

601 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Early Monmouth Results Give Rise to Optimism

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
OCEANPORT, N.J. -- On the type of chilly, overcast day that makes any outdoor activity a tough draw, hundreds of horse racing fans stood along the rail at Monmouth Park on Sunday, cheering on their picks or cursing their bad luck as their horses headed to defeat. There was nothing particularly special about the race, the $100,000 Spend A Buck Stakes, but it did not feel that way. Energy and excitement, often missing from a day at the typical racetrack, had returned to Monmouth Park.
 On Day 2 of Monmouth's Elite Summer Meet, considered by many in horse racing as one of the sport's boldest experiments, the crowd was big by modern racing standards (8,500), the betting dollars were pouring in and track management was elated that its plan to revive New Jersey racing was exceeding even its most optimistic projections. 
 ''To be up the kind of numbers that we are in this economy and with what's happening in racing around the country, it's just amazing,'' Bob Kulina, Monmouth's vice president and general manager, said after the seventh of the day's 11 races. ''Everywhere I go around here, there's excitement.''
 Faced with many of the problems that almost all tracks are dealing with, Monmouth decided to alter its meet drastically. The bulk of its available purse money has been dedicated to 50 days of racing during the summer meet on a three-days-a-week schedule. 
 By doing that and by slashing the total number of racing dates for the year to 93 from 141 last year, Monmouth is paying out an average of $1 million a day in purses, making its racing easily the richest in North America. The hope was that the purses would attract the type of high-quality racing with large fields that bettors and fans clamor for.
 Two days in, the experiment has been a success, track officials said. A total of $7,046,389 was wagered Sunday, an increase of 126 percent over the second day of last year's meet, when the track also ran 11 races. On Saturday, Monmouth's 2010 season kicked off with 17,903 fans on track and total wagering of $9,357,444, an improvement of more than $5.1 million over 2009.
 The purse dollars have led to larger fields. The 24 races run at Monmouth over the weekend averaged 9.62 starters per race. Over the same two days, Belmont Park averaged 7.45 starters.
 ''This weekend has been the first time in five years that I've enjoyed betting on Monmouth races,'' Lou Filosa, a fan from Ocean Township, N.J., said. ''I didn't even look at the races from another track. I hope it continues.''
 Monmouth's experiment has been well received by virtually everyone involved. Top jockeys like Garrett Gomez and John Velazquez have decided to ride here this year, and some of the sport's most powerful stables are running at Monmouth.
 The Spend A Buck was won by Ibboyee, who is trained by Todd Pletcher and was ridden by Velazquez. Pletcher and Velazquez have won the Eclipse Award, given each year to racing's outstanding jockey, trainer and horses.
 ''I hope what they're doing here works,'' said Stuart Sobotnick, a co-owner of Ibboyee. ''I would have hated to see Monmouth Park go away. We've always picked our spots here. I think Ibboyee would have run here no matter what because this was a stakes, but we have a horse in the next race. It's a $10,000 claimer with a $28,000 purse. We never would have run that horse here if not for that purse. Yes, I think we'll be running here more now than ever.''
 If the meet finishes a success, Monmouth's results are sure to be noticed and perhaps copied throughout an industry that has been searching for answers to its many problems.
 ''People are really interested in what we are doing here,'' Kulina said. ''It's still a business and we took a big leap hoping that handle would go up enough to justify what we're doing. We felt it was worth the gamble. After a day and a half, we're finding out that it was. This is something that could catch on elsewhere.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



602 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: How Equal Was This Separate School?

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
You could listen to a lot of dry lectures by a lot of windy history professors and still not learn as much about race issues in the century after the Civil War as you do in ''A Place Out of Time: The Bordentown School.'' 
 This hourlong film by Dave Davidson, Monday on PBS, seems on the surface to be a simple documentary: the history of an all-black school in Bordentown, N.J., that existed from 1886 to 1955. But by the time the story is told, you have come to see the school as a microcosm of all the good intentions, misguided theories and veiled prejudice that have made equality so elusive for so long. 
 The school was founded by a black minister, who wanted to create educational opportunities for youths as more and more blacks came north to escape the lack of economic possibility and murderous racism of the South. The school was successful enough that it was soon taken over by the State of New Jersey, but it remained all black -- not an overtly negative thing, as scholars and alumni explain.
 ''It was separated, not segregated,'' says Barbara Wheeler, a 1952 graduate. ''One group is voluntary, one group is forced.''
 Sounds like a laudable idea: establish a residential school where black educators could find employment and black youths could learn in a safe environment, free of the harassment by white students and teachers they might encounter at an integrated school. And Bordentown established itself as a model institution that emphasized discipline and personal responsibility.
 But the seemingly feel-good story is not so clear cut after all. Bordentown was for much of its history a vocational school; the formal name was the Manual Training and Industrial School for Colored Youth. And it reflected a view that was racist in its own way: Sure, it's great to educate blacks, as long as they're educated to be chauffeurs and laundresses. 
 School administrators who tried to make the curriculum more college preparatory met resistance. And the outbreak of World War II revealed just how antiquated the school had become: the students were still largely being trained for a 19th-century society and lacked skills in areas like electronics that the war required. Brown v. Board of Education in 1954 finally led to the school's closing, and it ended its days as a symbol of Jim Crowism. 
 But not to its students, whose personal recollections as they gather for a reunion are what give this documentary its bittersweet humanity. They seem to have nothing but good memories of this noble if somewhat flawed experiment. 
 A PLACE OUT OF TIME
 The Bordentown School
 On PBS stations on Monday night (check local listings).
 Directed by Dave Davidson; Mr. Davidson, producer; Amber Edwards, co-prouducer; Ruby Dee, narrator. Produced by Hudson West Productions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Lewis Hine photograph shows one student giving another a manicure at the Bordentown School in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEWIS HINE/PBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%)

COMPANY: EDWARDS CO INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3699 ELECTRICAL MACHINERY EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: A Place Out of Time: The Bordentown School (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



603 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Oberlin College Entrepreneurs Take On the T-Shirt

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Forget the standard college sweatshirt. 
 At Oberlin College, not many students wear college-logo clothes anyway. 
 But now, thanks to a seven-week entrepreneurship project, the college bookstore is about to offer quirky student-designed T-shirts and hooded sweatshirts better attuned to the Oberlin sensibility. 
 At least, they seemed to be last month at the fashion show where the student designs were shown off to a cheering audience and a panel of alumni experts, including Michael Alexin, Target's vice president for product design and development. 
 ''We wanted a 'Project Runway' kind of event, but of course Finney Chapel doesn't have a runway, so it was more a fashion show,'' said Andrea Kalyn, the associate dean for academic affairs and director of the project. ''We wanted to see which designs resonated most.''
 The winning designs, which will be sold at the campus bookstore just in time for commencement over Memorial Day weekend, are very Oberlin. One shows a red-eyed albino squirrel, a common sight on campus. One features a ''womb chair,'' a cushy, orange, orblike chair that decades of Oberlin library users have crawled into to read or nap. 
 ''I am completely excited to see my work bought and worn,'' said Karl Orozco, the freshman who designed the womb chair. 
 Mr. Orozco also designed another favorite: a view of the world as seen from the Oberlin campus in Ohio, along the lines of the famous New Yorker cover, with Cleveland, the Appalachians, New York and the Atlantic Ocean receding in the distance. Production of that shirt has been deferred until the fall, to give the students time to deal with any copyright issues arising from the takeoff. 
 Designing and choosing the images was only part of the process. 
 ''We didn't want it to end up being just a T-shirt competition; we wanted to wring as much entrepreneurial value out of it as we could,'' said Lauren Abendschein, Oberlin's assistant director for entrepreneurships. ''Beyond the design, the students had to figure out how to make a display, how to do the merchandising, how do we make it a brand?''
 About a dozen students from various classes and fields of study worked on the project, splitting into a marketing team and a design team. 
 ''Remember, Oberlin is a liberal arts college with no design department,'' said Mr. Alexin, who worked with the students throughout the process. ''This was a group of smart, passionate students majoring in neuroscience or math or music, plunging into design.''
 Apparel with a college logo has the highest profit margin of any merchandise in college bookstores, according to the National Association of College Stores. And Barnes & Noble, which runs more than 600 college bookstores, including Oberlin's, says that such clothes sell best at colleges with strong sports programs and team spirit. 
 But at a place like Oberlin, which prides itself more on eclecticism than athletics, the campus aesthetic is different. 
 ''We wear strange things, we're a peculiar little community,'' said Margot Hanley, a senior economics major on the marketing team. 
 ''Oberlin students don't really like to self-identify as one thing or another,'' she said. ''It's mostly only the athletes who buy apparel that says Oberlin, so there was clearly an omitted market for us to reach.''
 At the start, Ms. Hanley said, the students had far-ranging ideas -- maybe finding a local fabric producer in Cleveland, maybe producing a line of long dresses in sunset colors -- but the short turnaround time squashed those dreams for now. 
 Starting this month, the bookstore is offering the group's T-shirts for $15 and its organic cotton hoodies for $50. But the hope is for the project to expand next year. 
 ''I think it's such a cool idea that any student interested in fashion, marketing or business will be interested in getting involved,'' Ms. Hanley said. ''I still want to see long hemp dresses with cutouts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margot Hanley, a senior, and Karl Orozco, a freshman, with newly designed T-shirts meant to capture the Oberlin College sensibility. About a dozen students worked on the T-shirt project. The designs are available at the campus bookstore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (65%); COPYRIGHT (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



604 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2496 words

HEADLINE: Cuts to Child Care Subsidy Thwart More Job Seekers

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Able-bodied, outgoing and accustomed to working, Alexandria Wallace wants to earn a paycheck. But that requires someone to look after her 3-year-old daughter, and Ms. Wallace, a 22-year-old single mother, cannot afford child care. 
 Last month, she lost her job as a hair stylist after her improvised network of baby sitters frequently failed her, forcing her to miss shifts. She qualifies for a state-run subsidized child care program. But like many other states, Arizona has slashed that program over the last year, relegating Ms. Wallace's daughter, Alaya, to a waiting list of nearly 11,000 eligible children.
 Despite a substantial increase in federal support for subsidized child care, which has enabled some states to stave off cuts, others have trimmed support, and most have failed to keep pace with rising demand, according to poverty experts and federal officials. 
 That has left swelling numbers of low-income families struggling to reconcile the demands of work and parenting, just as they confront one of the toughest job markets in decades. 
 The cuts to subsidized child care challenge the central tenet of the welfare overhaul adopted in 1996, which imposed a five-year lifetime limit on cash assistance. Under the change, low-income parents were forced to give up welfare checks and instead seek paychecks, while being promised support -- not least, subsidized child care -- that would enable them to work. 
 Now, in this moment of painful budget cuts, with Arizona and more than a dozen other states placing children eligible for subsidized child care on waiting lists, only two kinds of families are reliably securing aid: those under the supervision of child protective services -- which looks after abuse and neglect cases -- and those receiving cash assistance.
 Ms. Wallace abhors the thought of going on cash assistance, a station she associates with lazy people who con the system. Yet this has become the only practical route toward child care. 
 So, on a recent afternoon, she waited in a crush of beleaguered people to submit the necessary paperwork. Her effort to avoid welfare through work has brought her to welfare's door. 
 ''It doesn't make sense to me,'' she says. ''I fall back to -- I can't say 'being a lowlife' -- but being like the typical person living off the government. That's not what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to use this as a backbone, so I can develop my own backbone.''
 As the American social safety net absorbs its greatest challenge since the Great Depression, state budget cuts are weakening crucial components. Subsidized child care -- financed by federal and state governments -- is a conspicuous example. 
 When President Clinton signed into law the changes he declared would ''end welfare as we know it,'' he vowed that those losing government checks would gain enough support to enable their transition to the workplace.
 ''We will protect the guarantees of health care, nutrition and child care, all of which are critical to helping families move from welfare to work,'' Mr. Clinton pledged in a radio address that year.
 Now, with the jobless rate hovering near double digits and 6.7 million people unemployed for six months or longer, some states are rolling back child care.
 ''We're really reneging on a commitment and a promise that we made to families,'' said Patty Siegel, executive director of the California Child Care Resource and Referral Network, an advocacy organization. ''You can't expect a family with young children to get on their feet and get jobs without child care.''
 As part of last year's package of spending measures aimed at stimulating the economy, the Obama administration added $2 billion for subsidized child care programs for 2009 and 2010, on top of the expected $5 billion a year. The administration has proposed a $1.6 billion increase for 2011. But even as this extra money has limited cuts and enabled some states to expand programs, officials acknowledge that it has not kept pace with the need.
 ''To say that we are in a difficult environment in terms of state budgets would be the understatement of the century,'' said Sharon Parrott, an adviser to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, which administers federal grants to states for child care. ''It's just not possible for the federal government to fill the entire hole, but the Recovery Act has provided critical help.''
 Even some architects of the mid-1990s welfare overhaul now assert that low-income families are being denied resources required to enable them to work.
 ''We're going the wrong way,'' said Ron Haskins, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who was a Republican Congressional aide and was instrumental in shaping welfare changes. ''The direction public policy should move is to provide more of these mothers with subsidies. To tell people that the only way they can get day care is to go on welfare defeats the purpose of the whole thing.''
 Here in Tucson -- a city of roughly 500,000 people, sprawling across a parched valley dotted by cactus -- Jamie Smith, a 23-year-old single mother, once had subsidized child care. That enabled her to work at Target, where she earned about $8 an hour. She paid $1.50 a day for her 3-year-old daughter, Wren, to stay at a child care center. The state picked up the rest. 
 She was aiming to resume college and then find a higher-paying job. But in December, she missed by a day the deadline to extend her subsidy. When she went to the state Department of Economic Security to submit new paperwork, she learned that all new applicants were landing on a waiting list.
 Ms. Smith sought help from Wren's father to look after their daughter. But he had his own job delivering pizza, limiting his availability. 
 ''Some days, I'd just have to call in sick,'' she said.
 By March, she had missed so many days that Target put her on a leave of absence, telling her to come back after securing stable child care, she said. 
 Without the state program, she sees no viable options. 
 She, too, is contemplating going on welfare.
 ''It's a blow to my own self-image and self-worth as a person who can take care of myself,'' she says. ''I'm totally able, physically and intellectually, to continue working. But I can't work without child care, and I can't afford child care without work.''
 A Major Cost
 In many low-income working families, child care is one of the largest expenditures after housing. Among families with working mothers and incomes below the poverty line -- $18,310 for a family of three -- child care absorbs nearly a third of total household budgets, according to census data. 
 Yet long before the recession assailed state budgets, subsidized child care was not reaching the vast majority of families in need. 
 In 2000, only one in seven children whose families met federal eligibility requirements received aid, according to an analysis by the Center for Law and Social Policy, which advocates for expanded programs. In 2003, the Bush administration found that in the smaller group of children eligible under more restrictive state criteria, only 30 percent received subsidized care.
 Until the Obama administration increased financing last year, federal support for subsidized child care had been steady for a decade. From 2001 to 2008, direct federal spending for subsidized child care through the Child Care and Development Fund -- the primary source -- nudged up to $5 billion a year, from about $4.6 billion, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. 
 During the same years, the number of children receiving subsidized child care under the program fell to 1.6 million in 2008, from an average of 1.8 million a month in 2001.
 Data for last year has yet to be compiled, but federal officials and poverty experts assume the number of families eligible for help has climbed, given broad cuts in working hours and other sources of income.
 At least nine states, including Illinois and Indiana, used increased federal aid through the stimulus package to begin offering child care support to parents looking for work. Thus they expanded the case loads of such programs or lengthened the duration of the benefits, according to data compiled by the National Women's Law Center, an advocacy group in Washington. 
 But at least nine other states, including Arizona, Michigan, Massachusetts and North Carolina, have cut access to subsidized child care programs or the amounts they pay.
 New Hampshire, Nevada and New Mexico resorted to waiting lists. Ohio reduced its income eligibility from twice the poverty line to 150 percent -- $33,075 annually for a family of four.
 ''The social safety net was always in patches, and now it's more frayed,'' said Helen Blank, director of leadership and public policy at the National Women's Law Center. ''For a single mom, it's a lottery in many states whether she gets child care or not.''
 This year, California altered its welfare reform program, cutting $215 million from child care financing given to counties and allowing families with young children to draw aid without looking for work. But it also means that those who want to pursue careers may effectively be consigned to the old welfare system, receiving monthly checks without support like child care.
 ''These women desperately want to be off cash aid,'' said Ms. Siegel, at the California Child Care Resource and Referral Network. ''That door has essentially been shut.''
 Last week, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger proposed scrapping California's entire welfare-to-work program, including child care and cash assistance, as the state grapples with a $19 billion budget shortfall -- an action that would eliminate aid for roughly a million children. 
 In Arizona last year, stimulus funds prevented budget cuts that would have eliminated care for 15,000 eligible children. But as the budget crisis has ground on, the state has added names of eligible children to the wait list, a term that social service agencies deride as a euphemism.
 ''It's really a turn-away list,'' says Bruce Liggett, executive director of the Arizona Child Care Association, a Phoenix-based advocacy group. ''The program has been shut down.''
 For Mr. Liggett, this amounts to a bitter turn. In the mid-1990s, he was a deputy director of the Arizona Department of Economic Security, where he helped put in place the new welfare-to-work program.
 ''We've seen devastating cuts,'' he says. ''For those families working to stay off welfare, we're denying help. Welfare reform in Arizona is certainly a broken promise.''
 Path to Welfare
 Alexandria Wallace grew up in a middle-class home topped by Spanish tile, with a swimming pool out back and a view of jagged reddish mountains. Her decline from work to welfare began in the spring of 2009.
 She was working three days a week at a call center for Verizon Wireless, earning about $9.50 an hour while attending beauty school at night to earn a license as a cosmetologist. She aimed to use earnings from that profession as a springboard to nursing school.
 Alaya was enrolled at a child care center, with a state subsidy, and Ms. Wallace was pleased with the girl's experiences there -- singing songs, learning to share. But when Ms. Wallace sent in the forms to extend the program, she received a rude surprise: a recent raise -- less than 50 cents an hour -- had bumped her above the income limit. 
 With no one to watch her daughter on a regular basis, she quit her job at the call center and began working at her mother's thrift store for $7.50 an hour while she finished beauty school. 
 Ms. Wallace reapplied for child care. Now she qualified, but she landed on the wait list.
 She shared a two-bedroom apartment with a couple and their 5-year-old daughter, and she sometimes paid them $25 to look after Alaya. But the woman worked, and the man seemed more interested in his PlayStation than the children, Ms. Wallace said. 
 ''I'd come home from work in the afternoon, and Alaya would still be in her pajamas,'' she said. ''It's so hard to find someone to really take care of your kid.''
 Her younger brother sometimes helped, but reluctantly and irregularly. 
 A classmate at beauty school offered to watch Alaya during the day. In exchange, Ms. Wallace took care of her friend's 18-month-old boy every evening.
 Her days tending to customers gave way to nights caring for a baby in a cramped apartment while cooking dinner and cleaning her house. Alaya was jealous and demanded extra attention. Ms. Wallace was perpetually exhausted.
 Still, this arrangement provided enough stability that Ms. Wallace began cutting hair at a nearby salon. Her first month, she brought home about $500. She felt confident her clientele would grow.
 Then, her friend canceled the swap, forcing Ms. Wallace to bring Alaya to the salon, where she tried to keep her occupied with cartoons in a back room.
 Soon her car broke down, forcing her to rely on family and the public bus to get to work, which did not always happen.
 Her boss had been kind, but patience wore thin.
 ''She was like, 'Your baby sitter bailed on you, your car broke down. What do you have left?' '' Ms. Wallace said. ''She said, 'If you can't get something worked out, I'm going to have to let you go.' ''
 Even after she lost that job, Ms. Wallace remained confident she could find another. 
 Then it dawned on her. Given the state of the social safety net, unemployment might provide the solution. She could qualify for cash assistance, which would require her to enroll in a state jobs program and would include help securing child care. 
 ''It's something I have to do to get where I need to go,'' she said.
 She plans to stay on cash assistance long enough to gain child care, then find another job. She would then lose cash assistance, but could hang onto child care as long as her income stayed below the eligibility limit.
 These were her thoughts as she stood in an airless office, amid the sounds of unhappy children in the arms of tired women, waiting to hand in the forms to receive welfare. 
 ''Oh no,'' she said, peeking inside a white envelope full of documents and spotting a brown smudge. ''My kid got chocolate on her birth certificate.''
 She ducked into the ladies room and dabbed the stain with wet paper towel. 
 When she stepped outside an hour later, beneath a pounding Arizona sun, $220 a month was headed her way. Her daughter was waiting at her parents' house. Her future -- a working car, a steady job -- was waiting out there, too, she told herself, though it had a way of coming in and out of focus.
 ''I'm just trying to get my life situated to where I can look beyond the day to day,'' she said. ''I hope it all falls together the way it all fell apart.''
 The New Poor: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the Great Recession. ONLINE: A slide show and previous articles in this series. nytimes.com/newpoor 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexandria Wallace has resorted to public assistance, unable to obtain care for her daughter, Alaya, while she works. (A1)
ALEXANDRIA WALLACE, 22
 JAMIE SMITH, 23 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (94%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PARENTING (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



605 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: The Old Enemies

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So here's how it is: They're as mad as hell, and they're not going to take this anymore. Am I talking about the Tea Partiers? No, I'm talking about the corporations.
 Much reporting on opposition to the Obama administration portrays it as a sort of populist uprising. Yet the antics of the socialism-and-death-panels crowd are only part of the story of anti-Obamaism, and arguably the less important part. If you really want to know what's going on, watch the corporations. 
 How can you do that? Follow the money -- donations by corporate political action committees.
 Look, for example, at the campaign contributions of commercial banks -- traditionally Republican-leaning, but only mildly so. So far this year, according to The Washington Post, 63 percent of spending by banks' corporate PACs has gone to Republicans, up from 53 percent last year. Securities and investment firms, traditionally Democratic-leaning, are now giving more money to Republicans. And oil and gas companies, always Republican-leaning, have gone all out, bestowing 76 percent of their largess on the G.O.P.
 These are extraordinary numbers given the normal tendency of corporate money to flow to the party in power. Corporate America, however, really, truly hates the current administration. Wall Street, for example, is in ''a state of bitter, seething, hysterical fury'' toward the president, writes John Heilemann of New York magazine. What's going on?
 One answer is taxes -- not so much on corporations themselves as on the people who run them. The Obama administration plans to raise tax rates on upper brackets back to Clinton-era levels. Furthermore, health reform will in part be paid for with surtaxes on high-income individuals. All this will amount to a significant financial hit to C.E.O.'s, investment bankers and other masters of the universe.
 Now, don't cry for these people: they'll still be doing extremely well, and by and large they'll be paying little more as a percentage of their income than they did in the 1990s. Yet the fact that the tax increases they're facing are reasonable doesn't stop them from being very, very angry.
 Nor are taxes the whole story.
 Many Obama supporters have been disappointed by what they see as the administration's mildness on regulatory issues -- its embrace of limited financial reform that doesn't break up the biggest banks, its support for offshore drilling, and so on. Yet corporate interests are balking at even modest changes from the permissiveness of the Bush era. 
 From the outside, this rage against regulation seems bizarre. I mean, what did they expect? The financial industry, in particular, ran wild under deregulation, eventually bringing on a crisis that has left 15 million Americans unemployed, and required large-scale taxpayer-financed bailouts to avoid an even worse outcome. Did Wall Street expect to emerge from all that without facing some new restrictions? Apparently it did.
 So what President Obama and his party now face isn't just, or even mainly, an opposition grounded in right-wing populism. For grass-roots anger is being channeled and exploited by corporate interests, which will be the big winners if the G.O.P. does well in November.
 If this sounds familiar, it should: it's the same formula the right has been using for a generation. Use identity politics to whip up the base; then, when the election is over, give priority to the concerns of your corporate donors. Run as the candidate of ''real Americans,'' not those soft-on-terror East coast liberals; then, once you've won, declare that you have a mandate to privatize Social Security. It comes as no surprise to learn that American Crossroads, a new organization whose goal is to deploy large amounts of corporate cash on behalf of Republican candidates, is the brainchild of none other than Karl Rove.
 But won't the grass-roots rebel at being used? Don't count on it. Last week Rand Paul, the Tea Party darling who is now the Republican nominee for senator from Kentucky, declared that the president's criticism of BP over the disastrous oil spill in the gulf is ''un-American,'' that ''sometimes accidents happen.'' The mood on the right may be populist, but it's a kind of populism that's remarkably sympathetic to big corporations. 
 So where does that leave the president and his party? Mr. Obama wanted to transcend partisanship. Instead, however, he finds himself very much in the position Franklin Roosevelt described in a famous 1936 speech, struggling with ''the old enemies of peace -- business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking, class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering.'' 
 And that's not necessarily a bad thing. Roosevelt turned corporate opposition into a badge of honor: ''I welcome their hatred,'' he declared. It's time for President Obama to find his inner F.D.R., and do the same. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); TAX LAW (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



606 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Prods China to Punish North Korea Over Warship

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Michael Wines contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The United States began pressing the Chinese on Sunday to back punitive measures against North Korea over strong evidence it had torpedoed a South Korean warship, but American officials acknowledged China's reluctance to discipline its isolated neighbor.
 Kicking off three days of high-level economic and security meetings here, the United States also sought to secure Chinese support for United Nations sanctions against Iran that would designate individuals and companies with ties to its nuclear and missile programs. 
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met over dinner with Dai Bingguo, a state councilor of China who oversees foreign affairs, and raised the South Korean government report that formally accused the North of torpedoing the ship, the Cheonan, in March, killing 46 sailors.
 ''We want them to take some steps in the international arena to underscore the seriousness of the matter,'' said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private meeting. But he added, ''We have to be realistic about what we can expect.''
 The Chinese government, the official said, was still digesting the findings of the investigation, which was aided by the United States and other countries. China has reacted with extreme caution, waiting for days to express sorrow to South Korea for the loss of the crew and expressing skepticism about North Korea's role.
 Mrs. Clinton shared information from the investigation with Mr. Dai, the official said. While he said the Chinese were receptive, they had yet to commit to concrete steps against the North. He said that the historic ties between the two countries would make that difficult.
 On Monday, South Korea announced that it was suspending nearly all trade with North Korea and seeking a Security Council resolution condemning the attack. China's support for such a resolution is viewed as critical because it holds a veto in the Council and because it exerts influence over North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il. 
 But in a sign of China's reluctance, the American official said the Chinese offered few details about Mr. Kim, even though he visited China by train only a few weeks ago and was met by President Hu Jintao.
 ''For China, they are in somewhat uncharted waters, for at least this generation of policy makers,'' said the official, who called the sinking an ''extraordinarily serious armistice violation.'' 
 On Iran, the United States is pushing to get China's support for amendments to a draft Security Council resolution that would impose a fourth set of sanctions on Tehran for its defiance of United Nations nuclear inspectors. Those amendments single out individuals and companies -- many affiliated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps -- with ties to the nuclear program.
 Last Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton announced that China had joined the United States, Russia, Britain, France and Germany in backing additional sanctions against Iran. But there are still unresolved issues relating to China's extensive investments in Iran's oil and gas industries.
 Mrs. Clinton, the official said, wanted to be ''clear about what our expectations are and how to make sure we get across the finish line.'' 
 Nearly 200 American officials have descended on Beijing. Mrs. Clinton is jointly leading the delegation with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who met on Sunday with Wang Qishan, the vice premier for economic policy.
 Mr. Geithner plans to press China to drop trade barriers and to shift its economy toward domestic consumption, which the United States says is important for evening trade imbalances. On the latter score, he said Sunday that China was making strides. ''It looks as if there has been a durable shift towards domestic consumption in China,'' he said.
 Mrs. Clinton did her part to pitch American exports on Sunday, visiting a Boeing maintenance facility in Shanghai to urge China to open its markets and protect intellectual property. 
 ''American companies want to compete in China,'' she said. ''They want to sell goods made by American workers to Chinese consumers with rising incomes and increasing demand.''
 To do that, she said, the United States needs a ''level playing field where domestic and international companies can compete freely and openly.'' Without singling out China, she called for transparency in rule-making, greater market access for foreign companies and non-discrimination against foreign companies in government contracts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); VETO (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); TRAINS (65%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HU JINTAO (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



607 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Networks Aim for the Familiar in New Batch of Shows

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
JUST as what people eat can be divided into basic food groups, so, too, can television programming. Among the staples of the schedule are shows about police officers, lawyers, doctors and spies, along with series about friends, couples and friendly couples.
 As Madison Avenue agencies look over the menus, er, lineups for the new season, which the big networks showcased last week during the upfront presentations, they see a steady diet of series in mainstream genres offered for 2010-11. 
 ''Right now, they're all blending together, like when different flavors of ice cream melt,'' said Shari Anne Brill, a longtime media industry analyst. ''Maybe once I see the pilots I'll be able to distinguish them.''
 But familiarity may just be the right approach, executives say, because during a time of economic uncertainty consumers and advertisers seem to crave the entertainment equivalent of comfort food. 
 ''It kind of feels we're back to 1998 again,'' said Bill Koenigsberg, president and chief executive at Horizon Media in New York. ''Are we going to be overcopped and overlawyered?''
 Among the new crime and police series are ''Detroit 1-8-7'' on ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company; ''Blue Bloods'' and ''Hawaii Five-O'' on CBS, a unit of the CBS Corporation; ''The Good Guys'' and ''Ride-Along'' on Fox Broadcasting, owned by the News Corporation; and ''The Cape,'' ''Chase'' and ''Law & Order: Los Angeles'' on NBC, part of the NBC Universal division of General Electric.
 The new legal eagles will include ''The Whole Truth'' on ABC, ''The Defenders'' on CBS, and ''Harry's Law'' and ''Outlaw'' on NBC. The actors who are not doctors but will play them on TV will appear on new series like ''Body of Proof'' and ''Off the Map'' on ABC.
 Among the new shows about spies and espionage are ''Nikita'' on CW, owned by CBS and Time Warner; and ''The Event'' and ''Undercovers'' on NBC. And the list of new comedies centered on relationships includes ''Better Together'' and ''Happy Endings'' on ABC; ''Mike & Molly'' on CBS; ''Mixed Signals'' and ''Running Wilde'' on Fox; and ''Friends With Benefits,'' ''Love Bites'' and ''Perfect Couples'' on NBC.
 ''Programming tends to run in cycles,'' said Steve Sternberg, a media analyst who writes a blog, The Sternberg Report.
 ''The networks and studios see the success of 'The Good Wife' on CBS, which is kind of a lawyer show, and 'Castle' on ABC, which is kind of a cop show, and they say, 'Let's go back to cops and lawyers,' '' he wrote in an e-mail message, referring to two current series that will return next season.
 On some nights, Mr. Sternberg said, shows in the same or similar veins are scheduled to duel for attention. He pointed to 10 p.m. on Monday, when ''Castle,'' ''Chase'' and ''Hawaii Five-O'' will compete, and 10 p.m. on Wednesday, when ''The Defenders,'' ''The Whole Truth'' and ''Law & Order: L.A.'' will face off.
 The most competitive time slot of the new season, Mr. Sternberg predicted, would be 8 to 9 p.m. on Thursday. The battle is being ratcheted up substantially because CBS is moving ''The Big Bang Theory'' -- the highest-rated sitcom among adults ages 18 to 49, which is the audience advertisers consider the most desirable -- to 8 p.m. on Thursday from 9:30 p.m. on Monday.
 ''Big Bang'' will be teamed up with a new sitcom featuring the TV mainstay William Shatner, ''$#*! My Dad Says.'' It is the first time CBS will offer sitcoms in that hour since 1965-66, said Marc Berman, television analyst for the trade publication Mediaweek, when ''Gilligan's Island'' was followed by ''My Three Sons.'' 
 The two CBS comedies will confront a new series on ABC, ''My Generation,'' about friends who reunite a decade after high school, and returning shows: ''The Vampire Diaries'' on CW, ''Bones'' on Fox and a pair of sitcoms, ''Community'' and ''30 Rock,'' on NBC. 
 ''CBS is making a big move,'' said Maureen Bosetti, executive vice president and national broadcast director at Optimedia U.S. in New York, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe.
 ''Thursday is always competitive,'' she added, because the networks tend to present prominent shows that night to woo advertisers like movie studios, retailers and automakers seeking to reach consumers who are planning their weekend.
 ''There was a lot of strong content'' in the upfront presentations, Ms. Bosetti said, on nights like Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, as well as Thursday. She described herself as ''encouraged'' about Friday -- when newcomers like ''Blue Bloods,'' ''Body of Proof'' and ''Outlaw'' are scheduled -- because there had been fears the networks would cut back on original programs that night in response to a recent decline in Friday ratings.
 Peter Gardiner, partner and chief media officer at Deutsch in New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said that ''resurgence in investing behind programming'' is significant.
 ''It shows confidence from the networks, which realize that great shows are watched by lots of people,'' he added.
 ''NBC set the tone'' last Monday, the first day of upfront week, Mr. Gardiner said, by introducing a slate of series produced by ''every big name in the business,'' including J. J. Abrams, with ''Undercovers''; Jerry Bruckheimer, with ''Chase''; and David E. Kelley, with ''Harry's Law.''
 ''It was 180 degrees from last year,'' he added, when NBC replaced all its 10 p.m. programs Monday through Friday with ''The Jay Leno Show.''
 Like Ms. Brill, the other executives said they preferred to watch initial episodes of the new series before passing judgment on which might be hits or flops.
 ''I wish I had a crystal ball,'' Mr. Koenigsberg said. That said, he added that the CBS sitcom ''Mike & Molly,'' at 9:30 p.m. on Monday, ''looks like a breakout hit'' because it is from Chuck Lorre, the creator of ''Big Bang'' and ''Two and a Half Men,'' which it will follow on the schedule.
 Ms. Bosetti said she looked forward to some ''high-action'' shows with ''movie quality,'' like ''The Event,'' at 9 p.m. Monday on NBC, and ''Nikita,'' at 9 p.m. Thursday on CW. Ms. Brill echoed her mention of ''Nikita,'' adding, ''I like to see things explode.''
 Several executives said it was an ominous sign for ''The Good Guys,'' which Fox has scheduled for 9 p.m. on Friday, that the first episode in its spring and summer run finished fourth in its time period in its debut on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Blue Bloods'' is a police drama planned for CBS, with Tom Selleck, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER WINES/CBS)
''Hawaii Five-O,'' a remake of a classic from decades past, is another of the familiar, police-themed shows planned for fall. It, too, will appear on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO PEREZ/CBS)
 Among the shows related to espionage will be ''The Event,'' on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LUBIN/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ICE CREAM (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (55%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); CBS CORP (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (67%); NEWS CORP (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (67%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (67%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Detroit 1-8-7 (TV Program); Blue Bloods (TV Program); Hawaii Five-O (TV Program); The Good Guys (TV Program); Ride-Along (TV Program); Chase (TV Program); The Cape (TV Program); Law & Order: Los Angeles (TV Program); The Defenders (TV Program); The Whole Truth (TV Program); Outlaw (TV Program); Harry's Law (TV Program); ''Body of Proof (TV Program); Off the Map (TV Program); Nikita (TV Program); The Event (TV Program); Undercovers (TV Program); Better Together (TV Program); Happy Endings (TV Program); Mike & Molly (TV Program); Mixed Signals (TV Program); Running Wilde (TV Program); Friends With Benefits (TV Program); Love Bites (TV Program); Perfect Couples (TV Program); $#*! My Dad Says (TV Program); My Generation (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



608 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, a Tea Party Target

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, has a vision of how the foreboding national political environment might evolve to his party's advantage.
 The old debate, in Mr. Emanuel's telling, pitted Big Government against Small Government. Republicans won it in 1980 when Ronald Reagan shattered the Democratic coalition that produced the New Deal and the Great Society.
 Then Bill Clinton set out, through budget balancing and governmental reform and a welfare overhaul, to give Democrats a reputation for effective, efficient government. That helped his party compete with the Republicans' small-government mantra. 
 President Obama aims to extend Mr. Clinton's achievement. But now, Mr. Emanuel argues, the energy of the Tea Party movement is pulling Republicans from small-government toward no-government responses to the nation's problems. ''If it's efficient government versus no government,'' he said, ''we win.''
 Mr. Emanuel's formulation contains some wishful thinking. But it also points toward the broader significance of Rand Paul's victory in the Kentucky Republican Senate primary.
 Whether or not Mr. Paul can hold the seat of Senator Jim Bunning, a Republican who is retiring, the philosophy he calls ''constitutional conservatism'' resembles as closely as can be found in a candidate for federal office the no-government stance Mr. Emanuel wants to take on. That is why, as much as the diffuse dialogue of midterm elections will allow, Democrats will try to make Mr. Paul the face of the opposition. 
 Plenty of Skepticism
 The Democratic argument that Republicans are embracing antigovernment extremism begins with their unremitting opposition since Mr. Obama took office amid an economic crisis.
 Aside from fighting the administration's stimulus package, the minority in Congress battled a health care proposal modeled significantly on recent Republican plans.
 The argument uses the Tea Party's philosophy and tone to cast that opposition in a harsh light. In a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, 53 percent of Tea Party adherents characterized their attitude toward Washington as ''angry,'' compared with 19 percent for the country as a whole.
 Mr. Paul brings the argument into sharper focus. Not only is he a Tea Party champion, but he also comes to politics from a libertarian tradition with thoroughgoing skepticism toward government and modest national support.
 In a 2006 study, the Pew Research Center found that libertarians took small-government stances on economic issues, separating themselves from Democrats, but permissive stances on social issues, setting themselves apart from Republicans. They made up 9 percent of the population. Mr. Paul's father, Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, drew fewer than 500,000 votes as the Libertarian Party's 1988 presidential nominee.
 That was the backdrop for Mr. Paul's criticism of using federal power even for worthy-sounding goals like civil rights - and the backlash it provoked from fellow Republicans.
 Democrats see more opportunity in attacking the Tea Party right's stance toward programs that, however pricey, have built durable constituencies. In the Times/CBS poll, Tea Party enthusiasts expressed more support than other Americans for cuts in Social Security, Medicare, education and defense.
 Most voters object to government ''when it's not helping them,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''The Achilles' heel of the antigovernment people is Medicare and Social Security.''
 Little Regulation
 The Achilles' heel for Democrats is the political zeitgeist of 2010. Costly stimulus and health care bills make it hard to argue that the Obama administration is making government leaner; now the specter of an untamed oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico clouds the argument for effective government, too.
 ''On the left, the argument is between folks who want big government and folks who want bigger government,'' said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, who leads the Senate Republicans' campaign committee.
 Kentucky's Democratic Senate nominee, Jack Conway, acknowledged that Mr. Paul was ''tapping into the frustration and the anger that's out there over jobs and government spending.''
 Mr. Paul moved to quell one controversy last week by expressing support for civil rights legislation. But he opened a new one, over government's relationship with private enterprise, by questioning Mr. Obama's criticism of BP over the oil spill.
 ''He seems to think government has no role whatsoever in the regulation of business,'' Mr. Conway said. That is one realm in which government activism has gained popularity lately, as Congress has shown in moving ahead with new regulations for Wall Street.
 Little wonder that top Republicans, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, opposed Mr. Paul's nomination. ''When you're Rand Paul, it's a high-wire act,'' Mr. Cornyn said.
 He expressed hope that the political newcomer would temper his philosophy ''with a dose of pragmatism.'' In the meantime, Mr. Cornyn added, Mr. Paul's decision to withdraw from a television interview this weekend was ''a wise one.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rand Paul, symbol of opposition for Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (91%); BILL CLINTON (88%); RON PAUL (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RAND PAUL (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIM BUNNING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



609 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Limbaugh, Somewhat Airbrushed

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
RUSH LIMBAUGH 
 An Army of One 
 By Zev Chafets 
 Illustrated. 229 pages. Sentinel. $25.95. 
 In July 2008 The New York Times Magazine published Zev Chafets's appreciative profile of a surprisingly candid Rush Limbaugh. There was spontaneity to the piece, perhaps because it had come about only by accident, after Mr. Chafets's original assignment to write about John McCain (and interview Mr. Limbaugh in the process) fell through. And there was an overriding idea that still holds true: The only way to form a fair opinion about Mr. Limbaugh is to listen to him directly. His pronouncements are distorted and yanked out of context by acolytes and enemies alike. 
 The article traced Mr. Limbaugh's background, visited his lair in Palm Beach, Fla., described the impact of his weekday AM radio show on the 2008 presidential campaign and generally captured the heat of the moment. Asked whether any of his thunder had been stolen by Sean Hannity, his fellow talk-radio apoplectic, who was exceptionally aggressive in harping on Barack's Obama's connections with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Mr. Limbaugh at first loftily dismissed the idea that he had any competitors. ''Things only take off when I mention them,'' he told Mr. Chafets. ''That is the point.'' When Mr. Chafets continued to press the idea of a rivalry, Mr. Limbaugh lost patience. ''Write what you want,'' he snappishly replied.
 A funny thing happened to Mr. Chafets's reporting on its way to the bookshelf: It got declawed. The ticklish parts (like that touchiness about Mr. Hannity) vanished. It appears that the price of access to Mr. Limbaugh for ''Rush Limbaugh: An Army of One'' has been the purging of any details that might pique him. Quotations are truncated in ways that make them softer, and the boosterism has been boosted. (How much of a cheerleader is Mr. Chafets? ''Republican success in 2010 can be boiled down to two words: Rush Limbaugh,'' he wrote in an Op-Ed article in the Times on Thursday.) 
 In his short, skimpy book Mr. Chafets seems also to have lost his enthusiasm for asking tough questions, digging for facts (his sales and listenership numbers for Mr. Limbaugh's books and programs come from Cigar Aficionado magazine) and having opinions that fall short of gushing enthusiasm. Anyone wanting to ascribe these qualities to adroit editing should know that even the name of one of Mr. Limbaugh's wives is misspelled here, as are Hugh Hefner's and Phyllis Schlafly's, and that Newt Gingrich's ''Contract With America'' was not his ''Contract for America,'' as it is called here. As for Mr. Chafets's willing playbacks of even the loopiest Limbaugh reasoning, Mr. Chafets speaks for both of them when he says, ''Sometimes you don't want to let logic stand in the way of a good line.'' 
 Mr. Chafets shoos unwanted facts and individuals out of the way relentlessly, in accordance with what seems like a case of Stockholm syndrome. He devotes little or no space to the Tea Party movement (it gets two pages), Sarah Palin (he calls her a lifelong Limbaugh fan and says that her best lines are borrowed from him) or even President George W. Bush (''Whatever happened to him, anyway?'' Mr. Chafets asks). Glenn Beck? Who he? 
 One way Mr. Chafets accentuates the positive is through casual use of the toxic subordinate clause. (''If Limbaugh was the winner of the 1994 election. ...'' ''Bush-era spending and fiscal policies may have done serious damage to the economy -- Limbaugh really doesn't dispute that -- but. ...'') Sometimes he even invokes a Clinton, as in ''even Bill Clinton...,'' to keep Mr. Limbaugh from sounding like the lonely warrior of the title. 
 The viewpoint of any article, book or broadcast about Mr. Limbaugh (who, for all his success and ostensible star status does not seem able to hear enough about himself) is often revealed by the photo or video used to illustrate it. If he is bulky, dressed in black and waving his arms like a whirlybird at the 2008 Conservative Political Action Conference, chances are that he will be ridiculed in the accompanying text. ''An Army of One'' presents a much more flattering portrait on its cover, which would seem to indicate partisan energy, but the actual book is on the tame side. Neither the Limbaugh fan nor the Limbaugh rubbernecker is apt to find anything new here. 
 Mr. Chafets variously replays his subject's most controversial pronouncements (e.g., Mr. Limbaugh's saying that he wanted President Obama to fail), plays them down (Mr. Limbaugh's drug case and visits to rehab could not be mentioned more fleetingly) or dodges them glaringly. About the photos of American soldiers and Iraqi prisoners that emerged from Abu Ghraib, the book says only this: ''Rush dismissed them as examples of high-spirited bad behavior akin to hazing at a college frat house.'' 
 Mr. Chafets might well have explored the zero-sum reasoning on which Mr. Limbaugh often relies. How smart is Mr. Limbaugh? Smart enough to dumb down his attitudes into the absolutes favored by high school debating societies (Climate change: truth or lie?) because more reasonable constructions don't suit his purposes. Perhaps he is at heart a polemicist, not a politician. However, ''as polemicists since Cato the Elder have known, moderation doesn't draw a crowd,'' Mr. Chafets points out in one of the brief, glancing insights that pass for serious analysis here. 
 Mr. Chafets might also have tried harder to fathom Mr. Limbaugh's attitudes about race and gender, since they may matter as he tosses thunderbolts during the 2012 election cycle. By far the book's most original thought is that Oprah Winfrey and Mr. Limbaugh are inverse versions of each other, from their showy affluence to their huge popularity to their polarizing effects on audiences. 
 According to Mr. Chafets they each draw audiences that split 72 percent to 28 percent by gender, both are cultural and political figures as well as entertainers, and both ''use their personal stories and travails to forge emotional bonds with their listeners.'' Given the overall sanitizing of ''An Army of One,'' it's astonishing that such a mutually unflattering comparison managed to see the light of day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Zev Chafets (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (94%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



610 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Republicans See Big Chance, But Worry About Wasting It

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and CARL HULSE; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republicans remain confident of making big gains in the fall elections, but as the midterm campaign begins in earnest, they face a series of challenges that could keep the party from fully capitalizing on an electorate clamoring for change in Washington.
 There are growing concerns among Republicans about the party's get-out-the-vote operation and whether it can translate their advantage over Democrats in grass-roots enthusiasm into turnout on Election Day. They are also still trying to get a fix on how to run against President Obama, who, polls suggest, remains relatively well-liked by voters, even as support for his agenda has waned. 
 Republicans are working to find a balance between simply running against Democrats and promoting a specific alternative agenda. And they are struggling with how to integrate the passions of the Tea Party movement -- with its anti-government ideology, anti-incumbent bent and often-rough political edges -- into the Republican Party apparatus.
 This week, House Republicans are beginning a program they call ''America Speaking Out.'' Their message is that lawmakers will be listening to their supporters over the summer, not simply dictating an agenda. In the fall, Republican leaders said, they plan to turn the ideas into specific policy proposals for the next Congress. 
 A series of events last week prompted a re-examination among Republicans of where the party stands less than six months before the midterm elections. In Pennsylvania, a Republican House candidate, Tim Burns, lost a special election by 8 points in a swing district of the sort the party needs to capture to have a shot of regaining the majority. And in a Republican primary for a Senate seat from Kentucky, Rand Paul, a leading emblem of the Tea Party, won a commanding victory.
 ''Democrats still need to be really worried,'' said Joe Gaylord, a Republican strategist who helped guide the party's sweeping Congressional victories in 1994. ''But there has to be a message that we are for something, and that if you elect Republicans, there will be some change.'' 
 For much of the first 16 months of the Obama administration, Republicans have unified around an opposition to the president's agenda, trying to stop nearly every proposal. But that allowed Democrats to brand their rivals as obstructionists who were unwilling to compromise, setting off second-guessing among Republicans about whether they needed to do more. As the fall election comes into sharper view, the party faces the burden of introducing plans that appeal to its base without alienating independent voters.
 Republicans continue to have much in their favor, and over all appear to be in a stronger position than Democrats. They continue to benefit from a widespread sense among voters that government has gotten too expansive, with Mr. Obama's health care bill as Exhibit A. The economic recovery remains tepid, with unemployment still high.
 Republicans raised more money than Democrats last month, a reflection of the optimism about the potential for gains in November among the party's contributors. And the party did pick up a House seat in Hawaii on Saturday in a special election in a district that is heavily Democratic -- two rival Democrats split their party's vote -- but Democrats expressed confidence they would win the seat back in November.
 While Democrats also face challenges motivating their base this year, the Democratic margin of victory in the House race in Pennsylvania suggests that the party may enjoy organizational capabilities that Republicans do not. 
 Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, has said that anything short of taking back the House would be a failure. And since the setback in Pennsylvania last week, there has been decided concern in Republican circles that perhaps they were too optimistic.
 ''You've got a country that is in a surly mood and is skeptical of incumbents generally,'' said Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota. ''But some people have put the expectations so high, even if Republicans do reasonably well this fall, it could look like we haven't done as well as we should have.'' 
 The defeat in Pennsylvania not only helped alter the perception of the battle for control of Congress, but also prompted a review of how effective Mr. Sessions's committee has been executing its on-the-ground campaign efforts.
 ''There is going to be a holistic assessment of what went wrong in the race and what we can learn from it,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 Republican. ''We have to face the fact that these are going to be very tough races.''
 Thomas M. Reynolds, the former New York congressman who headed the Republican campaign operation in 2004 and 2006, said the party needed to better balance local issues with appeals that take into account the national climate.
 ''We still have an angry electorate that both Democrats and Republicans face,'' Mr. Reynolds said, ''and our candidates need to talk about what matters at home and what they are going to do about it from an unpopular Washington.''
 In the House, Republicans must capture 40 additional seats to win control from Democrats. In the Senate, strategists on both sides believe the prospects of Republicans winning 10 seats to take control remain slim.
 ''The one thing that hasn't changed is, the Republican Party brand is still pretty weak,'' said Phil Musser, a Republican strategist. ''We need an overhaul, and there is a big opportunity to rebrand around a few unifying themes besides just opposition to Obama.''
 As many primary elections give way to the fall campaign, Republicans face a host of broader, thematic questions.
 Should the party, for example, seek to nationalize the election? Should it direct candidates to demonize Mr. Obama or Speaker Nancy Pelosi the way Democrats demonized former President George W. Bush in 2006, or the way some Tea Party leaders are demonizing Mr. Obama? Will the legislative achievements of Democrats in recent months -- the health care measure and presumably a financial regulation bill -- permit Democrats to argue that Washington can get something done, or will the substance of the legislation provide a target for those who argue against the expansion of government?
 Some Republicans say they cannot win races by focusing on Democratic leaders, an approach that failed for Republicans in the Pennsylvania race as it did for them nationally in 2008. ''It didn't work then and it isn't working now,'' said Representative Mike Simpson, Republican of Idaho.
 Rob Jesmer, the executive director of the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee, said he thought that given Mr. Obama's popularity, it was critical for Senate candidates to run against the Democratic agenda, rather than just Mr. Obama himself.
 At the same time, there is also increasing pressure on Republicans to come up with some sort of governing agenda to offer Americans an idea of what they would do should they win control of Congress, echoing what Republicans did in 1994 through the ''Contract With America.'' 
 But some party officials are wary of such an approach, saying it would allow Democrats to turn attention away from attacks on their own stewardship of Congress. A compromise was reached through the ''America Speaking Out'' tour, which is set to begin Tuesday.
 ''It's a remarkable situation, given where things were a year ago, where Republicans clearly have an opportunity to do really well,'' said David Winston, a Republican pollster who concentrates on Congressional races. ''The door is open in terms of potential. But we have to answer the question, Why us?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Djou, a Republican, won a special election for a House seat from Hawaii on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE TANNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ''Some people have put the expectations so high,'' said Gov. Tim Pawlenty. That means that even if Republicans do well in the midterm races, he said, they may still be seen as having failed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG WELLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RAND PAUL (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



611 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Wage Proposal for Workers at Subsidized Projects May Prompt a Fight at City Hall

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
In what could set off a major City Hall battle, two City Council members from the Bronx plan to propose a bill on Tuesday that would guarantee wages of at least $10 an hour, nearly $3 above the minimum wage, to all workers at development projects receiving public subsidies. 
 The bill is likely to draw strong opposition from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who vigorously fought, and ultimately lost, a struggle last year over similar wage requirements at a mall that was planned to be built inside the city-owned Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. 
 The plans for a mall were defeated by the Council because Mr. Bloomberg and the developer refused to include pay rates higher than the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. 
 The Fair Wages for New Yorkers Act, as the bill is being called, would have wide-ranging implications for the largest development projects in New York, replacing agreements hammered out project by project with a broad standard intended to protect low-wage workers. It would affect only future projects, not projects that have already been approved. 
 Real estate groups typically oppose so-called living-wage requirements, arguing that they stifle development and hinder private investment. 
 Roughly 140 municipalities across the country have passed similar legislation, including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Santa Fe, N.M., said Robert Pollin, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has studied living wage issues.
 ''The idea is, where government subsidies are involved, the people who receive those subsidies should not be paying poverty-level wages,'' said Councilman G. Oliver Koppell, who is co-sponsoring the bill with Annabel Palma. 
 A variety of unions, community groups, policy advocates are planning a major push to rally support for the bill. They have scheduled a news conference for Tuesday morning on the steps of City Hall.
 The bill's fate will rest in large measure with the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who voted against the Armory project last year but whose office declined to comment on the wage bill. 
 The fight will feature many of the same faces that last year urged the Related Companies, the developer selected for the Kingsbridge Armory, to require that future tenants pay employees at least $10 an hour. Higher wages were warranted, they argued, because Related would have received more than $50 million in tax credits and exemptions. Related and Mr. Bloomberg refused, arguing that the wage requirement would make it difficult to attract tenants. 
 While the Kingsbridge Armory battle centered on wages at one project, the wage bill seeks to expand the debate to developments across the city that receive public subsidies worth more than $100,000, whether in discounted land sales, tax credits or other incentives. 
 The mandated wages will be $10 an hour with benefits, or $11.50 without. Wages would increase to keep up with inflation.
 The Bloomberg administration is likely to oppose the bill on the grounds that projects needing subsidies should not be burdened with extra wage requirements, and that in a stagnant economy, job creation should be paramount. 
 The Bloomberg administration and the city's Economic Development Corporation plan to commission a national study to examine how living wage laws have worked in other cities. Dr. Pollin, who has completed similar studies, said he found that businesses adjusted to the salary requirements by increasing productivity or raising prices slightly. 
 The bill's supporters view its introduction as a watershed moment.
 ''If you want charity, you have to be charitable,'' said Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president. ''If you want a public benefit to your project, then your project has to benefit the public. It's a simple equation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LIVING WAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); SALES TAX (64%); TAX LAW (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



612 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: New York State's Budget Deficit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your May 15 editorial ''Jobs for Albany's Do-Nothings'' suggests that another income tax surcharge on high earners is one way to help close New York State's $9.2 billion budget deficit and make the tax system fairer. 
 The state tried this approach last year and it didn't work. A tax surcharge on high earners has yielded $1 billion less in revenues than anticipated, resulting in an even bigger budget deficit.
 As for fairness, 1 percent of New York tax filers already pay 41 percent of all personal income taxes, while about one-third of filers pay no taxes at all. With the expiration of the Bush tax cuts, New York City residents in the higher brackets will fork over 52 percent of their income to the government next year. And if Washington approves taxing ''carried interest'' as ordinary income, the federal income tax burden on partners in hedge funds and private equity firms will immediately double.
 Does anyone really believe that high-income individuals will stick around New York for the 180 days a year required to establish residency when the tradeoff is turning over more than half their earnings to the public coffers?
 There is widespread support among business leaders for the plan put forward by Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch to restore fiscal discipline to the state budget process. This, together with a long-term commitment to economic growth, is the solution to our state budget problem. Taxing the rich sounds like a quick fix, but recent history shows that it doesn't work.
 Kathryn Wylde President and Chief Executive Partnership for New York City New York, May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



613 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Should We Tinker With Plant Genes?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Genetically Engineered Distortions,'' by Pamela C. Ronald and James E. McWilliams (Op-Ed, May 15), which says critics have ''demonized'' this technology needed to help people in the poorest countries:
 I think that there are many in the organic food movement who recognize that genetic engineering has a role to play in the future of food. But concerns about what it should be, and who should be making that decision, are valid. 
 I am all for nonprofit groups and university researchers working to alleviate starvation in the third world. I trust their motivations and scientific integrity. I have no such faith in agribusiness.
 Traditional small family farming, with natural fertilizers and crop rotation, should be the starting point for discussion, not viewed as some fringe agenda. Organic farmers are not wrong to want to hang on to the gains of thousands of years of agricultural learning, the benefits of biodiversity and foods' naturally adaptive systems.
 When a challenge arises that exceeds the limits of traditional farming, seeking solutions through genetics is appropriate.
 But large-scale monoculture farming inhibits the ability of small farmers to choose their own methods or crops. Entire regions become dependent on Roundup, Monsanto's pesticide for genetically engineered crops.
 I am not afraid of technology, but I am distrustful of the motivations of Monsanto and its ilk.
 Ross Outten Chicago, May 15, 2010
 The writer is a chef.
 To the Editor:
 Pamela C. Ronald and James E. McWilliams say that genetically engineered crops are a ''precise and safe technology'' and that ''engineered crops have harmed neither human health nor the environment.''
 The Supreme Court is expected to rule soon in Monsanto Co. v. Geertson Seed Farms, a case that addresses the ecological and economic problems caused by genetic contamination of crops.
 A decision favorable to Monsanto could lead to widespread contamination of organic alfalfa with engineered alfalfa, which could destroy the organic milk industry, which depends on alfalfa.
 Genetic contamination of heirloom and native plants -- along with farmers' growing dependence on corporate-controlled and engineered seed -- is leading to the rapid erosion of agricultural biodiversity, which is critical for adapting to climate change.
 The uncontrolled, unstable and irreversible genetic contamination of food systems for the benefit of corporations is neither safe nor precise.
 Dena Hoff Glendive, Mont., May 18, 2010
 The writer is a farmer and vice president of the National Family Farm Coalition. 
 To the Editor:
 The president of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, Cardinal Peter Turkson from Ghana, was interviewed recently in the Vatican newspaper and had this to say about genetically engineered crops:
 ''The discovery and introduction of 'genetically modified crops/seeds' as a solution to world hunger problems and famine is trailed by great anxiety and suspicion about its intentions. The growing of corn by an African peasant farmer from corn seeds that he has kept from the harvest of the previous year gives him more food security than growing a genetically modified seed, which may give a high yield, but over whose availability he has no control.''
 Cardinal Turkson has it right. The African farmer prefers to grow her own corn, not some foreign corporate import that denies real food security.
 Dave Andrews Senior Representative Food and Water Watch Washington, May 18, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Biotech companies have spent years developing seeds that, when used with toxic pesticides, produce strong yields -- at least for a few years. But these same companies have also spent years (and dollars) consolidating their control over the processed food we eat.
 I remember a time when the United States courts actually enforced laws to discourage monopolies. When I consider how corporate consolidation in agriculture has virtually stamped out small family farming in this country, I am outraged that a monopolistic food system gone global is being proposed to address food insecurity.
 I fear for the huge number of people in many African countries who will be helped right off their land and into poverty.
 Kathleen McNeely Washington, May 18, 2010
 The writer is the coordinator of the faith-economy-ecology project at the Maryknoll Office for Global Concerns.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON MAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); GENE FLOW (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); WRITERS (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); FAMILY FARMS (88%); MALNUTRITION (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); STARVATION (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (74%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); FAMINE (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); PESTICIDES (69%); RELIGION (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (84%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



614 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Mars, McLean, Va., consolidated the creative assignment for its Uncle Ben's line of rice products at BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. Spending worldwide was estimated at $60 million, of which $20 million to $25 million was spent for ads in the United States. The ads for the American market had been created by TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of Omnicom; the campaign, introduced in 2007, drew notice because it brought back the brand's namesake character, Uncle Ben, in a prominent role. The consolidation is the most recent of several at Mars, which is reassigning creative accounts on a worldwide basis among its four lead agencies: BBDO; TBWA; DDB Worldwide, another Omnicom agency; and SapientNitro.
 People 
 John Colasanti joined VSA Partners as partner and chief operating officer, a new post at VSA, which has offices in Chicago, Minneapolis and New York. He had most recently been chief executive and managing partner at Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Jeremy Gayton, general manager for the Toronto offices of Taxi, was promoted to president for Taxi's English-language Canadian operations. He succeeds Rob Guenette, who recently became chief executive at Taxi. Also, Durk Barnhill, general manager for the Taxi New York office, was promoted to president at Taxi New York. He succeeds Daniel Rabinowicz, who retired in August. 
 Anne Bologna joined Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago, as executive vice president and general manager of its New York office. She succeeds Jeff Johnson, who is leaving to pursue a career outside advertising as a consultant, author and psychologist. Ms. Bologna had most recently been a partner and chief executive at Toy New York, which was closed.
 Jonathan Bond joined Victors and Spoils, Boulder, Colo., a new agency, as a strategic partner and investor. He will advise the agency from New York while he continues working on coming business ventures. In February, Mr. Bond left Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, where he had been co-chairman; he and Richard Kirshenbaum founded the agency, under the name Kirshenbaum & Bond, in 1987.
 Walter Liss, president at the ABC-owned television stations group, part of the Disney-ABC Television Group of the Walt Disney Company, Burbank, Calif., is retiring after serving in the post since 1999. Rebecca Campbell, president and general manager at WABC-TV, New York, a post that Mr. Liss once held, will succeed him. 
 Miscellany
 Brunico Communications, Toronto, closed Boards magazine, which had covered the worldwide commercial production industry since 1999, and closed the print edition of Playback, a magazine that reported on Canadian broadcasting and interactive media. Playback will continue in an online version.
 The Publicis Groupe, Paris, acquired Resolute Communications, London, a health care consultancy. Financial terms were not disclosed. Resolute, which also has an office in New York, will be merged with the London office of Publicis Life Brands, part of Publicis Healthcare Communications, and be renamed Publicis Life Brands Resolute. Paul Blackburn and Anna Korving, the founders of Resolute, become joint managing directors at Publicis Life Brands Resolute.
 Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, won the Grand Prize Kelly award for outstanding magazine advertising from the Magazine Publishers of America. The award, the highest honor bestowed during the 2010 Kelly Awards ceremony, was for a campaign for Haagen-Dazs Five, a new line of ice cream. Goodby, Silverstein also won the Effectiveness Award for a magazine campaign for the introduction of the Hyundai Genesis coupe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (65%); NETWORK TELEVISION (65%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (96%); MARS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (81%); WALT DISNEY CO (81%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (72%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (52%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (96%); PUB (PAR) (83%); IPG (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (81%); MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



615 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note in Advertising

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Miriam Arias, publicity director at Syfy, part of the NBC Universal unit of General Electric, joined another NBC Universal unit, iVillage, as vice president for communications. She succeeds Lauren Meller, who left, the company said, to pursue other interests.
 Heidi Bayer joined Digital Zen Productions, New York, a new unit of Barker/DZP, as vice president for client relations. She had been executive producer at Ultrabland, New York.
 Markus Beige joined Luckie & Company, Birmingham, Ala., as design director. He has worked in countries like Australia and Germany on brands like Audi, Red Bull and T-Mobile. 
 Mark Cadman joined Publicis USA, part of the Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, as chief executive of the Seattle office. He succeeds Randy Browning, who left, the agency said, to pursue other career opportunities. Mr. Cadman had most recently been chief executive at the London office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas.
 Click Here, Dallas, part of the Richards Group, made principals of five staff members: Cort Gorman, James A. Hering, Cheryl Huckabay, John Keehler and Brian Linder.
 Fabiano Coura joined the new Sao Paulo, Brazil, office of R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as the head of planning. He had been digital planning and creative director at Insula Communicacao, Sao Paulo.
 G. Steven Dapper, chairman at Hawkeye, was elected chairman of the Direct Marketing Association, Washington, and Don McKenzie, chief executive at the Direct Group, was elected vice chairman of the association.
 Arthur Fullerton joined Zig, Toronto, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, director for technology. He had been director for technology at the Fuse Marketing Group, Toronto.
 Gibbs & Soell, New York, formed a public relations practice specializing in green technology and sustainability, to be led by Ron Loch, a senior vice president at the agency.
 Steevan Glover joined the London office of Vision Critical in a new post, European head of sales and marketing. He had been account division development and group account director at Blueprint Partners, London.
 Matthew Hoelter, a free-lance editor, won the $25,000 grand prize in a user-generated content contest, called the 10-Second Challenge, sponsored by Aflac. The contest sought video clips from consumers to describe Aflac and its products in 10 seconds. The public was invited to watch the entries online and vote for 10 finalists; a panel of judges named four winners including Mr. Hoelter, age 24, of Marina del Rey, Calif.
 Drew Ianni opened the Athena Partnership, New York, where he is chief executive. Athena plans to put on a conference and exposition named Appnation; the first one is scheduled for the Moscone Convention Center in San Francisco on Sept. 13 and 14. Mr. Ianna had most recently been event chairman and senior global analyst at Adtech, New York.
 Adam Kasper, senior vice president and director for digital at Media Contacts, part of Havas Digital, was named to lead a new unit of Havas Digital, Innova, as senior vice president and managing director for digital innovation. Havas Digital is part of Havas. Also, David Puner joined Innova as an innovations director, based in Boston; he previously worked on marketing and social media at Dunkin' Brands, Canton, Mass. And Sabine Cummins, account director at Media Contacts, becomes an innovations director at Innova, based in Chicago.
 KG Partners, Portland, Me., started a unit, the Retail Innovation Group, to be led by Tim Mathis as director for retail innovation.
 Eriks Krumins joined Furlined, Santa Monica, Calif., in a new post, vice president and executive producer, overseeing day-to-day operations of the commerical production company. He had been executive producer at Backyard Productions, Venice, Calif., and is a former member of the United States national water polo team.
 Jeff Jan, Mitch Lee and Suzanne Szostak joined Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco. Mr. Jan becomes communications strategy director, a new post; he had been associate media director at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore. Mr. Lee becomes head of communications strategy, succeeding Samantha Stuart, who is taking a break from advertising, the agency said, after the birth of her third child. Mr. Lee had been partner for integrated communications strategy at PERS, San Francisco. And Ms. Szostak becomes senior brand strategist, a new post; she had been advertising programs manager at the San Francisco office of YouTube and Google.
 David Kopp joined Healthline Networks, San Francisco, in a new post, senior vice president for network and advertising services. He had most recently been senior director for ad products at Yahoo.
 Marina Monsante joined La Comunidad, Miami, in a new post, director for creative services. She had been director for traffic services at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami.
 Tom Morrissy joined Synaptic Digital, New York, as executive vice president for North American sales. He assumes duties from Jack Serpa, senior vice president for client solutions, who left, the company said. Mr. Morrissy had most recently been running his own media and entertainment consulting company, Morrissy & Vine, and before that was publisher of OK and Entertainment Weekly magazines.
 Post Foods, a division of Ralcorp Holdings, St. Louis, and Six Flags Entertainment, New York, signed a cross-promotion agreement. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal includes an offer on 12 million boxes of Post cereal brands like Alpha-Bits and Cocoa Pebbles, which will carry free admission coupons for Six Flags theme parks that will be valid with paid adult admissions.
 Josh Rabinowitz, senior vice president for music at the Grey Group, New York, part of WPP, was named the inaugural music jury president for the 2010 London International Advertising Awards.
 Amy Saralegui, publisher at Los Angeles magazine, part of the Emmis Publishing unit of Emmis Communications, was named to two posts as part of a reorganization of Emmis Publishing. Ms. Saralegui will move to Austin, Tex., and become publisher of Texas Monthly magazine as well as group publisher for national sales at Emmis Publishing. Under the reorganization, several executives left the company, including April Hinkle, publisher of Texas Monthly, and Susie Love, executive vice president and director for sales and marketing.
 Derek Van den Bosch joined Blitz, Santa Monica, Calif., as vice president for delivery. He had been director for digital production at the Los Angeles office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.
 Shelly Weitz joined MicroMass Communications, Cary, N.C., as account director. She had been senior creative director at Creative Strategy, Chevy Chase, Md.
 Joseph Zhou joined Bird Bonette Stauderman China, Hong Kong, a new unit of Bird Bonette Stauderman Worldwide, Westport Conn., as president. He had been manager for advertising production at Procter & Gamble China, Guangzhou, part of the Procter & Gamble Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (63%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (92%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (90%); HAVAS SA (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS USA (71%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); GIBBS & SOELL (53%); AFLAC INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (92%); HAV (PAR) (85%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%); AFL (NYSE) (52%); 8686 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



616 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 STUDY FINDS DECLINES
 In Childhood Mortality
 According to a study by the Lancet, a medical journal, death rates in children under 5 are dropping in many countries at a surprisingly fast pace. The report is based on data from 187 countries from 1970 to 2010. PAGE A4 
 ANXIETY OVER ISRAELI DRILL
 As Israel embarked on a large-scale civil defense exercise, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sought to reassure Israelis and some jittery Arab neighbors that the nationwide drill was not meant to signal a deterioration in security or an imminent war. PAGE A10 
 ETHIOPIA HOLDS VOTE 
 Ethiopians went to the polls to choose a new Parliament, with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi's ruling party expected to sweep the vote and extend its 19-year rule, after a campaign marred by widespread complaints of harassment and intimidation of the opposition. PAGE A8 
 14 DIE IN SOMALI VIOLENCE
 At least 14 people were killed and more than 25 were wounded in heavy fighting between government troops and insurgents who attacked the presidential palace with mortars, witnesses and officials said. PAGE A8 
 UNREST IN JAMAICAN CAPITAL
 The Jamaican government declared a state of emergency in portions of Kingston, the capital, after supporters of a gang leader who is wanted in the United States on gun and drug charges attacked three police stations in an attempt to pressure the government to let him remain free, officials said. PAGE A8 
 PRIEST ARRESTED IN BRAZIL
 The authorities in Rio de Janeiro said that they had arrested Father Marcin Michael Strachanowski, a Polish priest, and charged him with sexually abusing a 16-year-old former altar boy. It is the third case of sexual abuse involving a priest in Brazil, which has the world's biggest Roman Catholic population, in the last two months. PAGE A8 
 DUCHESS CAUGHT IN STING
 The News of the World, a British tabloid, reported that Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York and the queen's former daughter-in-law, had accepted $40,000 in cash -- and a promise of about $717,000 more -- from a ''rich businessman'' (really a reporter in disguise) in return for pledging to introduce him to Prince Andrew, her former husband and Queen Elizabeth's second son. PAGE A10 
 CLERIC JUSTIFIES KILLINGS
 In a newly released video, Anwar al-Awlaki, the Muslim cleric believed to be an inspiration for a series of recent terrorism plots, justifies the mass killing of American civilians and taunts the authorities to come find him in Yemen. PAGE A10
 National
 STUDY POINTS TO PENALTIES 
 For Employer Health Plans
 About one-third of employers subject to major requirements of the new health law may face tax penalties because they offer health insurance that could be considered unaffordable to some employees, a new study says. PAGE A15 
 FRUSTRATION SPREADS ON SPILL
 Louisiana state and local officials continued to hammer BP and the federal agencies reacting to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on Sunday, repeatedly threatening to ''take matters into our own hands'' if the response fell short. PAGE A14 
 A TEA PARTY TARGET
 Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, has a vision of how the foreboding national political environment might evolve to his party's advantage: making Rand Paul, who won the Kentucky Republican Senate primary, the face of the opposition. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A15 
 SHORTAGE OF TRAFFIC PAINT
 A shortage of traffic striping paint has left road crews and transportation departments across the country without the materials they need to separate northbound and southbound traffic, and has threatened the completion of highway projects. PAGE A12 
 A HOME BASE IN WASILLA
 Even as Sarah Palin travels the country stirring up Tea Party apostles, poking at opponents and building a robust bank account through speaking fees, book royalties and television contracts, she comes home to Wasilla, Alaska, one of the more unlikely launching pads in politics -- and she apparently will not be pulling up stakes anytime soon. PAGE A12 
 New York
 LIVING-WAGE PROPOSAL 
 May Prompt City Hall Fight
 In what could set off a major City Hall battle, two City Council members from the Bronx plan to propose a bill on Tuesday that would guarantee wages of at least $10 an hour, nearly $3 above the minimum wage, to all workers at development projects receiving public subsidies. PAGE A20
 OFFICIAL CRITICIZES CANDIDATE
 A top Democratic Party official said that Richard Blumenthal, the attorney general of Connecticut, had ''clearly overstated'' the extent of his military service during the Vietnam War, a blunt assessment that came as Mr. Blumenthal is trying to recover from reports that he misrepresented his war record. PAGE A19 
 PARTY BOSSES WITH LESS CLOUT
 Few New Yorkers know the names of the Republican and Democratic county chairmen, and they are not the kingmakers they once were. But they may still play a pivotal role this week and next as the two parties gather at their state conventions to choose candidates for the elections this year. PAGE A19
 Metropolitan Diary A20
 Business
 SOCIAL NETWORKS CAPITALIZE 
 On Facebook Privacy Fears
 A handful of start-ups are eyeing the social networking industry with renewed interest, due in part from the recent scrutiny focused on Facebook over revisions to its platform and privacy policy that encourage its members to make personal information accessible to anyone on the Internet. PAGE B1
 A CROSSROADS FOR LIMEWIRE
 Mark Gorton, a successful Wall Street trader with a varied academic background, is not who comes to mind when the phrase ''Internet pirate'' is spoken. But two weeks ago, a federal judge ruled that he and the popular file-sharing service he created, LimeWire, were liable for copyright infringement and could be forced to pay up to $450 million in damages. PAGE B1
 A PRESS CORPS STAYS HOME
 For decades it was a given that whenever the president traveled, a chartered plane packed with members of the press would travel with him. But the press flights have been sharply curtailed in recent months, a result of cost-cutting by news organizations that are struggling to stay profitable. PAGE B1
 WORLD CUP'S TV ECONOMICS
 For television broadcasters preparing to cover the World Cup, by some measures the world's biggest sports event, the odds will be challenging. The World Cup is expected to provide them with a welcome increase in viewership and advertising. But the soaring price of TV rights means that few will actually make money from the event. PAGE B4
 Sports
 AS TOUR OF CALIFORNIA ENDS,
 Doping Controversy Lingers
 After four days of chaos in cycling, spurred by Floyd Landis's admission of doping and his allegations against other top riders, HTC-Columbia's Michael Rogers -- one of the few top riders that Landis did not implicate -- celebrated his victory at the Tour of California. PAGE D1
 N.F.L. MULLS RULES CHANGES
 Tuesday's N.F.L. owners' meeting in Dallas -- in which officials will decide whether to award the first open-air, cold-weather Super Bowl in history to New York and whether to erase the old sudden-death overtime rules from the game -- may provide the most obvious example yet that Commissioner Goodell doesn't want the most popular professional league in the United States to slip into complacency. PAGE D2
 Arts
 THAI FILMMAKER WINS 
 Palme d'Or at Cannes
 The 63rd Cannes Film Festival came to a close with the Palme d'Or going to the fantastical ''Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives,'' from the the filmmaker Apichatpong Weerasethakul, the first Thai film to win the award. PAGE C1
 Obituaries
 MARTIN GARDNER, 95
 He teased brains by creating math puzzles in Scientific American for a quarter-century, and indulged his own restless curiosity by writing more than 70 books on topics as diverse as magic, philosophy and the nuances of Alice in Wonderland. PAGE A23
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25
 ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A25
 Online
 ON THE BLOGS A recap of the finale of ''Lost'' on the ArtsBeat blog, with links to past coverage of the show and reaction to the end of the series from around the Web.
 nytimes.com/television

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (87%); BRITISH ROYALTY (85%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); POLICE FORCES (67%); BRITISH MONARCHS (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

PERSON: MELES ZENAWI (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); PRINCE ANDREW, DUKE OF YORK (50%); SARAH FERGUSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (76%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); BRAZIL (93%); JAMAICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); YEMEN (79%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010



617 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Rules Grow, Banks Stay Same Size

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Broadly speaking, there were two ways for the federal government to respond to the financial crisis: supersize regulation or downsize the financial industry.
 The Obama administration chose more regulation.
 The financial legislation passed by the Senate last week, largely built to specifications that the administration provided last summer, vastly increases the scope and sophistication of federal regulation. It grants more resources and more authority to those charged with overseeing the industry. It is hoped that this will produce better results.
 The bill does not, as some liberal Democrats and populist Republicans had advocated, require the breakup of conglomerated behemoths. It does not prohibit some of the most speculative genres of Wall Street trading. It does not reduce the vast menagerie of financial companies that compete with banks. 
 The few exceptions were late additions: the administration waited until January to embrace the Volcker Rule, prohibiting banks from engaging in proprietary trading or investing on the side. And in April, Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas added language that would curb the trading of derivatives, though the administration opposes that.
 The approach embraced by President Obama largely reflected the judgments of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the National Economic Council. They argued that the financial system was fundamentally sound, and that the problem was a lack of government.
 ''Our assessment was that the deepest problems seemed to be associated with failures of regulation, and that's why strengthening regulation is the approach that we chose to take,'' Mr. Summers said Friday in an interview.
 He emphasized that the legislation did not simply rely on an improved performance by regulators. It also creates larger margins for error and tries to give companies incentives to behave. Mr. Summers compared the approach to increasing highway safety through seat belt laws and guardrails, rather than relying on driver education.
 ''This is not a system that relies on people being smarter in the future,'' he said.
 It remains to be seen whether that approach will curb the excesses of an industry adept at navigating through regulation in the pursuit of profit. Already, some Wall Street executives are expressing relief, convinced that the bill won't fundamentally alter the way they operate.
 Prominent liberals outside Congress, including Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel-winning economist, warned that it made more sense to limit what companies could do than to keep building taller fences.
 ''I think it would be far better to break up these too-big-to-fail institutions and strongly restrict the activities in which they can be engaged than to try to control them,'' he told Congress last year.
 But in the Senate, that argument swayed only one Democrat, Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, to vote against the bill. ''The test for this legislation is a simple one -- whether it will prevent another financial crisis,'' he said. ''As the bill stands, it fails that test.'' 
 Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who shepherded the legislation through the Senate, said on Friday that improving regulation made more sense than restraining an industry that was critical to the American economy and that faced fierce competition from foreign banks, which would not be placed under similar restrictions. 
 ''I'd rather rely more on our ability to do that than to somehow try to shrink our capacity for this nation to lead in financial services,'' Mr. Dodd said.
 The bills the House and Senate have passed still need to be reconciled and then passed again, but the basic outline is clear. Federal regulation would grow from its historical focus on banks and public markets toward the sprawling outskirts of the modern financial industry, the largest such expansion since the Great Depression.
 Regulators would get a lot more money, a lot more information and a lot more power. A crucial example is a centerpiece of the bill, the creation of an agency to protect consumers from abuse by financial companies.
 Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard Law professor whose proposal for the agency was embraced by the president and included in the bill, said that the essence of her idea was the creation of a more nimble form of government.
 ''Congress passes a law, and over 15 to 20 years, the industry figures out how to get around it,'' she said. ''The consumer agency changes that. When the industry moves, the agency will move, too. That's a huge difference.'' 
 The authors of the legislation also knew that the fallibility of regulators was a major factor in the financial crisis, so the bill mandates much larger margins for error and creates incentives for banks to take fewer risks.
 ''It's a system that I think is based on humility about our ability to see into the future,'' said Michael S. Barr, an assistant Treasury secretary and Mr. Geithner's chief lieutenant on the regulatory legislation. ''It acknowledges that failures will occur, and it's designed to say when those failures do occur, there are more buffers in place.''
 For example, the bill requires most, but not all, derivatives to be backed by a third-party clearinghouse, adding a layer of insurance to the system. If either side fails to meet its obligations, the clearinghouse steps in.
 The success of the legislation still depends, however, on better performance by regulators.
 In particular, the administration waged a long and ultimately successful fight to maintain the Federal Reserve as the nation's central financial regulator. The legislation would significantly expand the Fed's powers and responsibilities.
 Mr. Dodd proposed last fall that the Fed instead be stripped of its regulatory responsibilities. He said in an interview that he still had misgivings about the administration's approach but that he had lost the argument.
 Administration officials said there was no viable alternative to the Fed. It was, in one of Mr. Geithner's favorite phrases, a case of ''plan beats no plan.''
 The real test of this legislation, of course, will be the next crisis. But several of the bills' architects also cited a more immediate benchmark: restoring faith in the financial system.
 Ms. Warren said that her grandmother lived through the Great Depression in the dust bowl of Oklahoma, and long afterward would say that the presidency of Franklin Delano Roosevelt could be summarized in two parts: he made it safe to put money in banks, and he did a lot of other good things.
 ''That's how I think of this, too,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence Summers, left, and Timothy Geithner influenced the president on the overhaul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Elizabeth Warren proposed a consumer protection agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA GOLDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (62%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); DRIVER EDUCATION (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



618 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: For North Korea Policy, China Prefers the Fence

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting, and Jing Zhang contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- In the best of times, Chinese foreign affairs scholars here say, Beijing grits its teeth while playing best friend to Kim Jong-il, North Korea's ailing and erratic 68-year-old leader. South Korea's charge last week that North Korea sank one of its warships, killing 46 crewmen, makes that role exponentially harder.
 With Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and about 200 other American officials here for high-level security and economic talks, Chinese leaders face two unpalatable options. One is to mollify North Korea, and risk undermining its efforts to convince the United States, South Korea and Japan that China is a stabilizing force in East Asia.
 The other is to join those nations and the United Nations Security Council in condemning North Korea for the attack, which North Korea denies, and risk a wholly unpredictable response from a volatile neighbor. 
 So far, China has sought to straddle the two, saying only that both Koreas should show restraint in the midst of a brewing crisis. But Mrs. Clinton, who has publicly cited ''overwhelming'' evidence that North Korea torpedoed the South Korean corvette, the Cheonan, is pressing Chinese officials to take an unequivocal stance. South Korea, which China has assiduously courted as a major trading partner and diplomatic friend, is making the same case.
 The sinking and its aftermath have reignited much the same debate that took place last year, after North Korea test-fired a long-range missile in April and conducted an underground nuclear test less than two months later. After balking at first, China eventually agreed to a unanimous Security Council resolution condemning the nuclear test and tightening existing sanctions.
 The United States, Japan and South Korea are uniting behind a similarly strong response this time. South Korea is expected to ask the Security Council on Monday to condemn the sinking of the 1,200-ton warship, which it says caused one of the largest losses of military personnel since the end of the Korean War. Mrs. Clinton is pushing Beijing to back the effort.
 ''The North Koreans will be more easily dissuaded from further attacks like this if they don't get cover from China, '' said Michael J. Green, an Asia specialist with the Center for International Studies in Washington. ''So it's absolutely critical to Korea and the United States that China send that signal.''
 But in discussions that began Sunday, China was resisting, and it has been skeptical of the claim that the North was responsible for sinking the ship. Scholars say such misgivings are typical when China is asked to side against North Korea.
 ''There's not much more that can be done to sanction North Korea,'' said Shen Jiru, a strategic studies expert at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing. ''China basically feels that sanctions or other tough measures only serve to escalate conflict with North Korea, and others tend to agree.''
 Still, a small but influential group of Chinese scholars insist that accommodating North Korea has not worked, and China needs to take a new and tougher tack.
 ''The Chinese government so far has done too much to protect North Korea,'' said Chu Shulong, a professor of international relations at Tsinghua University in Beijing. ''Why should we protect them? Why should we treat them so specially? I think China needs to change its approach.''
 Wei Zhijiang, a visiting Chinese scholar at the University of Tokyo who specializes in North Korea, said that if China decides not to support a Security Council resolution, it should push for some other punishment. ''Certainly North Korea must pay the price somehow,'' he said. ''Maybe apologize, pay compensation and promise this will not happen again.''
 China's reluctance to censure the North is not rooted in affection for its policies. In private discussions, one American analyst said Sunday, Chinese officials express frustration with North Korea's growing belligerence. But like their Washington counterparts, they say, they have no good option to deal with it.
 Officials here worry that more pressure on North Korea will prove counterproductive, and some recent history backs them: after China joined other nations last year in protesting the missile launch, Mr. Kim reacted by pulling out of the six-nation talks, chaired by China, aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program. This time, the North Korean government has threatened ''all-out war'' if it is punished for the Cheonan sinking.
 ''China remembers this lesson,'' said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. ''I think this time our leaders are a little bit afraid of Kim Jong-il.''
 China's other worry is strategic: if relations with the North sour because its leaders fear China is aligning with the West against it, China could face an unstable and now nuclear-armed adversary on its border. And if international pressure leads to the collapse of the North's government and eventually a unified, democratic Korea allied with the United States, China's power in the region would be weakened.
 A collapse could also unleash a flood of refugees across the Chinese border, a phenomenon China experienced in the mid-1990s when tens of thousands of North Koreans, if not more, fled widespread famine in their homeland.
 So Beijing has tried to support North Korea while gently edging it toward economic reform and nuclear disarmament. To keep the North's government afloat, China provides food, fuel and, by some estimates, 90 percent of North Korea's industrial goods.
 It also continues to invest there, positioning itself, some analysts say, for a post-Kim Jong-il period. In recent years, China has bought rights to several North Korean coal and mineral mines.
 In February, China and North Korea announced a deal to build a four-lane bridge across the Yalu River that marks the border. North Korea also recently agreed to lease its Rajin Port, giving inland northeast China long-sought access to the Sea of Japan.
 Yet despite North Korea's growing dependence on China, officials in Beijing complain that they have very little leverage over Mr. Kim's behavior. Mr. Wei, the China scholar at Tokyo University, said China considered it a victory when Mr. Kim agreed this month in Beijing to more communication and cooperation with China on regional and international issues.
 The past few weeks have shown just how awkward it can be for China to walk the line between courting the South and propping up the North. On April 27, as his nation's forensic investigation drew to a close, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea flew to Shanghai to try to persuade President Hu Jintao of China that North Korea had sunk the Cheonan and should be rebuked.
 The following week, President Hu hosted the reclusive Mr. Kim in Beijing. Some Chinese scholars said the visit, Mr. Kim's first to China in four years, showed their government's desire to keep trying to push the North in the right direction.
 But South Koreans saw it as a slap in the face to their president -- who one analyst said had asked President Hu to postpone or cancel the visit -- and a reassuring nod to North Korea at precisely the wrong time.
 This weekend, perhaps as a conciliatory gesture, China announced that Prime Minister Wen Jiabao would travel to Seoul, the South Korean capital, at the end of the month.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a picture caption in some editions on Monday with a news analysis article about an increased pressure on China to take sides in the Korea conflict while Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was visiting Beijing misidentified the Chinese official shown shaking hands with Mrs. Clinton. He is Wang Qishan, the vice premier -- not Dai Bingguo, state councilor for foreign affairs. (Mr. Dai is shown at Mr. Wang's left.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dai Bingguo, China's state councilor for foreign affairs, greeted Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton Monday in Beijing. (POOL PHOTO BY SAUL LOEB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); KOREAN WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); KIM JONG IL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



619 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Scheduled are existing home sales for April (Monday); S.& P. Case-Shiller home price index for March and consumer confidence for May (Tuesday); Durable goods orders and new-home sales for April (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims and revised first-quarter gross domestic product (Thursday); personal income and spending for April; Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for May (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting include Campbell Soup (Monday); Medtronic and TiVo (Tuesday); Toll Brothers (Wednesday); Borders, Costco Wholesale, H.J. Heinz, Tiffany and Novell (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON The House is scheduled to vote on legislation that would raise taxes on investment managers (Tuesday); the Securities and Exchange Commission is scheduled to vote on rules requiring securities exchanges to provide data for an audit trail (Wednesday); the House Energy and Commerce Committee will hold a hearing on combating the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico; the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee will hold a hearing on the finances of airlines and the implications of consolidation; the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will hold a hearing on the recall of Children's Tylenol (Thursday). 
 OVERSEAS Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will take part in the United States-China strategic and economic dialogue meeting in Beijing (Monday and Tuesday); Mr. Geithner will meet with the new British chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, then meet with Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank (Wednesday); Mr. Geithner will meet with the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); AUDITS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); OIL SPILLS (53%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (58%); NOVELL INC (57%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (58%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (69%); GEORGE OSBORNE (55%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (68%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (68%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



620 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: 'Glimmers of Hope' for Grads

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
This spring's college graduates face better job prospects than the dismal environment encountered by last year's grads. But that doesn't mean the job market is thriving.
 Average starting salaries are down, and employers plan to make only 5 percent more job offers to new graduates this spring compared to last spring, when job offers were down 20 percent from 2008 levels, according to a study by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, which tracks recruitment data. 
 Liam O'Reilly, who just graduated from the University of Maryland with a bachelor's degree in history, said he had applied to 50 employers -- to be a paralegal, a researcher for a policy organization, an administrative assistant -- but he had gotten hardly any interviews. While continuing to search for something he truly wants, he has taken a minimum-wage job selling software that includes an occasional commission.
 ''Had I realized it would be this bad, I would have applied to grad school,'' Mr. O'Reilly said. 
 The study by the National Association of Colleges and Employers found that 24 percent of 2010 college graduates who applied for a job have one waiting after graduation, up from 20 percent last year. But the average salary offered to graduates with a bachelor's degree has slipped 1.7 percent from last year, to $47,673. 
 Salaries for finance majors rose 1.6 percent, to $50,546, while those for liberal arts majors fell 8.9 percent, to $33,540. For graduates with computer-related degrees, salary offers rose 5.8 percent, to $58,746.
 Patricia Rose, director of career services at the University of Pennsylvania, said that students had more choices this year. ''Last year, people found employment, but there was a sense of musical chairs, that if there's an empty seat, take it,'' she said. ''This year, there's a little more sense of ease.''
 Persistence, connections -- and credentials in hot fields like finance and computer science -- are especially helpful, say economists and college officials.
 Jenna Alt, newly graduated from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., applied for 20 jobs in construction management in New York beginning last fall, but came up empty-handed. While she was attending a tennis party at her aunt's house, she said, ''A friend of my aunt's said, 'You seem like an intelligent young lady. One of my brother's friends owns a construction company in D.C.' ''
 Thanks to that referral, Ms. Alt will join Clark Construction in the Washington area in September, and she feels grateful. ''Only about a third of my friends have jobs lined up after graduation,'' she said. ''If you have a job, you're lucky.''
 College officials say there is more of that luck going around this year.
 ''We've seen glimmers of hope,'' said Thomas C. Devlin, director of the career center at the University of California, Berkeley. ''There's been a steady but gradual uptick in employer activity.'' 
 Economists are less upbeat than college officials, however, and the possibility of a double-dip recession is a growing concern. Some economists worry that the uptick in job offers might peter out if the economy stalls because of the stock market turmoil and the financial chaos in Europe.
 Thomas J. Nardone, an assistant commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said that the jobless rate for college graduates under age 25 was 8 percent in April, up from 6.8 percent in April 2009 and 3.7 percent in April 2007, before the recession began. 
 The 8 percent unemployment rate is lower than the nation's overall 9.9 percent jobless rate, but it is high for college graduates, who typically have a lower unemployment rate than those without bachelor's degrees. Mr. Nardone noted that for high school graduates under age 25 who did not enroll in college, the jobless rate was 24.5 percent last month, up from 11.4 percent in April 2007.
 When the academic year started, many employers were pessimistic because of the recession and decided to send fewer recruiters to campus. But with the economy picking up, some companies are making more job offers than they had expected just a few months ago.
 ''I'd call it a just-in-time job market,'' said Thomas Tarantelli, director of career development at Rensselaer Polytechnic. ''Many employers are holding back, waiting to see what their profits and orders will be, to see if they're able to hire.''
 As the economy has improved, Wells Fargo Bank has increased hiring for financial analysts and entry-level positions in marketing and auditing, while Deloitte, the consulting and accounting firm, has hired 5,300 college graduates, up from 4,800 last year (but down from 5,400 in 2008). 
 ''Our businesses are beginning to pick up,'' said Diane Borhani, Deloitte's national director of campus recruiting. ''Our hiring demand is directly correlated to our business growth.''
 As always, strong students are rising to the top. Deloitte snatched up Andrew Stern, a graduate of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, whose academic concentration was organizational effectiveness.
 He said that after Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008, business students felt a surge of pessimism about their job prospects, but that the dark mood had lifted.
 ''Things are looking up -- companies are returning to campus, and they're confidently hiring,'' Mr. Stern said. ''The vast majority of my friends that do not have a full-time job are going to graduate schools.''
 Andrew Sum, an economics professor at Northeastern University, said the job market was awful for this year's college grads and high school grads. Many college graduates are finding jobs that do not require bachelor's degrees, like retail clerk, office assistant or barista, he said. Using federal labor statistics, he has found that only 51 percent of college graduates under age 25 were working in jobs that require college educations, down from 59 percent in 2000. 
 ''If you work in a job that doesn't require a college degree, you'll make 30 or 40 percent less,'' he said. ''One reason a lot of high school grads are having such a hard time is you have college grads willing to take jobs that high school grads used to get.'' 
 Many students who pursued degrees in what they thought were high-demand fields, like nursing and teaching, have discovered that openings in those fields are not plentiful. ''Two years ago, all our nurses would have multiple job offers, but today a lot of them aren't even offered an R.N. position,'' Mr. Sum said. ''They will be offered only a health support position.''
 While jobs might not be plentiful, advice is. 
 Jeffrey D. Rice, career management expert at the Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University, advised job seekers to look to where federal stimulus money was being spent -- health care, green industries and education -- and to other growth areas like risk management, telecommunications and digital recordkeeping for health care.
 ''Even in a bad economy you have to look at where pockets of opportunity are,'' he said.
 Linda Arra, director of career services at Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., said, networking was vital in today's highly competitive job market. ''This generation has an independent spirit and feels they should do things on their own,'' she said. ''But when there is a great opportunity and an employer has all these applications, you really need someone inside advocating for you.''
 However, many graduating seniors still find themselves out of luck. 
 Roberto McQuade, who majored in communications arts and political science at the University of Wisconsin, has applied for 20 office jobs with pharmaceutical companies and architecture and real estate concerns.
 Without a paycheck, he plans to move in with his parents. ''My mom bought me this book -- it's like how to find a job when there are no jobs,'' he said. ''It's not easy. I'm doing my best to stay optimistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jenna Alt, a recent graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., says, ''If you have a job, you're lucky.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
ANDREW STERN: A Penn graduate and Deloitte employee (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) CHARTS: WHAT'S NEXT
 JOBS IN HAND (Source: National Association of Colleges and Employers) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); PARALEGALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HISTORY (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



621 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: HARD TIMES SPUR IDEAS FOR CHANGE

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
As states around the country gird for another grim budget year, more leaders have begun to talk not of nipping, not of tucking, but, in essence, of turning government upside down and starting over. Ever growing is the list of states, municipalities and agencies with blue ribbon committees aimed at reconsidering what government should be.
 A lawmaker in Nebraska this year proposed the unthinkable: Cut by half, or more, the 93 counties that have made up the state for generations. Senators in Indiana, aiming to thin the tangled layers there, want to eliminate the system of more than 1,000 township boards.
 And in Missouri, where lawmakers this spring took a day off for a brainstorming session on how to ''reboot government,'' there is talk of merging the agencies that oversee secondary and higher education, providing incentives to counties for combining services, even turning to a four-day state workweek. 
 But despite the longest recession since the Great Depression and predictions already of new, gaping deficits in state budgets for at least the next two years, some of the most sweeping notions for overhaul remain just that -- notions. And so, as more than a dozen states grapple with next year's budgets, most of which take effect on July 1, many experts say politicians would be wise to do more than merely contemplate significant change -- and may soon have little choice.
 ''We can incrementally hobble and muddle through, or we can stand back and be more strategic,'' said Scott D. Pattison, the executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. ''That's the question: whether this will be the time when these ideas actually get carried out, or whether this is going to be a whole lot of reports that sit on a shelf.''
 Beyond the immediate financial squeeze, political pressures are growing, too. The jobs of 37 governors are up for grabs in November, so talk of remaking government -- eliminating services, merging school districts, shrinking employee costs -- has become a refrain.
 ''We are working essentially off a 1950s, 1960s model'' of government and services, said Tom Emmer, a state representative and a Republican candidate for governor in Minnesota, where lawmakers closed a nearly $3 billion projected budget gap in May and are already anticipating a $5 billion hole next year. Mr. Emmer voted against the current budget agreement, explaining in an interview: ''You cannot Band-Aid the Good Ship Lollipop. It's time to completely restructure the hull.''
 Perhaps, but change -- especially eliminating anything -- has proven to be politically fraught. 
 In Georgia, after the House voted to end financing for the state's Council for the Arts, artists, musicians and dancers, some in costume, turned up in the state Capitol. In the end, the 2011 budget gave the council nearly $790,000 -- about a third of what it had received this year (and less than was needed to be ensured federal grant money) but still enough to keep it alive.
 ''Anytime you start changing things, you are playing with people's hearts,'' said Rich Pahls, the Nebraska senator who proposed reducing the number of counties -- a thought that startled those long accustomed to having their own courthouse and board of supervisors. That arrangement was designed in the days of the horse and buggy, Mr. Pahls said, not a time when, in rural Nebraska, ''people will drive 100 miles to the grocery store.''
 The proposal got nowhere during this year's legislative session, but Mr. Pahls remains hopeful. ''None of this can happen overnight,'' he said, ''but I think we're almost on the cusp of something now -- a tipping point where people are dissatisfied with the way government is working as it is.''
 Scott Walker, the county executive of Milwaukee County in Wisconsin -- who has, improbably enough, suggested the possibility of eliminating county government -- concurs. ''It's reached the point where the public is already there,'' said Mr. Walker, also a Republican candidate for governor. ''Our elected officials need to be willing to take that next step.''
 One problem, said Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican, is that ''people like hanging on to the authority they have.'' 
 A move to abolish township boards in Indiana failed to make its way through the state legislature, and efforts to abolish the office of lieutenant governor in states like Illinois and Louisiana have gained little traction. 
 Certainly, there are indications that revenues to states are steadying after a long, sharp drop. But experts say the budget picture in many states will remain dark, particularly as federal stimulus money, which some places have leaned on heavily to make up deficits, disappears.
 Despite the struggles, there have been some broad changes. In Hawaii, the school year was 17 days shorter than usual (though some there want to restore the old calendar next year). In Massachusetts, a pile of transportation agencies were transformed into one last year.
 Other examples are found in smaller places -- places where the budget crunch hit hard, like Pewaukee, Wis., a city of 12,000 that found itself with a $1.8 million deficit and the need to replace two broken-down fire trucks. Leaders there decided to close the Police Department in January and sign a contract with the local sheriff's department. 
 But in a sign of how politically hazardous cutting government can be, some in town clamored to recall the mayor, Scott Klein. Instead, Mr. Klein won re-election last month over an opponent who had promised to reopen the Police Department. 
 Elsewhere, making over government remains a work in progress. In Missouri, lawmakers agreed to merge the state's water patrol with its highway patrol (saving about $1 million a year) and to stop printing copies of the state's ''blue book'' guide to politics and statutes (saving $1.7 million). But larger ideas will wait.
 Other places may wish to look at Michigan, a state plagued by budget problems long before everywhere else. Since the early 2000s -- a period Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat, recalls as ''the decade from hell'' -- the state has shrunk itself. It dropped a quarter of all state departments and 11,000 workers, closed 8 prisons and 10 prison camps, and drastically decreased funds for services like the arts and dental care for adults.
 Much of that was accompanied by deep, loud complaint. ''People have come to expect that government was going to be a certain way,'' Ms. Granholm said, ''and we've had to press the reset button on our economy and our government.'' 
 But for those places resistant to change, still hoping to ride out the hard times for a few more years until flush budgets return, Ms. Granholm is skeptical.
 ''People who don't take advantage of the crisis to cross over to a new model,'' she said, ''are wasting the crisis.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLITICS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); DANCERS (60%); MUSIC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



622 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Financial Reform and Europe's Debt Send Shares Lower

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks declined on Monday, dragged down by late-day losses in the financial sector, which has been mired in uncertainty over financial reforms and European debt troubles.
 ''I think there is a lot of concern that financial reform is not a done deal, and Wall Street may not have gotten off that easily,'' said Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. ''But that is just the tip of the iceberg today.''
 The financial sector has been overshadowed for weeks by concerns over the debt crisis and the fragility of global economies. On Monday, some of that uncertainty was carried over after the central bank in Spain took over one of the country's lenders. 
 At the end of trading, the volatility index on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the so-called fear index, had spiked, Mr. Saluzzi said. The interbank lending rate was higher and gold climbed. 
 ''Monday had this magnetic appeal of being up, and it did not happen today,'' he said. ''No doubt the European situation hasn't gone away.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 126.82 points, or 1.24 percent, to 10,066.57. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 14.04 points, or 1.29 percent, to 1,073.65, and the Nasdaq composite index, which was higher for most of the day, fell 15.49 points, or 0.69 percent, to 2,213.55. 
 Financial shares, which often drive the market, started out mixed. Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, said it appeared that concerns over the stability of the euro and European unity might have receded. 
 By the end of the day, however, financial stocks were down about 2.8 percent.
 Shares of JPMorgan Chase declined $1.43, or 3.57 percent, to $38.62. Bank of America dropped 59 cents, or 3.69 percent, to $15.40. Wells Fargo fell $1.40, or 4.65 percent, to $28.71.
 ''From everything I gather everybody is still worried about Europe and the fallout there,'' said William B. Smith, chief executive of Smith Asset Management.
 ''Everything is weak. You've got one of those wait-and-see markets right now,'' he said. ''Either sell and forget it or hold on and wait for the carnage to end.''
 Other sectors that fell included energy stocks and materials. Sunoco fell 27 cents, to $28.09, and Exxon Mobil dropped 69 cents, or 1.13 percent, to $60.19. 
 Sprint Nextel rose 38 cents, or 8.62 percent, to $4.79, after a Goldman Sachs analyst raised his rating on the shares, to a buy, from neutral, saying the company was doing a better job of retaining customers. 
 Shares of Genzyme fell 93 cents, or 1.88 percent, to $48.48, after the company said it had agreed to final terms with the Food and Drug Administration. The company will pay a penalty of $175 million related to problems at a Massachusetts manufacturing plant.
 Home sales in April were better than expected. Sales of existing homes rose again in April with buyers motivated by the government tax credit, improving consumer confidence and favorable affordability conditions, according to the National Association of Realtors. 
 Existing-home sales rose 7.6 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.77 million, from a revised 7 percent rise, or 5.36 million in March.
 The rate reflects a 22.8 percent increase from April 2009.
 The median forecast from analysts had been an increase of 5.6 million units.
 ''The upswing in April existing-home sales was expected because of the tax credit inducement,'' said Lawrence Yun, the association's chief economist.
 The supply of homes rose more than 11 percent in April, representing a supply of more than eight months.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 11/32, to 102 18/32. The yield fell to 3.20 percent from 3.24 percent late Friday.
 Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the day's trend in Citigroup shares. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shelley Mitchiner, right, showing Sharon Willard a home in Raleigh, N.C. Sales rose in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing single family homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (95%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (76%); METALS MARKETS (76%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERBANK LENDING (53%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); GENZYME CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); S (NYSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) EUROPE (91%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



623 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Crime Rates Fell in '09 Despite Economy, F.B.I. Says

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite turmoil in the economy and high unemployment, crime rates fell significantly across the United States in 2009, according to a report released by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on Monday. 
 Compared with 2008, violent crimes declined by 5.5 percent last year, and property crimes decreased 4.9 percent, according to the F.B.I.'s preliminary annual crime report. There was an overall decline in reported crimes for the third straight year; the last increase was in 2006. 
 The bureau's figures are compiled from data voluntarily submitted by 13,237 local and state law enforcement agencies across the country, and measure the number of offenses reported to the authorities. A bureau spokesman declined to speculate about any explanation for the trend.
 Violent crimes -- like murder, forcible rape, robbery and aggravated assault -- fell in cities and rural areas alike, led by a 7.5 percent drop in cities with populations between 500,000 and a million and a 6.9 percent drop in cities with more than a million inhabitants. 
 The steepest decline was in robbery reports -- 8.1 percent -- followed by murder with a 7.2 percent decline over all. However, there were some exceptions: murders rose by 1.8 percent in rural areas, and by 5.3 percent in cities with populations between 25,000 and 50,000 inhabitants.
 Property crimes -- like larcenies, burglaries and auto thefts -- also declined broadly across the country, headlined by a 17.2 percent fall in reported motor vehicle thefts. Other major categories were down much less sharply, with a 4.2 percent fall in larceny-thefts and 1.7 percent fewer burglaries reported. 
 Cities with a population of a million or more reported the largest decline in property crime, with a drop of 7.9 percent over all -- including a 21.1 percent falloff in reported motor vehicle thefts. While property crimes were down generally in rural counties, by 6.7 percent, burglaries were up slightly, rising 0.5 percent compared with 2008.
 The F.B.I. said that arson reports, which it tracks separately from other property crimes, dropped 10.4 percent nationally in 2009, with declines across all population groups and regions.
 Among the 8.4 million inhabitants of New York City, there were 46,357 violent crimes reported in 2009, down from 48,430 in 2008. Reports of property crimes also dropped in New York, with 142,000 reported incidents in 2009, down from 149,989 the year before.
 There were declines in most major categories for New York: Murders fell to 471 from 523; forcible rapes to 832 from 890; robberies to 18,597 from 22,186; burglaries to 18,780 from 19,867; larceny-thefts to 112,526 from 117,682; and motor vehicle thefts to 10,694 from 12,440. However, reports of aggravated assaults rose to 26,457 in 2009 from 24,831 in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (95%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); VANDALISM (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); ROBBERY (90%); BURGLARY (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ARSON (73%); COUNTIES (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



624 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Vanishing Treasure of Rent-Regulated Apartment

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Rent-controlled and rent-stabilized apartments carry mythic significance to New Yorkers starved for space. These are the high-ceiling homes featured in Woody Allen movies, the places secured by celebrities like Carly Simon, Cyndi Lauper and Ed Koch. 
 They are the reason that Monica on ''Friends'' was able to afford her apartment on a chef's salary. 
 Of course, Monica is a fictional character, but awe-inspiring, teeth-clenching deals still do exist. An informal survey of some major landlords and real estate agencies turned up an Upper East Side woman paying $156.20 for two conjoined studios, a Lower East Side man paying $60 a month for a walk-up, and octogenarians and nonagenarians sprinkled through Little Italy paying $58 to $102 a month. 
 Most of these tenants with time-warped rents declined to be interviewed, because of the hate mail they believed they would receive. But one such tenant did agree to go on the record, and he wants his fellow New Yorkers to know that he has not been able to keep his cheap apartment without a long fight. 
 He is John Burke, a 65-year-old paying $288 a month for a studio at 218 East 84th Street. As the last rent-stabilized dweller in a five-story walk-up, Mr. Burke is living in a construction site where the latest landlord is renovating all the other studios and charging $1,850 to $1,975 a month. Mr. Burke says he has spent $13,500 to repair his dilapidated apartment and $11,000 on legal fees taking his landlords to court over the conditions. 
 He is waiting for his current landlord to find him a temporary apartment, make repairs and let him return home. But there are no guarantees when or if that might happen.
 As Mr. Burke carefully walked through the sweltering apartment, stacked to the ceiling with furniture he was waiting to move, he inhaled the unsettling scent of mold, ignored the head-splitting sawing and hammering from floors above him, and poked his dark-wood cane at rotting floorboards his landlord had not repaired. 
 ''It's been hell,'' Mr. Burke said while walking among glass shards that construction had left strewn about the backyard. ''Now you see, it's no bargain.''
 As with many other things that money and gentrification have scrubbed from the city, the number of these apartments is shrinking. The roster of rent-controlled apartments, the ones with the most restrictions on rent, has shrunk to 40,000, according to the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal. When these units are emptied, they often become rent stabilized, and after a certain point the apartments can be liberated to the free market. According to the most recent figures available, the number of rent-stabilized units fell to 848,000 in 2008 from 900,000 in 2003. And outside of prime neighborhoods, the restricted rents are not such a great bargain, in many cases barely cheaper than what the apartments could fetch on the open market. 
 The deteriorating low-priced apartments still exist partly because landlords have little financial incentive to make renovations or apply for rent increases. Stabilized rents increase by order of the local Rent Guidelines Board, typically around 3 percent a year, while controlled rents can go up only if the landlord files an application for an increase with the state, a laborious process. And the state will not allow a rent increase if an apartment has major housing code violations. 
 Sherwin Belkin, a Manhattan lawyer who represents owners and developers, said landlords often say it is not worth the time to apply for increases that could translate into just a few dollars more a month. 
 While it is less true today, rent-regulated apartments have provided some New Yorkers with very comfortable lives. Mr. Burke, who grew up in Ireland on a farm outside Galway, moved to New York in 1964 to be close to his brother upstate and his 100 relatives in Massachusetts. He worked in restaurants and bars and collected decades of tales of celebrity sightings and romances. He moved into his current apartment in 1977, when the rent was $65, and filled his closets with handsome clothes.
 As new owners bought his building and pressed tenants to leave, Mr. Burke held his ground. He was careful to pay his rent by check or money order, not cash, to have a paper trail. But an accident in the Catskills in 1995 left Mr. Burke unable to work and with little spare money. He currently lives on an $1,100 monthly disability check. He finds solace reading historical romance novels about lords and earls by authors like Julia London.
 Mr. Burke has reached a stalemate with his latest landlord, the Shalom family, which bought the building last year for $3.3 million. He is working with State Senator Liz Krueger, the nonprofit Eviction Intervention Services and the tenant rights group Shalom Tenants Alliance, which is fighting the landlord over its management of more than 100 buildings. Calls and e-mail messages to the Shalom family at their firm Sky Management, to the past landlord and to brokers renting out apartments were not returned.
 Catie Marshall, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said the agency was ''aware of the conditions of his apartment'' and wanted it ''to be brought up to all of the standards of the housing code.'' The building currently has 190 violations, including 76 in that specific unit. For example, the department has asked the landlord to repair the broken kitchen sink and bathroom floor tiles. The Department of Buildings is also monitoring the building and has issued 18 notices of environmental control board violations. 
 Still, Mr. Burke's eyes twinkled when he was asked whether there was any benefit to the battle for his bargain apartment.
 ''I have been fighting for other tenants and myself,'' he said. ''We can leave a road map showing people how to win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Burke pays $288 a month for a studio apartment on East 84th Street, but it has problems like rotten floorboards, a sinking bathtub, and a constantly leaking kitchen sink.
 Mr. Burke says he has spent $13,500 on repairs and $11,000 taking his landlords to court over the conditions. ''It's been hell,'' he said. ''Now you see, it's no bargain.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



625 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Climate Fears Turn to Doubts Among Britons

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
LONDON -- Last month hundreds of environmental activists crammed into an auditorium here to ponder an anguished question: If the scientific consensus on climate change has not changed, why have so many people turned away from the idea that human activity is warming the planet?
 Nowhere has this shift in public opinion been more striking than in Britain, where climate change was until this year such a popular priority that in 2008 Parliament enshrined targets for emissions cuts as national law. But since then, the country has evolved into a home base for a thriving group of climate skeptics who have dominated news reports in recent months, apparently convincing many that the threat of warming is vastly exaggerated.
 A survey in February by the BBC found that only 26 percent of Britons believed that ''climate change is happening and is now established as largely manmade,'' down from 41 percent in November 2009. A poll conducted for the German magazine Der Spiegel found that 42 percent of Germans feared global warming, down from 62 percent four years earlier. 
 And London's Science Museum recently announced that a permanent exhibit scheduled to open later this year would be called the Climate Science Gallery -- not the Climate Change Gallery as had previously been planned. 
 ''Before, I thought, 'Oh my God, this climate change problem is just dreadful,' '' said Jillian Leddra, 50, a musician who was shopping in London on a recent lunch hour. ''But now I have my doubts, and I'm wondering if it's been overhyped.''
 Perhaps sensing that climate is now a political nonstarter, David Cameron, Britain's new Conservative prime minister, was ''strangely muted'' on the issue in a recent pre-election debate, as The Daily Telegraph put it, though it had previously been one of his passions. 
 And a poll in January of the personal priorities of 141 Conservative Party candidates deemed capable of victory in the recent election found that ''reducing Britain's carbon footprint'' was the least important of the 19 issues presented to them. 
 Politicians and activists say such attitudes will make it harder to pass legislation like a fuel tax increase and to persuade people to make sacrifices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
 ''Legitimacy has shifted to the side of the climate skeptics, and that is a big, big problem,'' Ben Stewart, a spokesman for Greenpeace, said at the meeting of environmentalists here. ''This is happening in the context of overwhelming scientific agreement that climate change is real and a threat. But the poll figures are going through the floor.''
 The lack of fervor about climate change is also true of the United States, where action on climate and emissions reduction is still very much a work in progress, and concern about global warming was never as strong as in Europe. A March Gallup poll found that 48 percent of Americans believed that the seriousness of global warming was ''generally exaggerated,'' up from 41 percent a year ago.
 Here in Britain, the change has been driven by the news media's intensive coverage of a series of climate science controversies unearthed and highlighted by skeptics since November. These include the unauthorized release of e-mail messages from prominent British climate scientists at the University of East Anglia that skeptics cited as evidence that researchers were overstating the evidence for global warming and the discovery of errors in a United Nations climate report. 
 Two independent reviews later found no evidence that the East Anglia researchers had actively distorted climate data, but heavy press coverage had already left an impression that the scientists had schemed to repress data. Then there was the unusually cold winter in Northern Europe and the United States, which may have reinforced a perception that the Earth was not warming. (Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a United States agency, show that globally, this winter was the fifth warmest in history.)
 Asked about his views on global warming on a recent evening, Brian George, a 30-year-old builder from southeast London, mused, ''It was extremely cold in January, wasn't it?''
 In a telephone interview, Nicholas Stern, a former chief economist at the World Bank and a climate change expert, said that the shift in opinion ''hadn't helped'' efforts to come up with strong policy in a number of countries. But he predicted that it would be overcome, not least because the science was so clear on the warming trend. 
 ''I don't think it will be problematic in the long run,'' he said, adding that in Britain, at least, politicians ''are ahead of the public anyway.'' Indeed, once Mr. Cameron became prime minister, he vowed to run ''the greenest government in our history'' and proposed projects like a more efficient national electricity grid.
 Scientists have meanwhile awakened to the public's misgivings and are increasingly fighting back. An editorial in the prestigious journal Nature said climate deniers were using ''every means at their disposal to undermine science and scientists'' and urged scientists to counterattack. Scientists in France, the Netherlands and the United States have signed open letters affirming their trust in climate change evidence, including one published on May 7 in the journal Science.
 In March, Simon L. Lewis, an expert on rain forests at the University of Leeds in Britain, filed a 30-page complaint with the nation's Press Complaints Commission against The Times of London, accusing it of publishing ''inaccurate, misleading or distorted information'' about climate change, his own research and remarks he had made to a reporter.
 ''I was most annoyed that there seemed to be a pattern of pushing the idea that there were a number of serious mistakes in the I.P.C.C. report, when most were fairly innocuous, or not mistakes at all,'' said Dr. Lewis, referring to the report by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
 Meanwhile, groups like the wildlife organization WWF have posted articles like ''How to Talk to a Climate Skeptic,'' providing stock answers to doubting friends and relatives, on their Web sites.
 It is unclear whether such actions are enough to win back a segment of the public that has eagerly consumed a series of revelations that were published prominently in right-leaning newspapers like The Times of London and The Telegraph and then repeated around the world.
 In January, for example, The Times chastised the United Nations climate panel for an errant and unsupported projection that glaciers in the Himalayas could disappear by 2035. The United Nations ultimately apologized for including the estimate, which was mentioned in passing within a 3,000-page report in 2007.
 Then came articles contending that the 2007 report was inaccurate on a host of other issues, including African drought, the portion of the Netherlands below sea level, and the economic impact of severe storms. Officials from the climate panel said the articles' claims either were false or reflected minor errors like faulty citations that in no way diluted the evidence that climate change is real and caused by human activity.
 Stefan Rahmstorf, a professor at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, successfully demanded in February that some German newspapers remove misleading articles from their Web sites. But such reports have become so common that he ''wouldn't bother'' to pursue most cases now, he added.
 The public is left to struggle with the salvos between the two sides. ''I'm still concerned about climate change, but it's become very confusing,'' said Sandra Lawson, 32, as she ran errands near Hyde Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); FUEL TAX (60%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



626 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Just Steps From the Room

BYLINE: By JULIE WEED

 BODY:
At most hotels, the weak economy of the last year and a half has meant one thing -- fewer amenities. 
 But some hotels have taken a different tack and have been investing in special, or even quirky, events to attract and retain business travelers, and maybe even pull in new local business. 
 It has worked for travelers like Nadine DeKlerk, who oversees nursing home operations in the Northwest for Evergreen Healthcare, based in Vancouver, Wash. 
 She said she used to choose from a few familiar hotel chains because they offered a predictable experience. Now she looks for hotels like the Sorrento in Seattle that has started to offer cultural and social events, including author readings and current event symposiums. ''It's nice to have a reason to come out of my room,'' she said. 
 The Sorrento Hotel started programming its ''Night School'' events, in part, to change the way business travelers thought of the hotel. 
 The hotel was attracting guests because it is an elegant historic landmark, its co-owner, Barbara Malone, said, but it was not very vibrant.
 ''We wanted to make the Sorrento a cultural and social epicenter,'' she said. One offering is ''Chamber vs. Chamber,'' which pairs, for example, an orchestral percussionist and a rock musician. 
 Among the other events there, Garry Wills has discussed his book, ''Bomb Power,'' and two of the principal dancers of the Pacific Northwest Ballet shared stories of life behind the scenes at the ballet.
 About a year ago, the Liberty Hotel in Boston started offering special events every night, including cooking demonstrations by its executive chef, art exhibitions featuring local artists, and fashion shows where models strutted though the lobby and up the escalators. 
 ''We wanted to offer our guests amenities beyond the fruit plate,'' said Rachel Moniz, the hotel's general manager. ''We wanted them to find something special here, and want to come back to it.'' 
 The events at the Liberty and the Sorrento were intended to attract area residents as well as hotel guests. ''It's a way for the local community to sample the hotel,'' Ms. Moniz said. 
 To the hotel's way of thinking, guests who come for an event may stay for dinner or become familiar with the hotel and recommend it to out-of-town friends or colleagues. 
 Food and beverage sales at the Sorrento are up 25 percent over the same quarter last year, and room bookings have increased as well, Ms. Malone said. 
 Standing apart on an attraction other than price is important, said Leonard M. Lodish, vice dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''If competitors continually undercut each other's prices, it's a race to the bottom,'' he said. 
 Experimenting with new ideas is critical for the short- and long-term success of any business, he added, and those new ideas should meet the needs of customers and be hard to duplicate. 
 In the case of hotels, for example, a drop-in event to meet the author of a business strategy book or to get a quick neck massage suits the needs of the business traveler more than a two-hour chocolate-tasting class scheduled at lunchtime.
 The Kimpton hotels have always offered their guests a complimentary evening social and wine event, from the time the hotel chain opened in 1981. 
 The company's philosophy, said its chief operating officer, Niki Leondakis, is that the traveler on the road would like to come to a comfortable living room at the end of the day and meet other travelers, for an experience closer to that at a friend's guest house than a hotel. 
 The wine hour tradition at nearly all 50 of the boutique Kimpton hotels has proved to be one of its most popular features, according to the company's research. 
 Last year, as the hotel industry struggled with lost revenue, the chain looked for cost-cutting measures like telling diners of the specials rather than printing up a menu each day. 
 The wine hour, however, was viewed as sacrosanct. In fact, the company decided to ''amp it up,'' based on the feedback from guests, Ms. Leondakis said. ''It is absolutely worth our investment.'' 
 Each Kimpton property chooses its own extras. In San Francisco, travelers may find a masseuse ready to rub their shoulders, while guests can try out Wii bowling in Kimpton's Hotel Monaco in Portland, Ore. The hotels periodically change their offerings.
 Daniel Warner, a manager for interactive at Valassis/redplum.com in Costa Mesa, Calif., said he spends an average of two nights a week traveling for business. He has turned over a floating rubber ducky in a tiled pool at the Kimpton's Hotel Triton in San Francisco and won a $10 ''raid'' on the mini bar. 
 ''In most places, the hotel experience has been getting thinner and thinner,'' Mr. Warner said. ''At the Kimpton, they don't seem to be cutting back.'' 
 Some hotel offerings are more active. Guests at Hotel Teatro in Denver can have an escorted run on the nearby Cherry Creek Trail. (The hotel asks for 24 hours' notice to make sure an outfitted guide will be there.) 
 Of course, not all new ideas succeed. ''Last summer at the Liberty, we showed the Red Sox baseball games in our courtyard on a giant screen,'' Ms. Moniz said. ''But it turned out that our guests from all over the country didn't love the Sox as much as we did.'' 
 This summer, the hotel will instead show independent movies with free popcorn in their courtyard. ''We're inviting local directors and producers to show and discuss their films in a unique setting,'' she said.
 As a business traveler, Ms. DeKlerk said she works all day, is in her hotel all night and does not have time for sightseeing. ''So if something interesting is going on in the lobby,'' she said, ''it makes the trip feel like less of a chore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Garry Wills, author of ''Bomb Power,'' speaking at an event at the Sorrento Hotel in Seattle. The discussion was part of the hotel's ''Night School'' series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH JURADO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); WRITERS (74%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); MUSIC (70%); DANCE (69%); DANCERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); DANCE COMPANIES (64%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); FASHION SHOWS (63%); HISTORIC SITES (52%); POP & ROCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



627 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SAID TO ORDER AN EXPANDED USE OF SECRET ACTION

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI; Thom Shanker and Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The top American commander in the Middle East has ordered a broad expansion of clandestine military activity in an effort to disrupt militant groups or counter threats in Iran, Saudi Arabia, Somalia and other countries in the region, according to defense officials and military documents.
 The secret directive, signed in September by Gen. David H. Petraeus, authorizes the sending of American Special Operations troops to both friendly and hostile nations in the Middle East, Central Asia and the Horn of Africa to gather intelligence and build ties with local forces. Officials said the order also permits reconnaissance that could pave the way for possible military strikes in Iran if tensions over its nuclear ambitions escalate. 
 While the Bush administration had approved some clandestine military activities far from designated war zones, the new order is intended to make such efforts more systematic and long term, officials said. Its goals are to build networks that could ''penetrate, disrupt, defeat or destroy'' Al Qaeda and other militant groups, as well as to ''prepare the environment'' for future attacks by American or local military forces, the document said. The order, however, does not appear to authorize offensive strikes in any specific countries.
 In broadening its secret activities, the United States military has also sought in recent years to break its dependence on the Central Intelligence Agency and other spy agencies for information in countries without a significant American troop presence. 
 General Petraeus's order is meant for small teams of American troops to fill intelligence gaps about terror organizations and other threats in the Middle East and beyond, especially emerging groups plotting attacks against the United States. 
 But some Pentagon officials worry that the expanded role carries risks. The authorized activities could strain relationships with friendly governments like Saudi Arabia or Yemen -- which might allow the operations but be loath to acknowledge their cooperation -- or incite the anger of hostile nations like Iran and Syria. Many in the military are also concerned that as American troops assume roles far from traditional combat, they would be at risk of being treated as spies if captured and denied the Geneva Convention protections afforded military detainees. 
 The precise operations that the directive authorizes are unclear, and what the military has done to follow through on the order is uncertain. The document, a copy of which was viewed by The New York Times, provides few details about continuing missions or intelligence-gathering operations. 
 Several government officials who described the impetus for the order would speak only on condition of anonymity because the document is classified. Spokesmen for the White House and the Pentagon declined to comment for this article. The Times, responding to concerns about troop safety raised by an official at United States Central Command, the military headquarters run by General Petraeus, withheld some details about how troops could be deployed in certain countries.
 The seven-page directive appears to authorize specific operations in Iran, most likely to gather intelligence about the country's nuclear program or identify dissident groups that might be useful for a future military offensive. The Obama administration insists that for the moment, it is committed to penalizing Iran for its nuclear activities only with diplomatic and economic sanctions. Nevertheless, the Pentagon has to draw up detailed war plans to be prepared in advance, in the event that President Obama ever authorizes a strike. 
 ''The Defense Department can't be caught flat-footed,'' said one Pentagon official with knowledge of General Petraeus's order.
 The directive, the Joint Unconventional Warfare Task Force Execute Order, signed Sept. 30, may also have helped lay a foundation for the surge of American military activity in Yemen that began three months later. 
 Special Operations troops began working with Yemen's military to try to dismantle Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, an affiliate of Osama bin Laden's terror network based in Yemen. The Pentagon has also carried out missile strikes from Navy ships into suspected militant hideouts and plans to spend more than $155 million equipping Yemeni troops with armored vehicles, helicopters and small arms.
 Officials said that many top commanders, General Petraeus among them, have advocated an expansive interpretation of the military's role around the world, arguing that troops need to operate beyond Iraq and Afghanistan to better fight militant groups. 
 The order, which an official said was drafted in close coordination with Adm. Eric T. Olson, the officer in charge of the United States Special Operations Command, calls for clandestine activities that ''cannot or will not be accomplished'' by conventional military operations or ''interagency activities,'' a reference to American spy agencies. 
 While the C.I.A. and the Pentagon have often been at odds over expansion of clandestine military activity, most recently over intelligence gathering by Pentagon contractors in Pakistan and Afghanistan, there does not appear to have been a significant dispute over the September order. 
 A spokesman for the C.I.A. declined to confirm the existence of General Petraeus's order, but said that the spy agency and the Pentagon had a ''close relationship'' and generally coordinate operations in the field.
 ''There's more than enough work to go around,'' said the spokesman, Paul Gimigliano. ''The real key is coordination. That typically works well, and if problems arise, they get settled.''
 During the Bush administration, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld endorsed clandestine military operations, arguing that Special Operations troops could be as effective as traditional spies, if not more so. 
 Unlike covert actions undertaken by the C.I.A., such clandestine activity does not require the president's approval or regular reports to Congress, although Pentagon officials have said that any significant ventures are cleared through the National Security Council. Special Operations troops have already been sent into a number of countries to carry out reconnaissance missions, including operations to gather intelligence about airstrips and bridges. 
 Some of Mr. Rumsfeld's initiatives were controversial, and met with resistance by some at the State Department and C.I.A. who saw the troops as a backdoor attempt by the Pentagon to assert influence outside of war zones. In 2004, one of the first groups sent overseas was pulled out of Paraguay after killing a pistol-waving robber who had attacked them as they stepped out of a taxi. 
 A Pentagon order that year gave the military authority for offensive strikes in more than a dozen countries, and Special Operations troops carried them out in Syria, Pakistan and Somalia.
 In contrast, General Petraeus's September order is focused on intelligence gathering -- by American troops, foreign businesspeople, academics or others -- to identify militants and provide ''persistent situational awareness,'' while forging ties to local indigenous groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SYRIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



628 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Financial Group Urges Early Intervention in Crises

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
National regulators should have the power to intervene early in a banking crisis, including the right to replace senior management at troubled companies, a group representing the world's largest financial firms recommended on Monday. 
 The comments were part of a report by the group, the Institute of International Finance, as governments were moving toward new rules on bank supervision.
 The group also recommended that the costs of future bank failures be shouldered by shareholders and creditors, rather than taxpayers.
 The report said policy makers should be able to order capital increases or restructuring via debt-equity swaps; to identify business units vital to the financial system and transfer those to third parties where necessary; and to delay termination clauses in financial transactions to buy time for struggling firms -- for a short period.
 Peter Sands, chief executive of Standard Chartered and chairman of the group's regulation committee, said, ''Any additional costs arising out of the winding down of firms should be shouldered by the financial industry itself.'' Direct losses should be ''borne by equity holders as well as by uninsured unsecured creditors,'' he said, and regulators should promote private solutions like takeovers of weak firms by stronger ones.
 Government rescues of big banks, like the Royal Bank of Scotland and Citigroup, highlighted the lack of a global framework to ensure such events were more smoothly managed in the future.
 ''While effective resolution regimes at the national level are essential, there is a crucial need for them to be integrated in a coherent international framework for cross-border resolution,'' said Urs Rohner, the vice chairman of Credit Suisse and head of a working group at the institute, based in Washington, an association of 400 financial institutions from around the world.
 Regulatory proposals now circulating among governments include provisions to break up large financial firms, restrict their activities or impose special tax or capital requirements on them to avoid a crisis like the one that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers.
 Last week, the United States Senate passed a bill seeking to curb abusive lending practices and ensure that troubled financial companies could be liquidated at no cost to taxpayers. Under the legislation, big banks might be forced to spin off some of their lucrative derivatives business into separate subsidiaries. 
 The German government is pressing other states to agree to a global bank levy to pay for future rescues, and has moved to curb trading in certain securities that bet on a falling price of an asset. 
 The institute's managing director, Charles Dallara, said, ''The time has now come for the G-20 to establish a high-level task force to directly address the very complex resolution issues, which we are convinced are surmountable.'' 
 A separate report recommended that officials carefully consider whether large banks should be broken up. Only large financial institutions are able to provide the range of services needed by multinational corporations, the report said, including making credit available at the best price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (67%); RBS (LSE) (67%); RBS (AMS) (67%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%)

PERSON: PETER SANDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



629 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 413 words

PERSON: John P. Lewis 

HEADLINE: John P. Lewis, 89, an Adviser To Presidents on Economic Aid

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
John P. Lewis, who was an economic adviser to three presidents, largely on the subject of foreign aid, died Wednesday in Montgomery, N.J. He was 89 and lived at Stonebridge at Montgomery, a retirement community. 
 His son-in-law Charles LaMonica said he died of natural causes.
 Mr. Lewis, a strong advocate of American aid to developing countries, was named by President John F. Kennedy to the Council of Economic Advisers in 1962. In 1964 President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him director of the United States Agency for International Development in India.
 Under President Jimmy Carter, he was chairman of the development assistance committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which coordinates economic policies and foreign aid programs of the most developed nations.
 Mr. Lewis argued that aid was a necessary element of foreign policy, and he battled those who denounced the misuse of American aid by corrupt foreign governments and opposed sending taxpayer dollars abroad. 
 ''He generally felt that the rich had an obligation to the poor, a worldview that applied to nations as much as it did to individuals,'' said Devesh Kapur, the director of the Center for the Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania, and the co-author, with Mr. Lewis and Richard Webb, of a history of the World Bank. ''He was very, very troubled by inequalities both in the U.S. and globally.''
 John Prior Lewis was born on March 18, 1921, in Albany and grew up in nearby Hudson Falls. He graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., and earned a master's degree in public administration and a Ph.D. in political economy and government from Harvard. He served in the Navy during World War II. 
 From 1950 to 1953 he was assistant to the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Lewis was dean of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public Affairs at Princeton from 1969 to 1974 and remained on the faculty until 1991. In addition to his book with Mr. Kapur and Mr. Webb, ''The World Bank: Its First Half Century'' (1997), he wrote or edited several other works of economic history and analysis, including ''India's Political Economy: Governance and Reform'' (1995).
 Mr. Lewis's wife, the former June Estelle Ryan, died last year, and a daughter, Amanda, died in 2008. He is survived by two daughters, Betsy Alvarez of Cranbury, N.J., and Sally Lewis-LaMonica of Lawrenceville, N.J.; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); WRITERS (65%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.), Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



630 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Oil Hits Home, Spreading Arc Of Frustration

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON, CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JOHN M. BRODER; Campbell Robertson reported from Louisiana, Clifford Krauss from Houston and John M. Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
This article is by Campbell Robertson, Clifford Krauss and John M. Broder.
 PORT FOURCHON, La. -- For weeks, it was a disaster in abstraction, a threat floating somewhere out there.
 Not anymore. In the last week, the oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico has revealed itself to an angry and desperate public, smearing tourist beaches, washing onto the shorelines of sleepy coastal communities and oozing into marshy bays that fishermen have worked for generations. It has even announced its arrival on the Louisiana coast with a fittingly ugly symbol: brown pelicans, the state bird, dyed with crude.
 More than a month has passed since the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig blew up, spewing immeasurable quantities of oil into the Gulf of Mexico and frustrating all efforts to contain it. The billowing plume of undersea oil and water has thwarted the industry's well-control efforts and driven government officials to impotent rage. 
 It has demonstrated the enduring laxity of federal regulation of offshore operations and has shown the government to be almost wholly at the mercy of BP, the company leasing the rig, to provide the technology, personnel and equipment to stop the bleeding well. 
 Senators and administration officials visiting the southern Louisiana town of Galliano lashed out again at BP on Monday, saying they were ''beyond patience'' with the company. The day before, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, who early in the crisis vowed to ''keep the boot on the neck'' of BP, threatened to push the company out of the way.
 But on Monday, Mr. Salazar backed off, conceding to the reality that BP and the oil companies have access to the best technology to attack the well, a mile below the surface, even though that technology has proved so far to have fallen short of its one purpose. The government's role, he acknowledged, is largely supervisory and the primary responsibility for the spill, for legal and practical reasons, remains with the company. 
 ''The administration has done everything we can possibly do to make sure that we push BP to stop the spill and to contain the impact,'' Mr. Salazar said. ''We have also been very clear that there are areas where BP and the private sector are the ones who must continue to lead the efforts with government oversight, such as the deployment of private sector technology 5,000 feet below the ocean's surface to kill the well.''
 Oil industry experts said they did not take seriously the sporadic threats by the administration that the federal government might have to wrest management of the effort to plug the well from BP. The experts said that the Interior and Energy Departments do not have engineers with more experience in deepwater drilling than those who work for BP and the array of companies that have been brought into the effort to stem the leak.
 ''It's worse than politics,'' said Larry Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, which is partly financed by the oil industry. ''They have had the authority from Day 1. If they could have handled this situation better, they would have already.''
 As the verbal warfare between officials and company executives escalated, the slick from the April 20 well blowout continued to spread in billowing rust-colored splotches in the gulf, raising urgent questions about what lay beneath.
 On land, shrimpers were stuffing their catch into coolers in hopes of having some in store if the season ends altogether. Hotel owners all along the gulf were trying to persuade tourists to keep their vacation plans. But as they looked to BP and the authorities for help, or at least direction, there has only been frustration.
 ''I never thought it would come to this,'' said Ryan Lambert, a charter boat operator in Buras, La., who spoke to the federal delegation on Monday. ''My guys look to me and say 'What do I do, boss?' And I don't have an answer.''
 Several things have become clear over the past month. Neither BP nor the government was prepared for an oil release of this size or at this depth. The federal Minerals Management Service, charged with overseeing offshore oil development, has for too long served as a handmaiden of industry. Laws governing deepwater drilling have fallen far behind the technology and the attendant risks. And no one can estimate the extent of the economic and environmental damage, or how long it will last. 
 ''Just under 70 miles of our coast have been hit by oil,'' said Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, a Republican, who criticized the disjointed response effort that he said has allowed oil to come ashore unnecessarily. ''Let's make no mistake that what is at threat here is our way of life.''
 The crude has been flowing at a rate still unknown nearly a mile below the surface, escaping in quantities far greater than the small amount of oil that has been burned off, collected with booms or sucked from the broken drill pipe lying on the ocean floor.
 Using conservative government and BP estimates, more than seven million gallons of oil have been released from the crippled well, nearing the size of the spill from the Exxon Valdez in 1989. Independent estimates of the gulf spill place it many times higher than the official figure, rendering the statistics about how much oil has been collected thus far nearly useless in gauging the effectiveness of the response.
 For weeks BP tried without success to reactivate the seal-off valves on the dead blowout preventer, the tower of pipes designed to shut the well. Then it lowered a 40-foot steel containment chamber in an effort to funnel escaping oil to a ship on the surface, but that failed when an icy slush of gas and water stopped up the device. 
 In recent days, BP attached a mile-long tube into the leaking well designed to divert oil to a drill ship before it leaked into the gulf. But the company said the rate it has been able to capture has varied from day to day, between 1,360 and 3,000 barrels, far below even the most conservative estimates of how much oil was leaking.
 The recriminations over the performance of BP and the Obama administration could subside if the latest effort to kill the well, now scheduled for Wednesday morning, succeeds. 
 In a maneuver called a ''top kill,'' BP is planning to pump heavy drilling fluids twice the density of water through two narrow lines into the blowout preventer to essentially plug the runaway well.
 ''The top kill operation is not a guarantee of success,'' warned Doug Suttles, BP's chief operating officer, who added that it had never been tried before in deep water under high pressures. 
 ''If the government felt there were other things to do it is clearly within the power of the government to do that,'' Mr. Suttles said. ''Everyone is very, very frustrated.''
 Mr. Suttles said that if the top kill did work, the leak could be stopped as early as Wednesday night. Then engineers could either fill the well with cement or replace the failed blowout preventer.
 Shortly after officials lambasted his company in Galliano, Tony Hayward, the chief executive of BP, invited reporters to follow as he walked along the beach at Port Fourchon, which was crowded with workers in yellow Hazmat suits picking up shovelfuls of chocolate-colored crude off the sand.
 Asked about the top kill, Mr. Hayward acknowledged that it was far from a sure fix.
 ''We rate the probability of success between 60 percent and 70 percent,'' he said. ''Beyond that, there is a third and fourth and fifth option around both containment and elimination.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Public beaches were closed Friday in Grand Isle, La., as oil, dead fish and birds washed ashore. ''Just under 70 miles of our coast have been hit by oil,'' said Gov. Bobby Jindal. ''Let's make no mistake that what is at threat here is our way of life.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL GERBER) (A16) MAPS: The Leak Continues: In the last month, BP has tried several methods to stop the leak from the deepwater well, which is still spewing oil into the Gulf of Mexico. (Sources: Deepwater Horizon Incident Joint Information Center
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)
 CHART: The Latest on the Oil Spill (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OCEANS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); BEACHES (76%); OCEANOGRAPHY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (72%); BOBBY JINDAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



631 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Eli Broad Said to Pick Site for New Museum

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Where will Eli Broad build his museum? For months, Los Angeles's most influential philanthropist and art collector has publicly toyed with various locations for a museum to house his contemporary-art collection. Although a Beverly Hills site fell out of the running in mid-April, Mr. Broad told The Los Angeles Times just over two weeks ago that he was still considering both a Santa Monica site and one downtown, on Grand Avenue. 
 But according to several people directly involved in the project, who asked not to be named because they are not authorized to speak about the matter or have signed confidentiality agreements, Mr. Broad has been pursuing development of the downtown site, next door to the Walt Disney Concert Hall, for several months now. 
 Early this year the Los Angeles architect Thom Mayne began working on a design for the downtown site at Mr. Broad's request. Then in early April, after that plan was abandoned, Mr. Broad initiated a secret competition among six architecture teams, all of whom were asked to sign confidentiality agreements, for the same site. The teams -- from the offices of Rem Koolhaas; Diller Scofidio & Renfro; Christian de Portzamparc; Sanaa; Foreign Office Architects; and Herzog & de Meuron -- presented their designs to a competition jury last week. 
 According to two of the sources, the jury recommended the schemes by Diller Scofido & Renfro and Mr. Koolhaas, and Mr. Broad could make a final choice as early as this week. 
 Through a spokeswoman Mr. Broad confirmed the names of the six firms, though he declined to offer any other details of the competition; nor would he confirm the downtown location as the museum's planned site. In a statement he added that a decision on both the site and the architect was expected ''later this spring.''
 The museum building, which would stand next to Disney Hall, designed by Frank Gehry, and across the street from the Museum of Contemporary Art, would hold Mr. Broad's collection, which includes major works by Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman, Joseph Beuys and Andy Warhol. The competition brief calls for roughly 35,000 square feet of gallery space and a 45,000-square-foot archive of works, to be used as a lending library for art museums around the world.
 With a level of detail unusual for such a brief, Mr. Broad specified, according to those familiar with his plans, that a 5,000-square-foot lobby, a 3,500-square-foot bookstore and part of the archives should be located on the first floor; archives, office space and a conference room on the second; and the galleries on the third and final floor, so that they could be illuminated with skylights.
 Part of the architects' challenge was the site location next to Mr. Gehry's creation, a flamboyant 2,265-seat hall enveloped in ribbons of steel that has become a beloved city landmark. According to those who have seen the designs, the majority chose a calmer, boxy architectural language in order not to compete with Mr. Gehry's forms at the Disney Hall. The Diller Scofidio & Renfro scheme, one of the two preferred by the jury, is wrapped in a perforated skin, with its northeast corner, the one closest to the concert hall, rising as if had been pried up by a can opener -- much the same approach that the firm used in its design for Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center. Mr. Koolhaas, the other favorite, proposed a vaultlike aluminum block that sits above a glass lobby surrounded on four sides by a shaded public plaza. 
 Mr. Broad has been a longtime champion of the transformation of Grand Avenue into the Los Angeles cultural acropolis. In the late 1990s he led the fund-raising drive to complete Disney Hall, which raised more than $100 million. 
 Soon after, he helped to found the Grand Avenue Committee, a group formed to oversee additional development of the avenue. (He resigned from the committee last year.) In 2008 he rescued the Museum of Contemporary Art from near financial collapse with a $30 million gift, and more recently he was a key figure in the selection of its new director, Jeffrey Deitch.
 The proximity of the downtown site to the contemporary museum suggests the possibility, at least, of close collaboration between the two institutions in the future. According to two people familiar with his project, Mr. Broad has left open the possibility that the ground-floor archives could eventually be transformed into gallery space that could one day be shared by both.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Museum plans have centered on a site along Grand Avenue. (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); OFFICE DESIGN (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JURY TRIALS (65%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



632 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Opens High-Level Meetings in China With a Long Wish List

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Michael Wines contributed reporting from Beijing, and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China and the United States opened three days of high-level meetings here on Monday meant to broaden and deepen the ties between the world's largest developed and developing economies.
 But the opening session instead laid bare a recurring theme between Beijing and Washington: the United States came with a long wish list for China on both economic and security issues, while China mostly wants to be left alone to pursue policies that are turning it into an economic superpower.
 President Hu Jintao, welcoming the 200-strong American delegation in the Great Hall of the People, praised the ''mutually beneficial and win-win cooperation'' between the United States and China. Such coordination, he said, had helped speed the recovery from the 2008 financial crisis. 
 On the crucial issue of China revaluing its currency -- something the Obama administration had pushed for -- Mr. Hu repeated China's past promises to make its effectively fixed exchange rate respond more to the market, but the fact that the country's top leader mentioned reform at all suggested it is on the leadership's agenda.
 Still, Mr. Hu also repeated that Beijing would move ''under the principle of independent decision-making, controllability, and gradual progress.'' Translation: China alone will determine the timing of any such move.
 Economists said the deepening debt crisis in Greece, which came up immediately in the discussions on Monday, would make Beijing more reluctant to allow its currency to appreciate in value in the immediate future.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner did not mention China's currency in his opening remarks, though he did allude to it in subsequent sessions. The administration has decided not to prod Beijing at this meeting, officials said, concluding that it would resist outside pressure.
 The United States is hitting similar hurdles on security issues. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clintonpressed China to support measures against North Korea following the strong evidence that it torpedoed a South Korean warship in March. But China has been skeptical of North Korea's role and is reluctant to punish the North, with which it has close ties.
 And while China agreed to a watered-down United Nations resolution on Iran's nuclear program, it has not signed off on amendments against specific Iranian citizens and companies. With big planned investments in Iran's oil and gas industry, China may well be in business with some of them.
 In her speech to the opening session, Mrs. Clinton cited Iran and North Korea as issues in which Beijing and Washington must find common cause. ''Today, we face another serious challenge provoked by the sinking of the South Korean ship,'' she said. ''So we must work together, again, to address this challenge and advance our shared objectives of peace and stability.''
 A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Ma Zhaoxu, was noncommittal, saying of the Korea crisis, ''We hope all the relevant parties will exercise restraint and remain cool-headed.''
 Some of this is cultural, to be sure. Chinese officials tend to speak far less directly than Americans. Mr. Hu did not mention Iran and North Korea, referring to regional ''hot spots.'' The fact that he frankly addressed the exchange rate of China's currency, the renminbi, surprised some observers, and lent itself to varying interpretations.
 For some experts, Mr. Hu's pledge to ''steadily advance the reform mechanism of the RMB exchange rate,'' without repeating his previous references to the rate being ''basically stable,'' was a sign of conciliation. ''It's important, the fact they haven't mentioned it,'' said Ben Simpfendorfer, the China economist for the Royal Bank of Scotland.
 But others interpreted it as a pre-emptive move to take the issue off the table. Eswar Prasad, an economist at Cornell University, noted that the crisis in Greece had rattled the Chinese on two levels. It was likely to curb their exports to Europe, and it had strengthened the renminbi relative to the swooning euro, which makes Chinese goods more costly in foreign markets.
 ''That double hit on China's exports almost certainly means that they're not going to move forward unless there is evidence of stabilization in the euro and stabilization in Europe's recovery,'' Mr. Prasad said.
 A senior Chinese official said that Beijing would keep a ''high alert and attention on the euro zone sovereign debt crisis.'' He noted that it could affect not only Europe's economic recovery but also Chinese exports. China exports more to the European Union than to the United States.
 The United States needed a 48-vehicle motorcade to ferry its delegation to this second round of the so-called strategic and economic dialogue. Among the prominent names: the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, the commander of the military's Pacific Command, Adm. Robert F. Willard, and the secretary of health and human services, Kathleen Sebelius.
 Some of the topics under discussion veered far from economics and security. Mrs. Clinton singled out Melanne Verveer, the State Department's ambassador at large for women's issues, who is meeting with Chinese women's groups to discuss their progress in women's rights.
 Mr. Geithner lobbied against Chinese government procurement rules giving preference to products with intellectual property developed in China. American businesses, particularly in technology, say this handicaps them and deprives China of state-of-the-art products. ''Innovation flourishes best when markets are open, competition is fair, and strong protections exist for ideas and inventions,'' he said.
 The Chinese have their pet issues as well: Beijing is pushing Washington to loosen controls on exports of high-technology equipment with potential military applications. A raft of questions from reporters for state-run Chinese media organizations suggested a coordinated campaign.
 If American officials seemed likely to leave China with many of their wishes unfulfilled, there was one notable difference in this year's meeting compared to the one last year in Washington: the American economy is growing again, which gave Mr. Geithner a rare chance to crow a bit.
 Rather than identify the United States with the troubled economies of Europe, Mr. Geithner said the United States was holding its own with emerging economies like Brazil, India, and China.
 ''Economic growth in the U.S. and China is broader and stronger than many had anticipated, even a few months ago,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American and Chinese officials, including Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, posed Monday in Beijing before the beginning of three days of talks. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); EURO CRISIS (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



633 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Blair to Join Venture Firm As Adviser on Technology

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAUSALITO, Calif. -- Tony Blair, the former British prime minister, is turning his attention to Silicon Valley. Mr. Blair is becoming a senior adviser at Khosla Ventures, the venture capital firm founded by Vinod Khosla, an investor and a proponent of green technology. 
 Khosla Ventures, which Mr. Khosla founded in 2004 after leaving the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, made the announcement here on Monday at a meeting of its investors. The firm is investing $1.1 billion in clean technology and information technology companies. 
 Mr. Blair will offer strategic advice on public policy to the firm's green portfolio companies. They include Calera, a manufacturer that uses carbon dioxide to create cement products; Kior, which converts biomass like wood chips into biofuels; and Pax Streamline, which aims to make air-conditioning more environmentally friendly. 
 ''The more I studied the whole climate change issue and linking it with energy security and development issues, I became absolutely convinced that the answer is in the technology,'' Mr. Blair said in an interview. 
 Mr. Blair worked on international climate change policy as prime minister, and now leads the Breaking the Climate Deadlock initiative, through which he aims to help shape international climate policy. 
 Silicon Valley and Washington have a distant and at times adversarial relationship. That is fine when it comes to information technology, Mr. Blair said, because government is not its driving force. 
 Green technology is different, though, because governments are trying to use it to achieve policy goals. ''Technological breakthroughs that are economically viable -- for governments, that's the holy grail,'' he said. 
 Mr. Khosla said that people who worked in technology underestimated the importance of working with policy makers, and that Mr. Blair would help bridge that divide. 
 Like Al Gore and Colin Powell, who are advisers at Kleiner Perkins, Mr. Blair will lend his name to projects, make introductions and dole out advice, but will not be involved in the firm's day-to-day activity. 
 For example, Mr. Blair said, he could potentially help to broker a deal for one of the companies to build a demonstration plant in a particular country. 
 Khosla Ventures, based in Menlo Park, Calif., generally invests between $5 million and $15 million in technology start-ups, and also invests smaller amounts, around $2 million, in what Mr. Khosla calls ''science experiments'' -- green-technology ideas that are so risky and early-stage that they will likely fail. 
 Its goal is to help build technologies that do not require government subsidies to survive and that are economically viable in countries like China and India, Mr. Khosla said. 
 ''We are not trying to do incremental things,'' Mr. Khosla said. ''We are trying to do things that are the stuff of dreams.'' 
 Khosla Ventures is increasing its green-tech investment as most venture capitalists have been scaling back on such investments, particularly those that require building factories to produce alternative energy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Blair, right, with Vinod Khosla on Monday. Mr. Blair plans to offer guidance on public policy and green technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); BIOMASS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (84%); KIOR INC (56%)

TICKER: KIOR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%); VINOD KHOSLA (90%); AL GORE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



634 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Big Hurdles For Britain's New Leader

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- As governments from Greece to Portugal to Spain try to sell markets on their budget-cutting zeal, the country that may face the biggest hurdle is Britain.
 Propelled by a robust economy that finally collapsed in 2008, Britain's spending boom was the most expansive in Europe, producing a welter of shiny hospitals, school buildings and highways, along with a cadre of well-paid public sector officials.
 Now the new government must unwind not so much the debt incurred from two years of economic stimulus efforts, but more broadly, the structural deficits built up over more than a decade of expanded health care, education and pension commitments. 
 Prime Minister David Cameron has talked boldly of closing a British budget deficit now equal to 11 percent of its gross domestic product. But he also has said that he will allow health spending to outpace inflation, continuing a trend started by the Labour government that has doubled the cost of the government's elephantine National Health Service since 2000. 
 It is this apparent disconnect between the promises of politicians and the harsh demands of investors for immediate and across the board spending cuts that is at the root of the financial crisis in Europe today. 
 Even after the nearly $1 trillion rescue package arranged by European Union leaders to shore up the weaker euro zone members, financial markets have gyrated as fears build that debt-plagued nations lack the will to stand up to powerful unions and pare back once generous welfare programs.
 ''You need a martyr to cut this type of deficit,'' said Andrew Lilico, chief economist at Policy Exchange, a right-leaning London research group, who has argued that quick and immediate spending cuts would actually hasten economic recovery rather than derail it. 
 ''You need someone to say, 'I will do the right thing and everyone will hate me.' '' 
 According to a recent analysis by Citigroup, Britain's structural deficit -- meaning the part of the budget gap that will not close even when the economy improves -- was 9.2 percent of G.D.P. last year, ranking third in the world behind rapidly aging Japan and almost bankrupt Greece. 
 As is the case with other countries in Europe, like Spain, Greece and Ireland, Britain has a deficit that has grown mostly because of a decade of rising government outlays that seemed reasonable at the time, but rested heavily on rising tax revenue that disappeared when the bubble burst. 
 In a recent report, the International Monetary Fund warned that the countries that would have to make the biggest sacrifices in spending cuts and tax increases to return to precrisis levels of indebtedness -- Britain, France, Ireland, Spain and the United States -- also face the biggest increase in spending demands. These are driven by the rising number of the elderly, thus making the cuts all the harder to impose. 
 ''All developed economies now have in-built structural components in their government deficits due to having pension and health systems and aging populations,'' said Edward Hugh, an independent economist based in Barcelona. ''And these costs will go up by the year.'' 
 The British chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, who has long urged the Conservative Party to trim the deficit, said on Monday that he would push through $:6 billion ($8.65 billion) in spending cuts. 
 Though decidedly modest when compared with a budget deficit estimated to be about $:178 billion, the cuts represent an effort to convince skittish markets that Mr. Cameron's team is committed to fiscal restraint.
 The latest menu of restrictions, freezes and spending reversals also represents an effort to convince the public that Britain must be in tune with the budget-cutting in Greece, Portugal, Spain and other parts of Europe.
 ''The years of public sector plenty are over,'' Mr. Osborne said. ''The more decisively we act, the more quickly we can come through these tough times.''
 Mr. Cameron has fulminated publicly about cutting public sector pay and decreed that members of Parliament themselves take a 5 percent pay cut. 
 But it remains unclear whether he can force significant savings in what has become in many respects a public sector aristocracy of elite civil servants, heads of national railroads and top officials of obscure agencies, like the National Policing Improvement Agency and the Horserace Betting Levy Board. The heads of those two agencies, for example, were paid salaries last year that exceed Mr. Cameron's pay of $:197,000 (about $284,000) -- $:211,831 and $:220,665, respectively.
 Among the highest paid have been administrators and doctors within the country's government-financed National Health Service, which has become its own separate economy with its 1.7 million employees and $:100 billion plus budget.
 For example, David Taube, a doctor, administrator and medical director for five hospitals comprising the Imperial College Healthcare N.H.S. Trust, was paid $:260,000 (about $375,000) at the exchange rates last year. That is also more than the prime minister received. 
 According to the TaxPayers' Alliance, an advocacy group for spending cuts, the highest-paid 805 government employees in Britain received a 5.4 percent pay increase last year, with the average official taking in $:209,224. 
 Whether it be the $:1.3 million paid to the chief executive of the Royal Mail, the $:267,000 for the head of information technology in the Department for Work and Pensions, or the $:270,000 earned this year by the chief executive of the Guy's and St. Thomas Hospitals in London, the galloping pay of public sector workers in Britain has become a major component of the structural deficit and shows little sign of letting up. 
 ''We have been doing this for five years now, and the numbers just get bigger and bigger,'' said John O'Connell, an analyst at the TaxPayers' Alliance. 
 Starting in 2000, the Labour government made it a priority to improve the N.H.S.'s lackluster reputation and invested billions in bricks and mortar as well as the salaries of its growing ranks of doctors and administrators. 
 Health care spending in Britain soared to 9 percent of G.D.P. from 3 percent. The image of the service has been transformed from one that exemplified drab inefficiencies of the British state to what is now hailed as a world archetype, even by Conservative politicians like Mr. Cameron. 
 As for Dr. Taube, a spokeswoman for the Imperial College Healthcare N.H.S. Trust said that he was a leading renal clinician and that the bulk of his salary, $:180,000 to $:185,000, came from his clinical work. He was paid an additional $:75,000 to $:80,000 for his administrative duties. 
 Now the new government must wrestle with whether it can restrain such pay and spending and at what political cost.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osborne, left, chancellor of the Exchequer, and the chief secretary to the Treasury, David Laws, outlined cuts Monday. (POOL PHOTO BY RUPERT HARTLEY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); EURO (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); GEORGE OSBORNE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) EUROPE (95%); GREECE (94%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (88%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



635 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales in April Top Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Home sales in April surpassed expectations as government incentives provided a temporary lift to the housing market. 
 The National Association of Realtorssaid Monday that sales of previously owned homes rose 7.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.77 million. That was the best showing in five months and better than the 5.63 million units economists had expected.
 The increase in sales ignited a rise in home prices. The median price for a new home rose to $173,100, up 4 percent from a year ago.
 The federal government provided a lift to home sales this spring by offering first-time buyers a tax credit of up to $8,000. Homeowners looking to upgrade could qualify for a credit of up to $6,500. The deadline for getting a signed sales contract was April 30.
 Sales were up in all parts of the country except the West. The gains were led by a 21.1 percent jump in the Northeast and a 9.9 percent rise in the Midwest. Sales also rose 8.6 percent in the South.
 The only region of the country where sales declined was the West, where sales dropped 6.2 percent from March.
 The big question facing the housing market is what happens now that the government's tax credits have expired.
 ''No doubt there will be some temporary fallback in the months immediately after it expires,'' said Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the Realtors.
 But Mr. Yun said that the improving economy had led to an upswing in consumer confidence, which should help support sales in the months ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



636 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS ON SCIENCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Higher Education and the Pursuit of Living High Off the Hog

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
''Tech Transfer'' is the deceptively mild title of a mordant satire about scientists and universities and how they do business. 
 The best scene in this hilarious first novel is a meeting of the trustees of Kershaw University, an elite research university only 200 years younger than Harvard. The trustees have to select a new president. They listen with mounting dismay as the professional headhunter in charge of the search reads out the polished resumes of each candidate, but notes in each case the fatal flaws revealed by background checks, ranging from spousal abuse to bestiality and, even more fatal, plagiarism. 
 As the trustees hasten to leave for the airport, they agree on a nonentity, Mark Winner, an economics professor with a thin resume and a clean rap sheet.
 The author, Daniel S. Greenberg, is a leading science journalist with a deep knowledge of the academic world and science policy. He edited the news section of Science magazine for many years and then a newsletter, Science and Government Report. Seeking to add an extra dimension to the waste, fraud and abuse he was reporting, Mr. Greenberg from time to time would run ''interviews'' with an increasingly celebrated scientific entrepreneur, ''Dr. Grant Swinger'' of the Center for the Absorption of Federal Funds. 
 Dr. Swinger's specialty lay in instantly redirecting his center's activities to whatever scientific fad was highest on legislators' priority list. He would have been first to set up a stem-cell research institute and get the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine to promise him a building.
 ''Tech Transfer'' is the world of Dr. Swinger writ large, populated by scientific entrepreneurs who have learned how to absorb federal funds, suppress charges of malfeasance and live high off the hog. When Dr. Winner assumes the presidency of Kershaw University, he learns the folly of challenging the tenured faculty on any of their sacrosanct, non-negotiable issues:
 ''These included annual pay increases, lax to near-non-existent conflict-of-interest and conflict-of-commitment regulations, and ample pools of powerless grad students, postdocs and adjuncts to minimize professorial workloads. As a safety net, the faculty favored disciplinary procedures that virtually assured acquittal of members accused of abusing subordinates, seducing students, committing plagiarism, fabricating data, or violating the one-day-a-week limit on money-making outside dealings.''
 As background to a pleasantly light-hearted plot, ''Tech Transfer'' includes delicious riffs on the hollowness of the Harvard mystique, on the idleness and self-indulgence of the student body, and on the necessity of marketing a $50,000 a year college education as a luxury good, similar to those newspaper advertisements for $15,000 watches that work no better than a Timex. And there is a fine parody of a New York Times editorial thrown in for good measure.
 It probably is not giving away too much of the plot to report that Dr. Winner, after his eventful presidency of Kershaw University, fails upward and is nominated to fill a vacancy in the United States Senate. Readers will hope that the author is laying the ground for a sequel and that Dr. Winner has many more undeserved triumphs ahead of him.
 TECH TRANSFER: Science, Money, Love and the Ivory Tower. By Daniel S. Greenberg. Kanawha Press. 278 pages., $11.45. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (89%); PLAGIARISM (89%); SCHOOL CHEATING (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Tech Transfer (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



637 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: A Behind-the-Scenes Firm Is Caught in the Spotlight

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and TOM ZELLER Jr.; Andrew W. Lehren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Transocean's corporate motto is ''We're never out of our depth.''
 But after last month's fatal explosion on a Transocean oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, that assertion is open to question.
 BP, which leased the platform from Transocean, has repeatedly emphasized that the rig and its safe operation were Transocean's responsibility. Meanwhile, Congressional investigators have raised questions about Transocean's maintenance and its modification of the rig's blowout preventer -- the system of valves and rams positioned at the seafloor that was supposed to seal the well in case of emergency.
 Although Transocean has denied any wrongdoing and says BP is responsible for the costs of the accident, investors are unconvinced. Transocean shares plunged 9 percent on Monday, as 18 Democratic lawmakers asked for an investigation into the company's recent decision to pay a $1 billion dividend to shareholders. Since the April 20 explosion, Transocean's stock has fallen 41 percent, while BP's has dropped 31 percent.
 Throughout its history, Transocean has been known for pushing the envelope. The company, the leading player in offshore oil drilling, proudly breaks records for drilling the deepest wells, while finding ways to keep oil and gas flowing under the most extreme pressures and temperatures. On the financial side, Transocean has pursued aggressive tax strategies and bought up competitors. 
 The sinking of the Deepwater Horizon platform and the widening oil spill from the underwater well has damaged the company's image of discipline and technological know-how. It has also dragged the secretive company and its chief executive, Steven L. Newman, uncomfortably into the public eye.
 ''Transocean is dominant, but the accident has definitely tarnished its reputation for worker safety and for being able to manage and deliver on extraordinarily complex deepwater projects,'' said Christopher Ruppel, an energy expert and managing director of capital markets at Execution Noble, an investment bank. ''The story of this tragic accident will play on for weeks and months, continuing to put Transocean and its work into question.''
 A memorial service is planned Tuesday in Jackson, Miss., for the 11 people who died in the gulf accident.
 Transocean, which employs more than 18,000 people, operates a fleet of 139 offshore rigs and drill vessels in 30 countries. It owns nearly half of the 50 or so deepwater platforms in the world.
 A predecessor company was the first to deploy jack-up drilling rigs that could stand on the ocean floor. Transocean was the first company to drill year-round in the frigid North Sea, and it was the first to run a drill ship capable of working in 10,000 feet of water. In September, the company claimed the record for the deepest offshore well after it finished one for BP in the Gulf of Mexico that was 35,050 feet in vertical depth.
 Now Transocean might be in the record books for a less stellar achievement: contributing to what some experts predict will become the biggest accidental oil spill in history.
 Company officials declined repeated interview requests.
 In testimony to Congress and comments to securities analysts last week, Mr. Newman, who was promoted to chief executive in March, said he could not yet give definitive answers for the causes of the accident, which killed 11 people.
 ''We will work very hard to understand what happened this time around, and we will implement whatever recommendations come out of that analysis such that this doesn't happen again,'' Mr. Newman told a Senate committee.
 One crucial question is whether Transocean compromised safety in the Deepwater Horizon accident.
 Stephen Stone, who worked as a roustabout on the platform, said in an interview that safety policies were important at Transocean ''if you have time.''
 ''But if it's a rush, then you kind of overlook it,'' said Mr. Stone, who is suing the company and others for personal injuries and economic losses.
 An examination by The New York Times of Transocean's pollution and accident record showed that it had performed on a par with other companies working in the gulf. Before the Deepwater Horizon accident, Transocean's current drilling vessels had accounted for about 15 percent of 777,000 gallons of chemicals and petroleum spills in the last decade in the gulf, based on a review of completed investigations by the United States Coast Guard.
 Still, the company's board suspended executive bonuses for 2009 after four workers died in separate incidents on separate rigs in different countries.
 When Mr. Newman was asked by a senator last week if the Deepwater Horizon accident demonstrated a greater interest in profit than safety, he responded, ''We will never compromise safety in pursuit of customer satisfaction.''
 In one sign of that commitment, Mr. Newman promised to perform a Bollywood-style dance number if Transocean's employees in India topped the company's safety charts for two years running. In February 2009, after they hit the target, he gamely gyrated on stage, backed up by four dancing women. The performance was captured on video for a company magazine.
 That image of Mr. Newman contrasts with his solemn, brooding presence at the Congressional hearings about the accident. His square jaw and bald head have given the former rig manager and Harvard Business School graduate the mien of a boxer at the witness table.
 He has, at times, visibly bristled at the ring of eyeballs and television cameras -- as well as the technologically unsophisticated questions of lawmakers unfamiliar with the offshore drilling industry.
 ''You are the manufacturer of the blowout preventer that did not work,'' declared Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, at a hearing last week.
 ''We are not the manufacturer of the blowout preventer,'' Mr. Newman responded coolly. ''We own the blowout preventer.'' The device was manufactured by Cameron.
 Between Congressional hearings, Mr. Newman has traveled back to Transocean's new headquarters in Zug, Switzerland. The company, which had formerly been based in the Cayman Islands and earlier, in Houston, moved to Switzerland in 2008 after years of tax disputes with the United States government over Transocean's treatment of losses and capital gains.
 Those disputes, totaling $698 million, are unresolved, and the company is involved in tax dispute in Norway.
 As oil companies have sought oil in ever-deeper waters around the world, Transocean's revenues have grown an average of 34 percent annually since 2004, according to Morningstar.
 The company has a backlog of over $30 billion in contracts, none of which have been canceled since the accident. Some of its growth has come from decades of acquisitions, in particular its merger with GlobalSantaFe nearly three years ago.
 Most analysts and legal experts say Transocean's liabilities in the gulf spill are probably limited. Under its contract for the Deepwater Horizon, BP agreed to assume all losses, expenses, fines and claims for pollution or contamination. And under the Oil Pollution Act, the well'sowners, principally BP, are responsible for paying for cleanup costs.
 Transocean is trying hard to protect itself. It has filed a petition in United States District Court in Houston to limit its liability to $26.7 million, trying to use a clause in an 1851 maritime law to hold liability to the value of the rig and its cargo.
 BP would probably be able to recover damages from Transocean only if investigators found the company was guilty of gross negligence, said Tracy Hester, a visiting assistant law professor at the University of Houston.
 Transocean is also facing a multitude of lawsuits for the 11 deaths and myriad injuries caused by the Deepwater Horizon explosion.
 The company carries $950 million of third-party liability coverage for personal injuries and property damage. But even if its out-of-pocket costs for the accident are minimal, that is surely little solace for a multinational corporation that had come to see itself -- through its technological derring-do and its ability to push the frontiers of offshore drilling -- as exceptional.
 In an interview published in a Transocean corporate magazine before the accident, Mr. Newman was asked where he would like to see the company in the next five or 10 years.
 ''I think the hallmark of our organization has always been around innovation and technology development,'' Mr. Newman replied. Asked what the company could be doing better, he said, ''First of all, we have to improve our safety performance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Tuesday about Transocean, the owner of the oil rig that exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in April, misstated, in some editions, the year that Steven L. Newman became the company's chief executive. It was March 2010, not March 2009. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vessels at work last week trying to contain the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Steven L. Newman, Transocean's chief executive, testified about the oil rig accident before Congress last week. Members of the Green Party protested on May 15 outside Transocean's headquarters in Zug, Switzerland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SIGI TISCHLER/KEYSTONE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OCEANS (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OIL SPILLS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (72%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010



638 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: New Credit Card Database Is Heroic, and Mystifying

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Monday introduced an online database listing the terms and conditions of more than 300 credit card issuers to help consumers find a card that best suits their personal finance needs.
 But the database, mandated under the far-reaching credit card legislation signed by President Obama last May, contains only the raw text of card agreements, which are so densely worded that only the most dedicated customer, perhaps one with a legal degree, could glean value from them, several consumer advocates said.
 Take, for example, this section from a PNC Bank card agreement: ''We will calculate finance charges on cash advances by multiplying the 'average daily balance of cash advances' by the total number of days in the billing cycle, and multiplying the product by the daily periodic rate of finance charge then in effect. 
 ''The daily periodic rate of finance charge for each billing cycle shall be a rate computed by adding a margin ('Margin For Cash Advances') to the value of the index and dividing by 365. The corresponding annual percentage rate will be the index plus the Margin For Cash Advances.'' 
 Got it?
 ''It's hard for the average consumer to read the dense text of a credit card agreement and comparison-shop,'' said Chi Chi Wu, a staff lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center in Boston. Even so, she added, ''While it may be hard for consumers to read them, it is important that they be publicly available.''
 The database contains about 1,000 card agreements from more than 300 issuers. It does not include issuers with fewer than 10,000 open credit card accounts. Nor does it include agreements on cards that are no longer being offered, as some advocates had sought. 
 The legislation, the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act, required card issuers to inform customers before they increased rates or other fees and to explain how long it would take them to pay off their balances.
 Among other things, the act also forbade companies in most cases from increasing interest rates in the first year after a customer has opened an account; required customers to consent to being allowed to make purchases that took them over their credit limit; made it harder for those under 21 to open an account; and required issuers to mail bills at least 21 days before the payment is due.
 Tucked within the law was a provision sponsored by Representative Mark Schauer, Democrat of Michigan, which required card issuers to post their written agreements on their Web sites and required the Fed to compile those agreements and make them available online.
 ''What I found is that some of the predatory lenders didn't have Web sites and didn't make available even this basic information,'' he said in a phone interview. ''I felt it was important to have a source for one-stop shopping so consumers could have easy access to all of the plans that are available.'' 
 Mr. Schauer said he hoped the Fed and the Obama administration would work to make the information more user-friendly.
 The Fed set an initial deadline of Feb. 22 for the card companies to submit their agreements, and planned to update the site quarterly. The next set of submissions is due on Aug. 10.
 Credit cards used to have a fixed interest rate of about 20 percent and a small number of fees. In the 1990s, however, credit card issuers began issuing cards with a greater variety of interest rates and fees, according to a 2006 report by the Government Accountability Office. 
 ''Although half of adults in the United States read at or below the eighth-grade level, most of the credit card materials were written at a 10th- to 12th-grade level,'' the report found. ''In addition, the required disclosures were often poorly organized, burying important information in text or scattering information about a single topic in numerous places.''
 Critics maintained that credit card companies purposely made the terms and conditions complicated to trick consumers with hair-trigger interest rate increases and fees.
 The nation's two largest credit card issuers, Bank of America and Chase Bank, have both taken steps in recent years to make agreements easier to understand. During the last year, for instance, Bank of America boiled the terms down to one page and sent it to its consumers in a ''clarity'' statement.
 Meanwhile, Chase Bank, which is part of JPMorgan Chase, revised its terms and conditions after the release of the G.A.O. report in 2006. ''We certainly acknowledge we still can do a better job, but we have made some progress,'' said Paul Hartwick, a Chase spokesman.
 A number of Web sites have sprung up in recent years that boil down the terms and conditions into language most consumers can understand. Still, several people who run such sites said they saw value in the Fed's database, in case a consumer misplaced the terms and conditions or had a dispute with the issuer. 
 ''The terms and conditions of a credit card are really what one needs in order to shop for a credit cards,'' said Bill Hardekopf, who runs one such site, LowCards.com. ''You can't just look at the advertised slogan.''
 But he added: ''Most definitely they are difficult to read. Not just difficult, they are boring.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Under legislation passed last year, credit card issuers had to put their card agreements online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PREDATORY LENDING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%)

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: MARK SCHAUER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



639 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: As Cap and Trade Falls Short, Europe Weighs New Tacks to Cut Carbon

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Carbon trading was meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union by making polluting more expensive for heavy industries, encouraging them to invest in cleaner technology. But even supporters admit that the system, also known as cap and trade, is falling far short of that goal. Critics decry it as just another form of financial profiteering with little environmental benefit.
 Carbon traders, for example, have been arrested for tax fraud; evidence has emerged of lucrative projects that may do nothing to curb climate change; and steel and cement companies have booked huge profits selling surplus permits they received for free. 
 This week, two disparate groups -- one representing businesses, the other European regulators -- are recommending potentially complementary steps to revive the system. Their goal also is to promote its adoption in such countries as the United States and Australia, where efforts have stalled amid economic concerns.
 The International Emissions Trading Association, or I.E.T.A. -- whose members include global banks and power companies, among others -- is proposing the creation of a ''green bond'' to supplement a United Nations system that has failed to generate the levels of investment that bankers had hoped for.
 ''Estimates of the costs to reduce emissions keep rising, but the private sector is increasingly reluctant to invest in new projects,'' said Imtiaz Ahmad, an executive director at Morgan Stanley in London, which is a member of the group. A green bond would have ''the potential to cut through the current impasse and stimulate clean technologies globally.''
 Also on Wednesday, the E.U. commissioner for climate action, Connie Hedegaard, intends to outline moves that could dramatically raise the price of polluting in Europe -- if European governments go along.
 Under carbon trading, governments place a ''cap'' on emissions from certain industries, issue a set amount of permits to companies and require them to purchase more if they exceed their limit. Companies that pollute less can ''trade,'' or sell their surplus permits.
 The permits are traded on several exchanges throughout Europe, which dominates a global industry worth about $140 billion a year.
 Each permit, representing a ton of carbon, currently costs around $19, but most experts agree that permits need to cost around four times as much to make them cost-effective enough to build cleaner systems, like offshore wind farms and solar power plants.
 So far, governments in the Union, which has operated the world's largest mandatory system since 2005, have repeatedly overestimated the amount of gases that companies emit, resulting in too many permits being issued.
 The global recession also has idled factories, leaving heavy polluters like the steel company ArcelorMittal and Lafarge, a cement maker, with a huge excess of carbon permits. Some have sold their permits for millions of euros.
 In the United States, the cap-and-trade idea still is supported by the administration of President Barack Obama, but has stalled in Congress amid concern that U.S. industry would be hobbled if major countries in the developing world continue to resist cutting their emissions.
 The bankers' suggestion for a green bond would represent another way for Europeans and Americans to shift at least some of the burden for protecting the climate onto rising powers like China and India and other emerging markets, such as Kenya and Malaysia.
 Under the system established under the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, banks and others are encouraged to finance carbon-reduction projects in countries in exchange for permits that can be sold on carbon markets in Europe.
 But that system has been plagued with difficulties and the United Nations, which monitors it, has delayed a number of investments because of dubious emissions reductions. Currently, carbon trading under the U.N. mechanism is only worth about $4 billion annually, and Western banks are reluctant to increase their stakes because of the uncertainty, according to Henry Derwent, the president of I.E.T.A.
 Under the proposed new system, banks and financiers would buy ''green bonds'' backed by guarantees from international lenders, possibly including the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, according to Mr. Derwent.
 Developing nations would service debts on the low-interest bonds, partly by selling streams of carbon permits into international markets. And to ensure the carbon reductions were real, representatives from international lenders would punish countries that failed to make proper cuts in emissions by raising their future costs of borrowing for such programs.
 I.E.T.A. plans to formally propose the measure at a major three-day trade fair for carbon markets in Cologne that it has organized in conjunction with the World Bank. The fair starts on Wednesday.
 Vikram Widge, the global head for carbon finance at the International Finance Corporation, an affiliate of the World Bank, said his group issued a green bond of its own this year but without the prospect of the kind of penalties Mr. Derwent envisages. He noted that I.F.C. works only with the private sector in emerging markets, but that such guarantees as proposed by I.E.T.A. might be considered by the World Bank, which works with governments.
 For such a system to work, the European Union also would have to approve the use of carbon permits from the green bond system.
 Ms. Hedegaard's proposal, which is to be voted on Wednesday by the European Commission, also could represent a huge boost for carbon markets.
 The paper says the recession and subsequent fall in pollution made reaching the agreed-on target for emission reductions -- 20 percent from 1990 levels -- more manageable, and it says that surplus permits and other factors could even make cutting emissions by as much as 30 percent viable.
 Among other things, she was to outline ways in which national governments could withhold large quantities of permits from the market to raise demand and increase their price, according to officials who had seen the latest draft. They asked not to be identified because the official announcement would be made on Wednesday and could still be modified.
 Ms. Hedegaard also would leave the way open to recognizing future credits from reductions made overseas, including the existing U.N. system or from new projects like the green bonds.
 If the European Commission agrees on the report Wednesday, it then would formally call on E.U. heads of state and governments to consider the proposals at a summit meeting on June 17.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Connie Hedegaard.
 Steam and smoke over a power plant in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. Ideas on how to improve the carbon-trading system will be presented at a trade fair this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN MEISSNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS CREDITS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CEMENT MFG (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ARRESTS (76%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%); TAX FRAUD (56%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (60%); MT (PAR) (60%); MT (NYSE) (60%); MT (AMS) (60%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (60%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



640 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 ASSASSINATION AND TURMOIL 
 Roil Post-Election Iraq
 A newly elected member of Iraq's Parliament was shot and killed in northern Iraq, an ominous development in a contentious postelection impasse that has fueled fears of renewed violence.
 PAGE A4 
 CRITICISM FOR BRAZIL LEADER
 After Brazil and Turkey forged a deal with Iran to exchange uranium, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil returned home to a cloud of criticism by opinion-makers and lawmakers who questioned whether the mission had been naive, or worse, detrimental to the nation's standing. PAGE A10
 National
 CRIME RATES FELL IN 2009
 Despite Sluggish Economy
 Despite turmoil in the economy and high unemployment, crime rates fell significantly across the United States in 2009, according to a report released by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A bureau spokesman declined to speculate about any explanation for the trend. PAGE A15
 COURT BACKS FIREFIGHTERS
 In a case that carried echoes of two of its most divisive decisions in recent years, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that black firefighters in Chicago did not miss a deadline to argue that the city used an employment test in a way that disproportionately hurt their chances. PAGE A15
 New York
 DEVELOPING YOUNG TASTES
 Beyond the Children's Menu
 Nicola Marzovilla, who runs the Gramercy Park restaurant, I Trulli, welcomes young children at his establishment, and is not above serving a simple appetizer portion of pasta to please little ones. But he has strong opinions about food, and children's menus aim too low, he argues -- they're a parenting crutch. Susan Dominus, Big City. PAGE A19
 Business
 NEW BRITISH LEADER
 Faces Hurdles on Economy
 The new government of Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain must unwind not so much the debt incurred from two years of economic stimulus efforts, but more broadly, the structural deficits built up over more than a decade of expanded health care, education and pension commitments. PAGE B1
 MADOFF VICTIMS SETTLE
 About 720,000 investors outside the United States who lost money to the convicted swindler Bernard L. Madoff have settled with their banks, receiving about $15.5 billion in all, according to law firms representing those victims of the fraud. PAGE B1
 REVIEW OF TELECOM LAW
 Two top Democratic legislators said that they would begin a process to modernize telecommunications laws that were last overhauled in 1996 but barely mention the Internet. PAGE B2
 Sports
 ACCUSATIONS RING LOUD,
 But Not the Denials
 As an investigation led by the United States Anti-Doping Agency and federal agents ensues about doping in the cycling world, many riders have been relatively quiet after being accused of using performance enhancing drugs by Floyd Landis, who was stripped of a Tour de France title. PAGE B10
 Arts
 PARTIES FOR 'MOCKINGBIRD,' 
 But Don't Expect Author
 All summer ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' will be relived through at least 50 events around the country, in honor of the 50th anniversary of the publication of a book that became a cultural touchstone. But the festivities are not expected to attract an appearance by its author, the mysterious Harper Lee, who is 84 and still living quietly in Alabama never having published another book. PAGE C1
 Science Times
 PEDIATRICIANS URGE LABELS
 On Food That Can Choke
 The American Academy of Pediatrics, the nation's leading pediatricians' group, is arguing that food should be subject to as much scrutiny as toys. It is calling on the Food and Drug Administration to require warning labels on foods that are known choking hazards, and to evaluate and monitor food for safety. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A23
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (84%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); TRENDS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); PARENTING (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (60%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (78%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010



641 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Empty Desks May Slow Upturn In Real Estate

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Despite rosy news about job growth in New York and the prospect of a rebound in commercial real estate, the market's recovery could be delayed by a large amount of vacant office space that would normally be sublet or otherwise absorbed in a healthy market, new data show. 
 According to the research firm CoStar Group, nearly 18 million square feet of unoccupied office space in Manhattan has not been factored into the market's vacancy rate. This so-called shadow space consists of individual desks as well as entire floors that are empty after layoffs and consolidations. Because these vacant areas are not for rent, they are not recorded anywhere and so are hard to pinpoint. 
 As the economy improves and employment picks up, tenants will spend the next several years backfilling these shadow spaces before venturing into the leasing market. That will postpone a rise in commercial rents and drive down building values.
 ''There's no doubt that shadow space is going to mute a recovery,'' said Robert L. Freedman, the chairman of the tristate region for Colliers International, a commercial real estate firm. Mr. Freedman said he expected that rents would not rise for at least three years. The amount of shadow space will also weaken the investment sales market, said Robert A. Knakal, the chairman of Massey Knakal. Vacancy and positive absorption -- a net increase in demand for space -- ''are two of the most important metrics'' for building values, he said.
 CoStar determined the amount of shadow space by taking the unemployment figures in New York City from the first quarter of 2008 through the first quarter of 2010 -- roughly 104,000 jobs lost -- and multiplying this by 250 square feet, the industry standard for how much space each employee uses. This resulted in 26.1 million square feet that should have been vacated during the downturn. Instead, only 8.5 million square feet was put on the market -- a 17.6-million-square-foot discrepancy. This results in a vacancy rate of 11.2 percent rather than 7.9 percent, with roughly 15 additional quarters of growth needed to fill that space, according to CoStar. 
 ''We have found that shadow space poses a real risk to recovery,'' said Aaron Jodka, a real estate economist at CoStar. ''And if anything, we are being conservative with these numbers.''
 James P. Stuckey, a dean at the Schack Institute of Real Estate at New York University and a former executive vice president for the developer Forest City Ratner, agreed. ''These figures make sense. Shadow space is always an issue during downturns as companies grapple with how best to handle it.''
 It is normal for tenants to hold on to some shadow space, typically maintaining a 5 percent vacancy to give them flexibility for hiring or layoffs. The extent of the job losses in the city over the last few years, however, has pushed the shadow inventory to 10 percent for many tenants, leasing brokers said. 
 There are several reasons companies hold onto this excess space, one of the most common being the difficulty of subdividing it and creating a contiguous block for lease. 
 ''If you have one million square feet spread across 25 floors, that shadow space may be a few seats here, a few offices there,'' said Robert J. Alexander, chairman of the tristate region for CB Richard Ellis. ''It would be really expensive to consolidate this.'' In addition, with office rents low, it is not clear that the tenant could even recoup their costs should they put the space on the market. 
 Perhaps an even larger factor driving companies' decisions is the financial write-downs incurred when subleasing vacant space. When a tenant puts sublease space on the market, it must set aside a financial reserve to account for any projected losses between the rents they are paying and their sublease terms. This reserve depresses short-term earnings, something that many companies, especially those already under financial duress, are reluctant to do. 
 While it is nearly impossible to determine the magnitude of the write-downs for individual tenants, it is ''a very important component when big companies make decisions. They won't make a major strategic real estate decision until they understand the financial implications,'' said Robert Goodman, an executive managing director at Colliers International who spent several years at Merrill Lynch and specializes in financial firms. 
 In addition to subleasing shadow space, it is also possible to pay the landlord to get out of a lease term. This can be difficult to negotiate, since landlords are often unwilling to take a chance on finding a replacement tenant. 
 Still, several tenants are now venturing into the market, and if they are successful, it could burn off some shadow inventory. Citigroup, for example, is offering more than 130,000 square feet on three floors at 111 Wall Street, a building they own, according to CoStar. In addition, the CIT Group is putting some 130,000 square feet at 505 Fifth Avenue on the market while JPMorgan Chase is looking to shed in excess of 300,000 feet at 245 Park Avenue, said Cynthia Wasserberger, a managing director at Jones Lang LaSalle. 
 Perhaps the most vulnerable area is Downtown Manhattan, which has roughly five million square feet of space available. ''Generally, downtown is going to experience more of an impact from all this shadow space than Midtown,'' Ms. Wasserberger said. 
 For example, Goldman Sachs is vacating several buildings to move into its new headquarters, Bank of America is giving up a huge block at the World Financial Center, and both the American International Group and JPMorgan Chase are shedding offices. And there will be new space coming online at the World Trade Center. 
 ''Shadow space is difficult to determine, but any way you slice it, it is a significant factor in the recovery,'' said Benjamin F. Kursman, a partner at the law firm Herrick, Feinstein who specializes in leasing deals. ''Even as we see some green shoots in the economy, this is definitely going to be a drag on the resurgence of the commercial real estate market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''If anything, we are being conservative with these numbers,'' said Aaron Jodka, an economist with the CoStar Group in Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



642 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Four Ways To a Better Finance Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 Democrats say their financial regulation plan will vastly reduce the odds of a future crisis and ensure that taxpayers won't ever again have to pay for banks' sins. Skeptics worry -- and with good reason -- that the White House and Congress are being a little too confident.
 Financial crises are complex beasts. Even after they're over, people have trouble agreeing on exactly what caused them. 
 So the Obama administration and Congress were smart to avoid the magic bullet trap: the wishful idea that one sweeping solution, like breaking up the banks, could prevent the next crisis. Their goal instead has been to improve financial regulation in dozens of ways, making it harder for tomorrow's regulators to do as poor a job as yesterday's. 
 But as the House and Senate begin merging their separate bills into a single bill, they still have a chance to make some important improvements. Here are four issues to watch in coming weeks:
 DERIVATIVES They're easy to hate and hard to understand. Derivatives are contracts that allow people to make bets, be it on the price of corn, the future of interest rates or a pool of subprime mortgages. 
 Their economic purpose is that they allow companies to hedge risk. If soaring fuel prices have the potential to bankrupt an airline, it can buy a derivative that pays off if prices jump. Southwest Airlines did exactly this a few years ago.
 Unfortunately, many investors used debt to buy their derivatives. When the value of the derivatives fell, the investors had little margin for error. The fact that most deals were done privately -- rather than through a clearinghouse, with prices everyone can see -- made the situation worse by creating uncertainty.
 The House bill would force some trades into a clearinghouse but would allow far too many exemptions. The Senate bill is stronger. It's probably too strong, in fact. It effectively bans many big firms from trading the most lucrative type of derivatives. That's not so different from a ban on subprime mortgages, which, of course, also helped cause the crisis. Both derivatives and subprime mortgages can play a useful role. They just need to be closely watched. 
 The Senate rule, however, does have a silver lining. Wall Street lobbyists have devoted so much energy to fighting the ban that they have not had as much time to fight other (better) parts of the bill that they also dislike -- like the Senate's clearinghouse. 
 CONSUMER PROTECTION Why didn't any government agency prevent banks from issuing mortgages that homebuyers obviously could not repay? 
 There were two main reasons: the responsibility for doing so was spread across a handful of agencies, and the most important of those agencies, the Federal Reserve, has never been good at protecting consumers. 
 So both the House and Senate would create a new consumer watchdog for credit cards, mortgages and other financial products. In the House version, the watchdog is a separate agency. In the Senate version, it is housed inside the Fed -- which is less than ideal, given the Fed's history of deferring to banks. But it's not a disaster, because the Senate was careful to create an independent budget for the group and let the White House appoint its director.
 As Elizabeth Warren, the law professor who developed the watchdog idea, told me, ''The consumer agency in the Senate bill is strong, but there is no margin for error.'' You can expect lenders, ranging from big banks to car dealers, to try to weaken the agency during House-Senate talks.
 FED CREDIBILITY The Fed still has accepted almost no responsibility for its mistakes during the housing bubble. ''Like other regulators, there were some things we could have done, at least with hindsight,'' Ben Bernanke, the chairman, recently said. ''But we had neither the mandate nor the tools to be the financial system's supercop.''
 Reading that, you might think that the bubble was evident only in retrospect and that, regardless, the Fed was powerless to stop it. That's simply not the case. A fair number of people did recognize the bubble as it was inflating. The Fed's leaders, by contrast, went out of their way to claim real estate was not in a bubble.
 Imagine if Mr. Bernanke and Alan Greenspan had used their bully pulpit to point out how high house prices were relative to rents or incomes. Or imagine if they had cracked down on delusional mortgages, as their consumer protection powers gave them the authority to do -- and as they finally did only after the bubble burst. 
 Despite the Fed's failures, Congress is giving it vast new powers, largely because there is no better alternative. Most important, the Fed will decide how much debt banks can take on, a standard that will help determine how well they weather the next crisis. Yet neither the Fed's leaders nor President Obama, who reappointed Mr. Bernanke, has explained why we should believe the Fed has learned from its errors.
 Congress can do better. The Senate bill calls for an audit of the Fed's actions during the crisis (which were, in fact, pretty heroic). Why not expand the time frame to the run-up to the crisis? The Senate would also create an independent unit inside Treasury, the Office of Financial Research, that could identify problems even if the Fed did not. 
 The more checks and balances on the Fed, the better the odds of avoiding another crisis. Fool me once, right?
 BAILOUTS No matter how much those odds are reduced, however, they won't be eliminated. Banks will get in trouble again, just as they have for hundreds of years. The government may then need to prop up a bank to avoid another panic.
 The Senate bill -- which is likely to win on this point, because the White House agrees -- would cover the costs of any such bailout by collecting money later from surviving banks. The House would collect fees up front and place them in a fund. Both approaches have their problems. The House's fund seems too small, and the Senate's after-the-fact fee may not be so easy to collect after a crisis has passed. 
 A better approach is a permanent tax on banks, based on how much debt they have and how risky their holdings appear. This has the double advantage of discouraging risky behavior while also making sure taxpayers are made whole. And if banks end up paying more in taxes than they eventually need in bailouts, that's O.K. They have enjoyed plenty of subsidies and plenty of bailouts over the years.
 A bank tax will not make it into this bill. But Congressional leaders have said they may take up the issue later this year. As flawed as the Senate bill is on this issue, it at least does not get in the way of a future tax.
 It's worth remembering that whatever bill Congress passes will not be the last word on financial regulation. How well the Fed and other agencies carry out the law will matter greatly, and Congress will probably need to pass other, albeit smaller, bills in the future.
 ''This bill isn't remotely perfect, but I think it gets us two-thirds of the way to where we ought to be,'' said Douglas Elliott, a Brookings Institution finance expert. ''In the real world, that's pretty good.''
 Here's hoping the House, the Senate and the White House can get a little further -- say, three-quarters of the way to perfection -- in the next few weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); AIRLINES (65%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (54%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



643 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: A Quirky Building That Has Charmed Its Tenants

BYLINE: By HELENE STAPINSKI

 BODY:
The Flatiron Building's triangular shape, designed by Daniel Burnham, and its location at the junction of Broadway and Fifth Avenue at 23rd Street, have made it a New York landmark. But that grandeur is skin deep: the interior is a warren of awkward spaces that do not easily accommodate modern office furniture or encourage casual collaboration among workers. And the men's and women's bathrooms are on alternating floors.
 So when an Italian developer last year bought a majority interest in the Flatiron and raised the idea that the building could be converted to a luxury hotel, it seemed logical that workers in the building would be thrilled at the prospect of moving to a better space. 
 Not so. 
 ''Everyone will be dragged kicking and screaming from here,'' said Airie Stuart, publisher of Palgrave, an imprint of Macmillan Publishers. 
 Ms. Stuart, like many of her 600 or so Macmillan co-workers, has a special allegiance to the 180,000-square-foot Flatiron. Though it is hard to configure office space in a triangle, she said, ''the charm makes up for it. It's legend.''
 Macmillan, which rents the whole building except for the commercial space on the ground floor, has slowly taken over all the office space since its St. Martin's Press imprint moved there in 1969. 
 Macmillan signed a new lease six years ago, which places the rent about equal to the current recession-market rates. Macmillan is paying about $30 a square foot; rents in the neighborhood had been over $40, according to Newmark Knight Frank, the building's managing agent. 
 Eight and a half years remain on Macmillan's lease. Veronica Mainetti, managing director, USA, for the Sorgente Group, the developer, said on Tuesday that no decision had been made on the building.
 Because of its footprint and location, the Flatiron has problems and perks that other buildings do not. The swirling winds generated by its shape are said to have inspired the phrase ''23 skidoo'' -- what police officers would say as they dispersed the men who gathered outside to linger and watch for women's skirts to blow up as they passed. 
 Those winds blew in Peter Janssen's 21st-floor window at the point of the building a few winters ago. The terra cotta balustrade outside his office had been removed during a renovation, allowing an already strong west wind to become even stronger. 
 ''I came in to find the window on the floor and a 1,200-page manuscript all over the place,'' said Mr. Janssen, director for academic and library marketing at Macmillan. 
 The 21st floor, which was added in 1905, three years after the rest was completed, can be reached only by taking a second elevator from the 20th floor. Though he loves his office, he said it could be a lonely place.
 ''You don't get a lot of people walking by,'' Mr. Janssen said. He compares it to being in a situation comedy: ''Guest stars come by every now and then.''
 On the 20th floor, windows are placed much higher up, the bottoms nearly at chest height. ''I have an incredible view,'' said Charles Bozian, Macmillan's vice president for finance and administration. ''But not unless I stand up.''
 The small bathrooms alternate by floor, men on even, women on odd. ''And the bathrooms are not very nice, either,'' said Alison Lazarus, the president of Macmillan's sales division. When important guests visit, she has them use the spacious bathroom on the 18th floor, by far the building's best, offering a view all the way to New Jersey.
 Because the building is narrow, it is flooded with light. Most employees have windows -- big windows, which is a plus for the most part.
 John J. Murphy III, director of publicity for St. Martin's, remembers when he bought new glasses and then came into work. ''I was sitting at my desk, and everyone kept coming in and looking at me oddly,'' Mr. Murphy said. He then realized that because of all the light in the building, his tinted lenses never turned clear. ''I looked like some Greek shipping magnate or shady drug dealer sitting here at my desk,'' he said.
 The elevator bank, the waiting area and the stairway eat up an unusual amount of space. ''We've used every nook and cranny,'' said Steve Cohen, executive vice president and chief operating officer for St. Martin's. ''You're lucky if you get 70 percent of the floor space.'' 
 Mr. Cohen, one of the building's biggest admirers, has a huge collection of old postcards featuring the building, as do many of his co-workers. He has an old photograph of tourists outside on a sightseeing carriage.
 Mr. Cohen also can claim to have experienced the notorious hydraulic elevator malfunction of 1998. The old elevators, which were subsequently replaced, were run with water pressure and were slow and bouncy. ''You needed a plumber to fix them, not a mechanic,'' said the superintendent, Sunny Atis.
 One day, the hydraulic system burst, flooding Mr. Cohen's elevator car and soaking him. The doors opened on the third floor, and he and the water came rushing out. 
 The elevators were so slow that one executive claims you could read an entire manuscript while waiting for one and then riding it up. Mr. Murphy lived in a high-rise right across the street from the Flatiron for 15 years. ''My commute,'' he said, ''was a half hour.'' 
 After John Sargent arrived 14 years ago as chief executive, a poll was taken to see if the employees wanted to relocate to a newer building in the neighborhood with an open floor plan. But the overwhelming response was to stay put. 
 ''I never, never wanted to leave,'' said Matthew Shear, executive vice president and publisher at St. Martin's, whose curved windows on the 16th floor at the prow give him a stunning panoramic view of the city and beyond.
 ''I think they were surprised by the response of people wanting to stay in this building, even with its foibles,'' Mr. Shear said. ''You see these strange little offices. There's nothing cookie-cutter here. I mean, did you see the 21st floor?'' he asked, laughing. ''It's like a place you'd put your mad aunt.''
 ''It's a little quirky sometimes, and I think that's a good thing,'' he said. ''I think when authors or agents come in here, they feel that kind of quirky energy.''
 Alice Sparberg Alexiou, whose history of the building, ''The Flatiron: The New York Landmark and the Incomparable City That Arose With It,'' will be published by (who else?) St. Martin's in June, said those who worked within felt emotionally connected to it in a way people in other buildings did not. 
 Her grandfather bought a share in the building in 1946, and her family was a part owner until 1997. 
 ''The Flatiron has always obsessed people,'' she said. ''And I think it always will, now that it's landmarked. Maybe it has something to with the fact that it's a triangle. Triangles are magical. There's something almost religious about it.'' 
 She and those working in the building, which has received federal and city landmark status, are eager to see what the Sorgente Group will do when Macmillan's lease runs out in 2018.
 ''Can they do something fabulous with that inside space?'' Ms. Alexiou said. ''Can they take the gritty out of it? I hope they don't. I don't think New York has enough gritty anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The slim Flatiron Building, which was sold last year, allows offices like John J. Murphy's to be full of light. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Flatiron Building was one of the first skyscrapers in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); WOMEN (76%); BOOK PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (54%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



644 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Of Top Hats, Top Kills and Bottom Feeders

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 It's unnerving, disorienting. A particularly noxious blend of helplessness, fear and fury that washes over you when you realize the country has again been dragged into a costly and scary maelstrom revolving around acronyms you've never heard of.
 Our economy went in the ditch while traders got rich peddling C.D.O.'s and C.D.S.'s. Even many bankers -- much less average Americans who lost their shirts -- were gobsmacked by the acronyms, and scrambled to figure out how collateralized debt obligations and credit default swaps worked. 
 And now a gazillion gallons of oil have poisoned the Gulf of Mexico, thanks in part to unethical employees at a once-obscure agency known as M.M.S. -- the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service. M.M.S. is charged with collecting royalties from Big Oil even as it regulates it -- an absurd conflict right there. So M.M.S. has had the same sort of conflicts of interest as ratings agencies like Moody's and Standard & Poor's had with Wall Street.
 Consorting with the industry intensified once two oilmen took over the White House. Dick Cheney, Duke of Halliburton -- responsible for the cementing of the calamitous well, now under investigation -- had his aides conspire with BP America and other oil companies to draw up an energy policy.
 As when derivatives experts had to help unravel the derivatives debacle, now the White House is dependent on BP to find a solution to the horror it created. The financial crisis and the oil spill are both man-made disasters brought on by hubris and avarice. 
 With poignant scenes of oil-soaked birds and out-of-work fishermen on TV, the White House is still scrambling to get on top of this latest catastrophe. The laconic president is once more giving too much deference and trust to rapacious corporate scoundrels and failing to swiftly grasp and articulate the alarm of Americans.
 One West Wing official admits that, even with all the crises they were juggling, they should have acted more urgently to re-examine the dark legacy of Cheney in the Energy and Interior Departments.
 Monitoring the plume of doom -- a symbol of national impotence -- we're learning another whole new vocabulary from Top Hat to Top Kill. We are trapped in a science-fiction nightmare we can't wake up from, possibly because of a dead battery in the control pod connected to a dead man's switch for the blowout preventer, whatever that means.
 We're glued to a House energy subcommittee's ''spillcam'' Web site and Google Earth pictures of the spreading slick, nauseated by the news that once more, government officials charged with protecting us were instead enabling greedy corporations.
 As The Washington Post reported on Tuesday, there is growing suspicion that the money concerns of the companies involved with the well created ''an atmosphere of haste'' that may have spurred the spill. 
 In a report released on Tuesday, Mary Kendall, acting inspector general of the Department of the Interior, described an agency that followed Cheney's lead in letting the oil industry write the rules.
 Just like those S.E.C. employees who were watching porn and ignoring warning signs while Wall Street punks created financial Frankensteins, some M.M.S. employees were watching porn, using coke and crystal meth and accepting gifts like trips to the Peach Bowl game from oil and gas companies, the report said.
 Regarding outrageous behavior prior to 2007, one confidential source told investigators that some M.M.S. inspectors let oil and gas company staffers fill out inspection forms using pencils ''and MMS inspectors would write on top of the pencil in ink and turn in the completed form.''
 Larry Williamson, the M.M.S. Lake Charles, La., district manager, told investigators: ''Obviously, we're all oil industry. We're all from the same part of the country. Almost all of our inspectors have worked for oil companies out on these same platforms. They grew up in the same towns. Some of these people, they've been friends with all their life,'' hunting, fishing and skeet-shooting together.
 The tragedy is that M.M.S. eerily presaged the disaster in the draft of a May 2000 environmental analysis of deep-water drilling in the gulf. The agency noted that ''the oil industry's experience base in deepwater well control is limited'' and that given the prodigious production rates, ''a deepwater blowout of this magnitude in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could easily turn out to be a potential showstopper'' for the Outer Continental Shelf program.
 But M.M.S. got rid of those caveats in the final report, just as they deemed a remote-controlled shut-off switch an unnecessary expense for drilling companies several years ago.
 As we watch a self-inflicted contamination that has no end in sight, consider this chilling arithmetic: One oil industry reporter reckoned that the 5,000 barrels a day (a conservative estimate) spewing 5,000 feet down in the gulf counts for only two minutes of oil consumption in the state of Texas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); OIL SPILLS (75%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (75%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (75%); ROYALTIES (75%); ETHICS (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); CONSPIRACY (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (71%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: BP AMERICA INC (54%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



645 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Lincoln Center's Big Spectacle: 'Untitled'

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
THE new Lincoln Center restaurant has no name. 
 It is unfinished, for the most part unstaffed, and all too aware that it isn't even a restaurant yet. But that doesn't keep it from having feelings. It exudes a palpable impatience. Staring out of its construction-smeared windows at West 65th Street, it broods. Biding its time across from the Juilliard School, its annoyance at anonymity grows with the gawking of every new sidewalk superintendent. 
 Everyone who cares about this $20 million project knows that it is wrong to keep disappointing the restaurant when it is in this mood of sullen silence. And if it betrays no noticeable rage or depression or despair, it is most certainly in a mood. For the Lincoln Center restaurant has no name. 
 The September opening is just a few months away, by no means a comfy window. Like Sinatra with a cold sending vibrations through the entertainment industry of the 1960s and beyond -- and if the previous paragraphs read suspiciously like a third-generation knockoff of Gay Talese's ''Frank Sinatra Has a Cold,'' the celebrated Esquire profile from 1966, well, guilty as charged -- the restaurant's namelessness is stalling more than the printing of matchbooks. 
 Last week, after half a year of primping, growing and mowing, the 147-foot-by-70-foot lawn atop the restaurant's roof was opened to the public. In reporting this article -- the second in a series chronicling the Lincoln Center project as an emblem of the often-chaotic realities that attend the creation of restaurants in Manhattan -- there was some hope that the name could be unveiled at the same time. 
 ''If they aren't careful, the public will name it soon, if they don't,'' said Clark Wolf, a restaurant consultant based in New York. ''You can see people calling it something like 'Tavern Under the Green.' '' 
 There are graphic artists in the wings, waiting to learn the concept and the architecture and the name. There is restaurant signage to create. A marketing campaign awaits brainstorming. Software programming must be devised for a host of new electronic billboards at Lincoln Center. Menus are unordered. Ditto, cocktail napkins. And brochures. Stationery. Business cards. 
 Not to mention planning for Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week, which will be held at Lincoln Center for the first time in September. Events have been scheduled in a restaurant that, right now, can only be designated T.B.D. 
 In a holding pattern, too, are 350 pieces of what restaurateurs call holloware (tableside coffee servers, milk dispensers, teapots and ice buckets), some of which, like the bread stands, will be imprinted with the name. 
 ''The restaurant requires a name as iconic as its location,'' said the restaurateur Nick Valenti, chief executive of the Patina Restaurant Group, which will operate the restaurant and runs the luxe Grand Tier in the Metropolitan Opera House. He declined comment on how, or when, a name would be chosen.
 The restaurant was originally to be called Patina, referencing the space run by Mr. Valenti's partner, Joachim Splichal, in Los Angeles. 
 Mr. Valenti, Mr. Splichal and Reynold Levy, president of Lincoln Center, later agreed that a different name might be more appropriate because Jonathan Benno, the 40-year-old former chef de cuisine of Per Se, signed on with a vision for an Italian-themed restaurant. 
 Actually the name Benno itself was once considered, but put aside for the obvious reason that Mr. Benno might not forever be at the helm of Lincoln Center's culinary cynosure. 
 ''We all came up with hundreds of names,'' Mr. Benno said. ''So many. You would wake up at 4 a.m.? You'd come up with a name. It never stopped.'' 
 The principal actors in the naming drama are circumspect in discussing the realpolitik of the process, but several say that the original list of 300 has been winnowed to a few closely guarded finalists. Among the other rejected were Citta and Amoore (as in Henry Moore -- whose sculpture at the plaza reflecting pool is a scenic view from the restaurant). After a brief flirtation with Sud (rhyming with ''food''), that name, too, was remaindered. 
 Certainly the restaurant won't be called The Camel -- even though it must pass muster with a committee. Beyond the Patina team, there is a core of decision-makers in Lincoln Center, including Mr. Levy; Frank A. Bennack Jr., the institution's current chairman; and Katherine A. Farley, who will take over as chairwoman next month. As yet there has been no Kumbaya moment. 
 Which is not to say that progress is stalled on other fronts. Consider, for example, the cornucopia of tabletop items. Even for a smallish high-end restaurant (120 seats is not vast by Manhattan standards) the inventory is daunting. 
 Mr. Valenti, Mr. Benno and Paolo Novello, a longtime Per Se general manager who is Mr. Benno's partner in the venture, are ready to order some 4,000 pieces of china (in 45 shapes), 2,000 pieces of flatware (in 15 types) and 1,500 pieces of glassware (in 15 sizes).
 ''This minute, hundreds of people all over the world are thinking about our spoons and cutlery and olive oil and junction boxes and dishwashers,'' Mr. Benno said. The architectural elements of the kitchen are being built in Quebec, to be shipped in pieces. Tables and chairs are being crafted in Germany following tests during which Mr. Benno, Mr. Novello and Mr. Valenti did a lot of sitting. As for linens? Don't start.
 In many respects, the evolution of the Lincoln Center project ''is similar to that of many other high-end restaurants,'' said Malcolm Knapp, who heads a restaurant consulting company that bears his name. ''But Diller Scofidio & Renfro tend to push the edge on material and conceptual work,'' he said of the restaurant's architects. ''There is likely to be enormous attention given its design -- and the chef and general manager from Per Se -- so that makes it unusual.'' 
 At this stage of any grand restaurant's development, ''the stakes are high,'' Mr. Wolf said. For this one in particular, ''a lot of people are hoping that the opening will mark a resurgence of post-recession New York.'' 
 Although intricate, expensive planning has been yet another casualty of the current ''macaroni and cheese economy,'' he went on, ''this restaurant is in a temple of high art. It's one of the few places where the look, and the kind of flatware that is used -- and even the way the tableware is presented -- can produce a series of icons, as the Four Seasons originally did.'' 
 And so, these days an office at the Patina Restaurant Group in Midtown Manhattan is a Collyer brothers congeries of restaurant amenities. ''Here's the biscotti stand: this one is simple, functional,'' Mr. Novello said, holding up a small tray on a recent afternoon. He, Mr. Benno and Mr. Valenti were scouting piles of tableware and glassware like fiancees at Bed Bath & Beyond. 
 ''Is it stainless?'' Mr. Valenti asked, and got two assenting nods. He hefted a plate. ''What's your feeling on white versus off-white?'' he asked Mr. Benno.
 ''I prefer white,'' Mr. Benno said, handing another plate to Mr. Valenti. ''Here, this one is bone.'' 
 After giving the new menus and tableware a spin during food presentations in the coming weeks, the winning table items will be ordered in mid-June, Mr. Novello said, ''because it takes six weeks to get it all back.'' 
 The restaurant's construction is also charging forward. Now, composite synthetic panels extend outside on the 65th Street side, continuing the interior roof lineand making the ceiling resemble one solid plane to the outside wall. 
 More than 100 construction workers -- from 12 different trades -- are working in the space, according to Juan Veronelli, a project manager. 
 Can they finish it all in time? ''You have to have confidence in the team,'' Mr. Benno said. He surveyed the construction bedlam on a recent afternoon. ''It's always hard to imagine that it will all come together. But it always does.''
 All well and good. But the restaurant is still nameless. ''There is only one rule about the name: it shouldn't be an unfortunate choice that sticks out its chin,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''Remember, they named a restaurant Vertigo on a higher floor of the Transamerica Pyramid in San Francisco. Boy, did that go away fast.'' 
 Mr. Valenti, who has helped name dozens of restaurants in his career -- including the Sea Grill, Cafe Centro and Nick & Stef's Steakhouse -- said that, in the end, ''once you repeat any decent name enough, it starts to sound better and better.'' He gave an example. 
 ''When Jonathan heard that the name of the restaurant was going to be Per Se, he thought they were out of their minds. But now, six years later? What else would you call it?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GREEN ON THE TAVERN: Edgar Pengel serves lemonade on the lawn atop the coming restaurant at Lincoln Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
SHOPPING: The chef Jonathan Benno chooses tableware in the Patina Restaurant Group's offices, above and right, for his Lincoln Center restaurant. The map of Italy is inspiration
 the calendar counts down to the September opening. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); DRINKING PLACES (61%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (60%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



646 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DINER'S JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: From the Blogs

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
John Ameroso has been showing New Yorkers how to grow what they eat since 1976 as an extension agent for the city. He is answering questions on growing food.
 Q. Beginners' question: Is there any food can you grow when you have more shade than sun to work with (like only morning sun)?
 A. As long as you can get at least three hours of direct sun, you can do anything. But just remember that tomatoes and such will not be as abundant as in full sun, and will take longer to mature. Leafy greens should be OK, as they prefer cool season conditions, and by growing them in the semi-summer shade it would mimic those conditions. 
 Q. I have a plot in a 10-year-old community garden near downtown (''Center City'') in Philadelphia. The area originally was developed in the 1850s, and two houses once stood in the space. I don't know how long the lots were vacant before the garden was developed. How concerned should I be about metals or other unsavory substances leeching from the soil into the vegetables I grow? 
 A. If you keep the pH of the soil to near neutral (6.8-7.0), the heavy metals (lead, cadmium and nickle) will be ''tied'' up and not move in the soil. Also, buffer soil with organic matter and that will lower the ppm of the heavy metals. If you are still concerned, check out programs at the University of Massachusetts and Brooklyn College for inexpensive heavy metal testing.
 Q. I am just starting out with gardening in containers as I live in an apartment with a spacious balcony. I hung my two Topsy Turvy containers last week but would like to plant more edible gardens in 20-inch pots. How many seedlings/seeds can I fit in a 20-inch pot? And what would you recommend to grow right now (edible plants, please)?
 A. Depends on what you are growing. Always base spacing just as you would do in growing in a garden. For Larger plants (tomato, eggplant, pepper) use one plant per container. Salad greens can be broadcast seeded in pot (broadcast not too thickly) and harvested as a mesclun mix with scissors. Don't even bother with root crops, as the pots will heat up too much for healthy root growth.
 Q. Beginner's question again - I travel quite a bit, and sometimes my plants have to go two to three days without watering. Are there any herbs/spices that you would recommend growing which could cope with that? Or perhaps you could give me some tips for indoor irrigation? 
 A. Culinary herbs that need the least attention are perennial ones like oregano, rosemary and thyme as compared to basil and cilantro. You mentioned indoor irrigation, so I imagine if these are all indoor and not in direct sun, two to three days away without watering is fine. Remember, these plants were meant go grow outside for best results. House plants mostly originated under the rain forest canopy, that's why they thrive indoors.
 Q. Why did Cornell Extension decide not to keep your position after your retirement? Purely a financial decision or is there a greater movement away from Extension agents in urban areas? 
 A. There is just a general decline in extension agents throughout the country. When I started in the 70's, we had over 150 members of the New York State Association of Extension Agents. Now there are less than 65 (members, but not all agents are members). There would have to be federal funding directed towards the universities to keep urban agricultural extension running. Counties can put in money, such as Rochester, Syracuse that have urban extension, but first they have to have money, which is tight and getting tighter in all counties.
 Q. Please write an urban farm advice book! If that is not in the plan, while we are waiting, can you recommend any books that you think give good advice to the urban farmer?
 A. I would like to write a book, but I'd rather be outside. Best place for advice is a university horticulture Web site.
 Q. Have you tried the stacked tire tower method for potatoes, and if so, how well does this work? Do you have any other techniques like this that you recommend?
 A. A stacked tire tower works well, but can overheat, though it is still good for small areas and also a way to get rid of tires instead of paying for their removal. Another method I like is to throw old potatoes on a compost pile and then cover with more compost and then forget about it until late August to September. The pile will yield potatoes of all sizes. Once, I had a 3 by 3 foot pile that was also about three feet tall yielded close to a bushel of potatoes.
 Q. It's wonderful to see you featured here in The Times, I am a recent transplant to the Brooklyn area and am a big fan of Just Food as well as some of the local farms in the area. I am a medic and know that food is the best medicine and am promoting my ''Garden in a Bag'' which consists of a hemp bag with different combinations of seeds that grow without sun or soil in 4-6 days and is super nutritious. It is a perfect way for urban gardeners to grow an almost instant garden. You can even take it with you. Thanks for all you have done for the food movement.
 A. Growing in ''hemp'' ... I imagine that some people would like that taste.
 Q. I'm experimenting with a garden behind a Brooklyn brownstone and coming up with lots of problems. Can you suggest some great plants? Especially things that can handle part-to-mostly shade? Also things my dog won't eat (she's taken the tops off of all of my peas). I also get full sun in front, so what's a good full-sun container plant?
 A. Again, usually the leafy greens can handle the shade problem through most of the summer. Peas are sometimes not worth the growing without room and sun. All fruiting plants (tomato, peppers, squash, eggplant) would appreciate the'' full sun'' container.
 Q. Urban farming and agriculture in general have acquired a new sheen of ''cool'' over the past few years. Many young adults are looking at small scale farming as a viable and desirable career path. Do you think this is really a revolution in the way we think about food, farms, and cities or do you expect the enthusiasm will die down once aspiring young farmers are faced with the hardships of living off the land? How do you think (or hope) urban farming will change New York City's landscape and economy over the next decade? How about the next century?
 A. Urban farming can be just one part of someone's income, unless you are doing more enclosed growing such as ''wheat grass'' and mushrooms. The problem with getting started in small scale agriculture, whether young or old, is that there is not enough ''support'' for new farmers, in the form of loans, health insurance and sound technical advice (like from extension agents). There is plenty of land available for farming, and owners willing to keep it in farming, so that is not the problem. It is the support question.
 Q. How concerned should someone be about ingesting toxins along with their veggies that are grown in wood frames lined with black plastic garbage bags? Veggies grown in recycled plastic shopping bags? Veggies grown in large pots that have some Styrofoam peanuts mixed in with the soil (towards the bottom of the pot)? Tomatoes grown in those upside down growing bags? I have had cancer for many years and want to minimize my exposure to unwanted toxic chemicals.
 A. There is not a lot of information about toxins released from plastics (even when it comes to plastic water bottles) which makes me think that it may not be a problem. It takes a lot to ''break down'' the organic molecules contained in plastics.
 Q. Congratulations, John! I'm so excited that you've got a column. Best to Linda and the girls.
 A. Hi Mary, have not seen you in ages.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PLANT MAN: John Ameroso has advice for urban gardeners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); GARDENING (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



647 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: A Former Exile Is the Real Power in a West African Nation

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Allen Yero Embalo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BISSAU, Guinea-Bissau -- For months, as the United States Treasury Department prepared to declare him a drug kingpin and a major figure in the international narcotics trade, Rear Adm. Jose Americo Bubo Na Tchuto was hiding out in the unlikeliest of places -- living in the United Nations building here, sleeping on a mattress on the floor of a United Nations office and sometimes eating in the canteen. 
 All the while, a coup was hatching, possibly by his hand. Last month, soldiers loyal to Mr. Na Tchuto stormed the United Nations building as he was eating breakfast and also seized his political enemies -- including the nation's prime minister and its army chief -- to make it safe for him to leave. 
 Now Mr. Na Tchuto rides around this crumbling West African capital in an outsize pickup truck flanked by a personal guard of soldiers, offering his booming greeting to well-wishers. The president is still nominally in charge, but officials in the region worry that the nation has effectively fallen into the hands of a drug baron. 
 ''Bubo Na Tchuto is actually the force behind the forces,'' said Dr. Abdel Fatau Musah, the political director for the Economic Community of West African States, a regional bloc of nations. ''The fact that he is controlling things is very unpleasant for the region.'' 
 In the eyes of the American government, Mr. Na Tchuto is a trafficking mastermind in a country that has become a global narcotics hub: the point man, for instance, when hundreds of pounds of cocaine were unloaded from a plane at the minuscule local airport two years ago. 
 On April 8, just a week after the coup, the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control listed him and the air force chief of staff as drug lords and froze whatever assets they might have in the United States. 
 ''We've been looking at these individuals for months,'' said Adam J. Szubin, the agency's director.
 And yet, as Mr. Na Tchuto took refuge at the United Nations building, the secretary general's representative in Bissau, Joseph Mutaboba, was reassuring the Security Council in New York that ''conditions were now in place for political stability'' in the country and that Guinea-Bissau was on a ''journey towards peace, democracy and prosperity,'' according to a Security Council announcement from March 5. 
 In an interview, Mr. Mutaboba said his fugitive guest, who was wanted by the government here for treason, had been given sanctuary only reluctantly. The United Nations said at the time that Mr. Na Tchuto stepped onto the compound uninvited and declared that his life was in danger, making it ''mindful of international human rights obligations governing such situations.'' 
 Mr. Mutaboba said there was ''no sign'' that Mr. Na Tchuto was plotting a coup inside the building and that his cellphones had been confiscated to prevent trouble. Still, he acknowledged that it was possible that Mr. Na Tchuto had made contact with the outside.
 ''You cannot read deeply into what the military are up to, especially when you have shifting, opportunistic alliances,'' Mr. Mutaboba said.
 Now a free man, Mr. Na Tchuto also denied spending his time under the auspices of the United Nations plotting the April 1 coup. But in an interview at his lawyer's office here, he noted: ''I am a former guerrilheiro. I have the strength to transform difficult situations into something favorable.'' 
 Still, the sudden onslaught of soldiers had taken him by surprise, he said, as have the American government's allegations of drug trafficking.
 ''There's no material proof that I was involved in drugs,'' he said angrily. ''Proof, proof, proof, proof. People say I am a criminal! I am a patriot!'' he said, boasting about his service during the country's war of liberation against the Portuguese in the 1960s and 1970s, which he said he joined at the age of 14. 
 For the United Nations, his presence in the multistory headquarters on a rutted road here has been a source of discomfort, both before and after the coup. 
 ''The whole international community here was astonished at the U.N. behavior,'' a Western diplomat in Bissau said. ''They didn't understand why they were harboring such a character. He was not just sitting there watching television.'' 
 Paulo Gorjao, director of the Portuguese Institute of International Relations and Security in Lisbon, goes even further: ''He was under the protection of the U.N., planning a coup against the government. It was perfect.''
 Hours after the coup, Mr. Na Tchuto appeared with his ally, Gen. Antonio Indjai, the new army chief, at a news conference introducing the country's new bosses. Mr. Na Tchuto, who had been navy chief of staff under a previous government, did not get his old job back, but he still plays a very influential, if officially somewhat nebulous, role. 
 It was a stunning reversal for a man who had spent over a year in exile in Gambia, accused by those then leading Guinea-Bissau of plotting a coup against them. Mr. Na Tchuto sneaked back into the country on a fishing boat shortly after Christmas last year. 
 By turns genial and explosive, Mr. Na Tchuto appeared hurt by the American accusations, insisting that he admired America deeply, had dreamed about President Obama and had a large American flag in his living room. 
 ''I ask the Americans to help establish justice and peace in this country,'' he said, noting the history of instability here. There have been at least seven successful or attempted coups since independence in 1974, and in the last 12 years 4 presidents, 4 acting presidents and 11 prime ministers.
 Mr. Na Tchuto deflected a question about whether he was now the real boss in Guinea-Bissau, saying through his lawyer that he ''didn't want to offend'' the current president and army chief of staff by responding. 
 Others here are more blunt. ''Bubo Na Tchuto has power, and he has money -- and we know he has money from drugs -- and he has a lot of people behind him,'' said Idrissa Djalo, a leading businessman and former presidential candidate. ''And so the situation is uncontrollable.''
 At his hearing on the lingering treason charges last week, Mr. Na Tchuto looked relaxed, showing up with his military guard and joking on the front porch of the military tribunal building with the officers who were going to judge him. It was all a mere ''formality,'' he said later. 
 A small crowd gathered across the street to stare at Mr. Na Tchuto in his navy blue admiral's uniform. Everybody knew who he was. ''He is a great chief,'' murmured a man looking on, Do Geloso, a tailor. ''He's got the power.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The port of Bissau, capital of Guinea-Bissau. The United States views the West African nation, once ruled by Portugal, as a hub of the global drug trade.
 Jose Americo Bubo Na Tchuto, accused by the United States of being a figure in the drug trade, can be seen in the streets of Bissau riding in a pickup. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Mr. Na Tchuto, a former navy chief of staff, once was in exile in Gambia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); COUPS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMIES (76%); TREASON (76%); AIR FORCES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COCAINE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); AIRPORTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (84%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); GUINEA-BISSAU (94%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



648 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Machines That Accept Credit Cards, and Big Bills

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Vending machines in neon-splashed Tokyo have electronic eyes that evaluate customers' skin and wrinkles to determine whether they are old enough to buy tobacco. In bathrooms at upscale Canadian bars, vending machines with flat irons enable women to defrizz their locks. In Abu Dhabi, the lobby of a luxury hotel has a vending machine that dispenses gold bars and coins at more than $1,000 an ounce. 
 A new breed of vending machine is proliferating around the world -- and while the United States is coming late to the party, Dr Pepper and Baby Ruth are already feeling sidelined.
 Flashy and futuristic, souped-up machines are popping up everywhere, be it the Mondrian hotel in Miami or at Macy's in Minneapolis. They have touch screens instead of buttons, facades that glow and pulse, and technology intended to blunt vending machine rage -- sensors that ensure that a customer's credit card is not charged unless the chosen item has dropped. These machines are not for quarters: purchases are measured in dollar amounts that typically start at two figures and go up. 
 Changing consumer preferences about shopping and the high cost of operating brick-and-mortar stores are inspiring premium brands to rethink how they sell their wares. As Gower Smith, whose company, ZoomSystems, has created about 1,000 automated kiosks called ZoomShops, put it, ''A ZoomShop costs less than an employee.''
 And with examples overseas showing there is money to be made, the so-called automated retail store (the term vending machine is so Industrial Revolution) is venturing into fashion, beauty products, electronics and more.
 A couple of months ago, the Body Shop cosmetics franchise began offering skin care products with ingredients like hemp and vitamin E in deluxe machines at airports; soon will come shopping centers. 
 In the fall and winter, a company called U*tique will begin selling high-end beauty products in machines that light up when customers approach -- a better reception than shoppers see from most retail employees. 
 In the last few years, Best Buy, Sephora, Apple and Proactiv have put their products in vending machines. Quiksilver offers board shorts and bikinis in machines at Standard hotels. 
 Such machines also offer nascent brands that have no store outlet another way to bring their products to market. Customers can make returns by calling a phone number on the receipt. 
 In an age of iPads, high-speed Internet service, A.T.M.'s and self-service check-in at airports, consumers expect instant gratification. Not only are they accustomed to researching and buying products on their own by touching screens and pressing buttons; they often prefer it. 
 A study published in 2008 by NCR Corporation found that 86 percent of North American consumers were more likely to do business with companies offering some sort of self-service. Many respondents also said they had a more positive perception of a brand if it offered self-service technology. This appears to be especially true of young shoppers. 
 ''You will hear in studies, 'My mom shops at the beauty counter, and I want to shop for products on my own,' '' said Mara Segal, chief executive of U*tique, which plans to install up to 20 automated machines this year before going full throttle in 2011. ''They are actively avoiding the counter.'' 
 The new machines are meant to provide a feeling of discovery and charm often lacking in traditional retailing. Indeed, the machines are not ''stocked'' -- they are, as Ms. Segal put it, ''curated.'' Merchandise in U*tique machines is arranged and lighted like works of modern art in a series of dainty portals, evoking a neon honeycomb. 
 ''We put a lot of attention and focus on all the things that are sexy about retail,'' she said. 
 The machines -- which bridge the gap between old-fashioned stores and online shopping -- are not only being installed in airports and malls. They are materializing in supermarkets, military bases, college campuses, even chain stores. 
 The economics make it easy to see why. Mall stores produce about $330 a square foot a year, while a 28-square-foot ZoomShop can generate $3,000 to $10,000 a square foot a year, Mr. Smith said. 
 Or consider airports, where stores make about $1,000 a square foot and ZoomShops generate $10,000 to $40,000 a square foot, he said. ZoomSystems, based in San Francisco, charges the brands in its machines a fee that includes the cost of rent at an airport or mall. Landlords typically take a percentage of the sales too. 
 As Mr. Smith noted, the attraction goes beyond payroll and rental expenses. If an airline closes a terminal, or if customer traffic is slow in a particular mall corridor, the machine can be unplugged and moved. 
 Machines have fewer inventory problems and less theft than a traditional store. Additionally, the main way a brick-and-mortar store discovers what its customers want is when they check out. Automated machines, in contrast, learn about consumers' shopping habits from the moment they begin using the machine because every click is tracked. 
 ''We're starting to see, more and more, weirder items and weirder machines,'' said Christopher D. Salyers, the author of a new book, ''Vending Machines: Coined Consumerism'' (Mark Batty Publisher), that chronicles the rise of the machines, from the boom in the 1800s Tutti-Frutti gum era to today. 
 At the same time, the classic vending machine business -- sales of soda and snacks -- is troubled. Research by IBISWorld said the industry is in decline because of trends toward more healthful eating, increased cigarette regulation, declining industrial work forces and more competition from fast-food restaurants and convenience stores open late or 24 hours. 
 Revenues for vending operators are expected to be $11.3 billion this year, according to IBISWorld, up from $11.1 billion in 2009. Yet the industry is expected to grow only 1 percent a year through 2015, down from a 2 percent growth rate over the five years ending 2010.
 The newfangled machines, which cost $3,000 to tens of thousands of dollars, are now a small part of the industry, generating less than a $1 billion in revenue, said Chris Rezendes of VDC Research.
 And expanding the vending frontier has not been without setbacks. One of the first automated convenience stores in the United States began operating in 2002 and was controversial. 
 Known as Shop 2000, it offered sundries -- eggs, diapers, condoms -- in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Washington. But as it turned out, one man's convenience was another's dehumanizing eyesore and the machine was shut down. 
 Other parts of the world are less hesitant. In Europe and Asia consumers buy underwear, umbrellas, toys, pizza and organic strawberries from machines. 
 Japan has one vending machine for about every 23 people, Mr. Salyers said. The country's population density, low crime rate and fascination with technology have made it a vending paradise. 
 ''They just line the streets,'' Mr. Salyers said. ''You can't find a trash can there. But you can find a vending machine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Emirates Palace A.T.M. in Abu Dhabi dispenses gold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOSAB OMAR/REUTERS) (A1)
Best Buy uses an automated store made by ZoomSystems to sell consumer electronics at Newark Liberty International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MaryBeth Polony of Redding, Conn., using a machine that sells Proactiv skin products at Danbury Fair Mall in Danbury, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENDING MACHINES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (87%); COSMETICS (87%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (71%); LOBBYING (58%)

COMPANY: NCR CORP (82%)

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%) CANADA (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



649 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Anxiety Eases, But Some Fear Not for Long

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Americans' confidence in the economy rose in May for the third consecutive month, fed by growing optimism about job prospects.
 Still, economists worry that improvements in the mood of shoppers may be reversed amid huge declines on Wall Street and fears that a debt crisis in Europe could thwart global growth. 
 The Conference Board, based in New York, said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence Index rose to 63.3 points, from a revised 57.7 points in April. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected 59 points.
 The increase was bolstered by consumers' outlook over the next six months, one component of the index, which soared to 85.3 from 77.4, the highest since it reached 89.2 in August 2007, before the recession.
 The other component of the index, which measures how shoppers feel now about the economy, rose to 30.2 from 28.2.
 The index -- which measures how consumers feel about business conditions, the job market and the next six months -- has been recovering fitfully since hitting a record low of 25.3 in February 2009.
 A reading above 90 indicates the economy is on solid footing; above 100 signals strong growth. Economists watch the number closely because consumer spending, including spending on health care and other major items, accounts for about 70 percent of the nation's economic activity.
 Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said on Tuesday that though confidence remained weak, it appeared ''to be gaining some traction.''
 Economists contend confidence will remain weak for at least another year because of stubbornly high unemployment. Employers are expected to add 425,000 jobs in May, up from 290,000 jobs in April, but economists project the unemployment rate will be 9.8 percent, down only slightly from 9.9 percent. The Labor Department is to release the monthly job figures June 4.
 Adding to the dark mood was a downbeat report from an important housing index. The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city home price index, released Tuesday, fell 0.5 percent in March from February, a sign that the housing market remained weak even as mortgage rates were near historic lows. The expiration last month of the government's home-buyer tax credit could hurt sales in the coming months.
 The National Association of Realtors said Monday that sales of previously owned homes were the highest in five months and exceeded expectations. Buyers were rushing to meet a deadline for a tax credit.
 Stores had a solid spring selling season, but May is turning out to be disappointing.
 The Conference Board poll -- based on a random survey of consumers sent to 5,000 households May 1-18 -- includes volatile days in the stock market, but excludes the 376-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average last Thursday, the worst one-day drop in more than a year.
 ''We were starting to see some good signs that we were building momentum'' in spending, the chief economist at Gallup, Dennis Jacobe, said. ''This has put a wrench into the works. The momentum has come to a halt.''
 Based on Gallup's poll of 1,000 shoppers a day, consumers' outlook has deteriorated from April, Mr. Jacobe said. The percentage of consumers who predict the economy will worsen is 60 percent, up from 54 percent in April. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); HOME PRICES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



650 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Heads a Cast of Villains In Pakistan's Conspiracy Talk

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Salman Masood contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Americans may think that the failed Times Square bomb was planted by a man named Faisal Shahzad. But the view in the Supreme Court Bar Association here in Pakistan's capital is that the culprit was an American ''think tank.'' 
 No one seems to know its name, but everyone has an opinion about it. It is powerful and shadowy, and seems to control just about everything in the American government, including President Obama. 
 ''They have planted this character Faisal Shahzad to implement their script,'' said Hashmat Ali Habib, a lawyer and a member of the bar association. 
 Who are they? 
 ''You must know, you are from America,'' he said smiling. ''My advice for the American nation is, get free of these think tanks.''
 Conspiracy theory is a national sport in Pakistan, where the main players -- the United States, India and Israel -- change positions depending on the ebb and flow of history. Since 2001, the United States has taken center stage, looming so large in Pakistan's collective imagination that it sometimes seems to be responsible for everything that goes wrong here.
 ''When the water stops running from the tap, people blame America,'' said Shaista Sirajuddin, an English professor in Lahore. 
 The problem is more than a peculiar domestic phenomenon for Pakistan. It has grown into a narrative of national victimhood that is a nearly impenetrable barrier to any candid discussion of the problems here. In turn, it is one of the principal obstacles for the United States in its effort to build a stronger alliance with a country to which it gives more than a billion dollars a year in aid. 
 It does not help that no part of the Pakistani state -- either the weak civilian government or the powerful military -- is willing to risk publicly owning that relationship. 
 One result is that nearly all of American policy toward Pakistan is conducted in secret, a fact that serves only to further feed conspiracies. American military leaders slip quietly in and out of the capital; the Central Intelligence Agency uses networks of private spies; and the main tool of American policy here, the drone program, is not even publicly acknowledged to exist. 
 ''The linchpin of U.S. relations is security, and it's not talked about in public,'' said Adnan Rehmat, a media analyst in Islamabad. 
 The empty public space fills instead with hard-line pundits and loud Islamic political parties, all projected into Pakistani living rooms by the rambunctious new electronic media, dozens of satellite television networks that weave a black-and-white, prime-time narrative in which the United States is the central villain. 
 ''People want simple explanations, like evil America, Zionist-Hindu alliance,'' said a Pakistani diplomat, who asked not to be named because of the delicate nature of the topic. ''It's gone really deep into the national psyche now.'' 
 One of those pundits is Zaid Hamid, a fast-talking, right-wing television personality who rose to fame on one of Pakistan's 90 new private television channels. 
 He uses Google searches to support his theory that India, Israel and the United States -- through their intelligence agencies and the company formerly known as Blackwater -- are conspiring to destroy Pakistan. 
 For Mr. Hamid, the case of Mr. Shahzad is one piece of a larger puzzle being assembled to pressure Pakistan. Why, otherwise, the strange inconsistencies, like the bomb's not exploding? ''If you connect the dots, you have a pretty exciting story,'' he said. 
 But the media are only part of the problem. Only a third of Pakistan's population has access to satellite channels, Mr. Rehmat said, and equally powerful are Islamic groups active at the grass roots of Pakistani society. 
 Though Pakistan was created as a haven for Muslims, it was secular at first, and did not harden into an Islamic state on paper until 1949. Intellectuals point to the moment as a kind of original sin, when Islam became embedded in the country's democratic blueprint, handing immense power to Islamic hard-liners, who could claim -- despite their small numbers -- to be the true guardians of the state. 
 Together with military and political leaders, these groups wield Islamic slogans for personal gain, further shutting down discussion. 
 ''We're in this mess because political forces evoke Islam to further their own interests,'' said Aasim Sajjad, an assistant professor of political economy at Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad.
 Lawyers in Pakistan have a strong streak of political Islam. Mr. Habib, who has had militants as clients, argues that Al Qaeda is an American invention. Their pronouncements are infused with anti-Semitism, standard for Islamic groups in the region.
 ''The lobbies are the Jews, maybe some Indians, working in the inner core of the American administration,'' said Muhammad Ikram Chaudhry, vice president of the bar association. 
 Liberals on Pakistan's beleaguered left see the xenophobic patriotism and conspiracy theories as a defense mechanism that deflects all responsibility for society's problems and protects against a reality that is too painful to face. 
 ''It's deny, deny, deny,'' said Nadeem F. Paracha, a columnist for Dawn, an English-language daily. ''It's become second nature, like an instinct.''
 Mr. Paracha argues that the denial is dangerous because it hobbles any form of public conversation -- for example, about Mr. Shahzad's upper-class background -- leaving society unequipped to find remedies for its problems. ''We've started to believe our own lies,'' he said. 
 For those on the left, that view obscures an increasingly disappointing history. For 62 years, Pakistan has lurched from one self-serving government to the next, with little thought given to education or the economy, said Pervez Hoodbhoy, a physics professor at Quaid-i-Azam University. Now Pakistan is dependent on the West to pay its bills, a vulnerable position that breeds resentment. 
 ''We acknowledge to ourselves privately that Pakistan is a client state of the U.S.,'' Mr. Hoodbhoy said. ''But on the other hand, the U.S. is acting against Muslim interests globally. A sort of self-loathing came about.''
 There are very real reasons for Pakistanis to be skeptical of the United States. It encouraged -- and financed -- jihadis waging a religious war against the Soviets in the 1980s, while supporting the military autocrat Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, who seeded Pakistan's education system with Islamists. 
 But Mr. Hamid is more interested in the larger plot, like the secret ownership of the Federal Reserve, which he found on the Internet. After three years of fame, his star seems to be falling. This month his show was canceled, and he has had to rely on Facebook and audio CDs to make his points. But it is not the end of the conspiracy.
 ''Someone else will be front row very soon,'' said Manan Ahmed, a professor of Pakistani history. ''It is the mood of the country at the moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of the Islamic political party Jamaat-e-Islami at a rally in Karachi, Pakistan, in February. Pakistani suspicion of the United States is fueled by political parties and media pundits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REHAN KHAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Until recently, Zaid Hamid was an outspoken commentator on Pakistani television. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON TANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLITICS (70%); ESPIONAGE (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); RELIGION (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



651 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Closing 73-Year-Old Gap in a Bike Highway on the Hudson

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Bike path, RvrVu.
 When Robert Moses created Riverside Park as we know it today, City Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe said, he left a mysterious break in the waterfront promenade from 83rd Street, just north of the boat basin, to 91st Street.
 So since 1937, bikers, walkers, skaters and the rest have had to stomp up the hill at one end of that stretch to a higher landlocked level of Riverside Park, then back down the hill at the other end to get back to the river. 
 Now, after two and a half years and $15.7 million worth of construction, the promenade has been restored to the straight and narrow, giving the West Side of Manhattan a continuous bike path from the Battery to Riverbank State Park at 137th Street. With some inland detours, the path continues to the north end of Fort Tryon Park. 
 For bicycle commuters, the extended path is something like a bicycle superhighway, a straight, efficient ribbon along the waterfront with just a few interruptions (sanitation truck crossings, cruise-line passengers dragging suitcases, Intrepid school tours ). Between 59th and 133rd Streets, there are no car crossings at all.
 The extension, called Riverwalk, formally opened Thursday. It was instantly jammed with strollers and bike riders, intent on getting from one point to another by the most direct route.
 Mr. Benepe remembered that a continuous bike path down the West Side, which has proceeded in fits and starts for years, had long seemed a pipe dream. ''I recall Ruth Messinger, when she was Manhattan borough president, working on a bicycle master plan,'' he said. ''It seemed to be audaciously visionary, 25 years ago. There were all kinds of advocates and bike and transportation activists who kept pushing this plan.'' 
 Mr. Benepe said he was not sure why Moses, the legendary parks commissioner and highway builder, interrupted the promenade for that little strip from 83rd to 91st Streets, where instead, the Henry Hudson Parkway curves out along the Hudson River and cyclists cede the river view to the speeding (or crawling) cars.
 ''That half-mile stretch has been incomplete since 1937,'' Mr. Benepe said. ''I'm thinking it may have something to do with the geology of the site. It was enormously difficult to put up the walkway. We had to use pilings, which were driven into bedrock. In the 1930s, it might have been very, very difficult and expensive to continue to build a waterfront esplanade. Or perhaps he made a deliberate decision for the aesthetics of the car experience. There is sort of a sweeping view that you get as the road bows out, especially going southbound.''
 To build the bike path extension, which is suspended over the water like a concrete bridge or boardwalk, workers had to sink 102 pilings into bedrock, 78 of them in the water, Mr. Benepe said. ''It was incredible, the marine engineering needed,'' he said. ''That's why this was an expensive and time-consuming project.''
 Of the $15.7 million cost, $15 million was allocated by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg from city funds, $400,000 was allocated by City Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer, who represents the Upper West Side, and $300,000 came from a federal transportation grant administered by the state.
 ''We were lucky to have a healthy economy, at least the first two terms, so a lot of money was put in to build this kind of infrastructure,'' Mr. Benepe said.
 The old detour took people past the 91st Street gardens, offering a colorful view of flowers as the seasons changed. The new path has a lovely view of a long wake of sailboats at anchor dappling the water like pebbles skimming across the surface. The extension cuts perhaps five minutes off a bike ride, not bad for a commuter in a hurry. For those who prefer a workout to highway speed, it's still possible to stomp up the hill to the gardens.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The city has opened an extension, from 83rd Street to 91st Street, of the bike path in Riverside Park. After the $15.7 million project, the full path now runs from the Battery to 137th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); CRUISES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CYCLING (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



652 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Mandating Banks' Reserves, Regulators Seek to Balance Growth and Safety

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Capital is the body fat of banking: too much is debilitating, too little is fatal. During the financial crisis, as large banks burned through their capital reserves, governments were forced to add padding at public expense.
 Now one of the most consequential decisions about new restraints on the banking industry -- how much more capital banks should hold in their rainy day reserves -- is being decided not on Capitol Hill but far from Washington, by a committee based in Basel, Switzerland. 
 The Obama administration is pursuing an international agreement to make banks hold significantly larger reserves, which it regards as essential to increase the stability of the global financial system. It wants to complete the negotiations, which are being coordinated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, by the end of the year.
 The world's largest banks have responded with consternation, arguing that the proposed standards would tie up too much money that otherwise could be used for lending, a loss that would curtail economic growth.
 The debate between regulators and banks is about the proper balance between growth and safety, but the implications are much broader. In fixing reserve requirements, governments are deciding how much horsepower belongs under the hood of the global economy.
 ''We need them to get the balance right,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, a Brookings Institution expert who has studied the Basel proposals. ''More safety will make loans more expensive. We don't want to buy so much safety that the economy suffers.''
 There is tremendous political pressure to decide quickly. With the Senate's passage of financial overhaul legislation, administration officials said that increasing capital and liquidity reserve requirements was the critical remaining piece in their efforts to overhaul financial regulation.
 The Group of 20 nations affirmed the year-end deadline at its April meetings in Washington, notwithstanding divisions between the United States and some European nations on a range of banking issues.
 ''Reform is multifaceted, but at its core must be stronger capital standards,'' the group wrote in its communique. ''We recommitted to developing by end-2010 internationally agreed rules to improve both the quality and quantity of bank capital and to discourage excessive leverage.''
 The rules governing capital are dry and technical, a subject that even bankers leave to specialists, but they have become the single most important tool that governments use to restrain and preserve financial institutions.
 Banks are required to set aside capital in proportion to loans and investments. The rules shape behavior because banks must hold more capital against assets or loans that regulators consider more likely to lose value. 
 Capital is so important that the United States has pushed for international agreements on reserve requirements so as not to place American banks at a disadvantage. As a result, the financial bills passed by the House and Senate leave the issue largely untouched. 
 The first international agreement, known as Basel I, was reached in 1988. Work began almost immediately on a revision, but the standards known as Basel II were not completed until 2004. Now officials are racing to overhaul that framework in little more than a year.
 ''We're going to be pushing through this year to make sure that happens. That's an absolutely critical part of reform,'' said Michael S. Barr, assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions. 
 The industry mostly is reconciled to an increase -- many bankers regard it as necessary -- but in comment letters to the Basel committee made public in mid-April, large banks from across the world linked arms to argue that the initial proposals went much too far.
 For instance, analysts for JPMorgan Chase estimated that banks would need to raise prices by 33 percent to maintain profits. They also predicted that the Basel proposals would reduce the gross domestic product of the United States by ''a multiple'' of $30 billion.
 Banks also warned that governments were piling on proposals to tax and constrain the beleaguered industry.
 ''The cumulative financial impact represents a level of conservatism so extreme that it will harm the banking sector, banking customers and national economies,'' Wells Fargo's chief financial officer, Howard I. Atkins, wrote in a letter to the committee.
 Most large banks held more capital than regulators required in the fall of 2008. But they did not hold enough to survive the financial crisis. As borrowers defaulted and the value of investments fell sharply, many banks failed or were fortified with public money. The United States distributed more than $165 billion to nine of the largest American banks.
 The Basel committee is still discussing how much to increase the minimum capital requirement. The amount will depend in part on the results of a study estimating the impact of the proposals on banks, scheduled for discussion at the next meeting of the G-20 in June.
 Already on the table, however, are an overhaul of the risk-weightings, and a tighter definition of capital, closing loopholes that allowed banks to count borrowed money and projected profits as part of their reserves.
 Separately, the proposals would create a new reserve requirement, mandating that banks keep enough cash on hand -- or assets sold easily for cash -- to pay their bills for 30 days. Some banks ran out of cash during the crisis as depositors withdrew, investors fled and the borrowing markets shut down. The new rule, called a liquidity requirement, is intended to ensure that banks can survive such a financing drought. 
 A central point of international disagreement is whether banks should be allowed to hold smaller reserves because it is understood that central banks will provide loans during times of crisis.
 Financial analysts say that some nations, including France, are reluctant to make banks duplicate the safety net that the government provides already.
 ''Trying to get global buy-in is going to be hard to achieve,'' said Frederick Cannon, a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods.
 Banks argue more broadly that the initial Basel proposals are based on the extremes of recent experience, and that the cost of preparing for such extremes is too high in terms of lost lending and growth.
 The liquidity standard, for example, directs banks to prepare for the loss of 15 percent of deposits. A study of 121 recent bank failures by the American Bankers Association found the average institution lost 2.1 percent of its deposits. Only one bank lost more than 15 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Howard Atkins of Wells Fargo, left, criticized the proposals. Michael Barr of the Treasury said they were crucial to reform. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: HOWARD I ATKINS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



653 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Europe Pain May Impede U.S. Upturn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
Only months after most economists forecast that the recession could be viewed safely through the rearview mirror, the European fiscal crisis poses an unsettling new challenge for the United States economy.
 Few economists predict the United States will pitch into another recession soon. But a still weakened American economy could be slowed by its wounded European allies and trading partners. Even the optimists are wondering aloud if the United States will encounter a slower and bumpier recovery than expected.
 ''Look, a double-dip recession is a genuine risk -- I'd place it at 20 percent as opposed to 5 percent a few weeks ago,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist for ITG, who has been notably bullish on the United States economy. ''We have some chronic problems in Europe, but I don't see it leading us to a Lehman-style contagion. 
 ''At some point,'' he added, ''you revert to a focus on our fundamentals, and those are decidedly better than conventional wisdom has it.''
 Perhaps so, but vertiginous drops in stock markets, belligerent rumbles from North Korea and an American economy throwing off mixed signals has economists treading carefully. Rarely have so many central banks taken such extraordinary steps to stave off banking and national collapses. Their wariness about what they have wrought is palpable.
 James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, traveled to London and assayed a noticeably careful defense of the global economy in a speech. He did not discount the risk of a financial contagion jumping the Atlantic, given the weakened state of global finances and the risky nature of the bailouts. Governments and central banks must strive to re-establish credibility, he said, even as markets shake and gyrate. ''This new threat to global recovery will probably fall short of becoming a worldwide recessionary shock,'' he said.
 There is no shortage of storm clouds to bolster a gloomier take. Japan and Europe are perched near the edge of deflation. And as one European leader after another takes a vow of austerity amid talk of layoffs and deep spending cuts, American manufacturers -- which have led the domestic recovery -- could find their goods piling up in warehouses and on docks. 
 ''We were counting on a weak dollar and a strong European economy; instead we got a strong dollar and a weak Europe -- that is clearly not good for our economy,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, former chief economist of the World Bank and a professor of economics at Columbia University. ''It certainly increases our likelihood of a double-dip recession.'' 
 As well, the rate set in London that banks charge each other for short-term loans, known as Libor, has marched steadily upward in recent weeks, reaching a 10-month high this week. Such loans act as the fiscal grease that lets banks lend freely. Their rising cost slows lending -- something Mr. Stiglitz says is a consequence of governments' bailing out banks without forcing them to make a clean accounting of their losses and bad loans.
 ''The credit markets' reaction is sending a strong message that the banks don't trust each other's balance sheets,'' Mr. Stiglitz said.
 There are, too, lingering questions about the strength and sustainability of the American recovery -- questions that loom as more important than ever given the weaknesses in Europe.
 The American economy has picked up recently, with consumer spending jumping higher and debt falling sharply. Manufacturers, too, have put a collective toe back into the hiring market, and bankers are exhaling -- even if they are not lending at their former levels.
 Mr. Barbera speculates that the quirks of federal data collection have understated the strength of hiring. ''All the measures of industrial production are better than expected,'' he said.
 But state governments, from California to New Jersey and New York, are readying draconian spending cuts, with forecasts of layoffs of hundreds of thousands of state workers. Residential housing inventories continue to grow and prices continue to soften. And large businesses have yet to begin hiring in considerable numbers; the ranks of long-term unemployed have swelled to a number not seen for decades.
 ''This has to go down as one of the most fragile economic recoveries in recorded history,'' said David Rosenberg, chief economist for Gluskin Sheff, an investment firm. ''We've had jobless recoveries before, but this recovery has been totally devoid of income growth, and that's very disturbing.''
 Salvation could come from unexpected corners. The United States, in the words of the St. Louis Fed chief, might be ''an unwitting beneficiary of the crisis in Europe.'' That is the lesson suggested by recent history. When the Asian economies shuddered and currencies nearly collapsed in 1998, many economists predicted the tremors would take down the United States and European economies. Quite the opposite occurred. 
 A stream of money flowed from Asian banks into United States Treasury bonds, and interest rates fell as a result. Oil prices also dropped. And the United States emerged stronger.
 ''Everyone competed to reduce their G.D.P. forecasts and it ended up being much stronger than forecast,'' recalled Mr. Barbera.
 There is suggestive evidence that this could happen again. American interest rates have fallen in recent days, as investors apparently seek refuge in Treasury bonds. And talk of a slowdown has caused the price of oil to fall, which helps the American consumer.
 A risk attends here, too. Pumping so much money into a nation can be like pumping adrenalin into a sick patient -- it masks the underlying infection. It could be argued that the infusion of cash in 1998 further inflated the Internet stock bubble, which popped several years later with disastrous consequences.
 Mr. Bullard raised that warning obliquely in his speech Tuesday, suggesting that while the United States might draw temporary advantage from the European crisis, it must ''directly address'' its fiscal problems if it is to retain credibility with credit markets. After all, along with the countries of the euro zone, Britain and the United States are running outsize deficits, compounded by their spending to stimulate the economy.
 The ability of American officials to pull this off while markets jump and twist poses a considerable challenge. 
 ''A lot of our recovery was financed by government handouts, and the sustainability of that is open to question,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc. ''I see lots of fits and starts ahead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A line in Denver last Thursday for jobs at a new supermarket. The U.S. unemployment rate was 9.9 percent in April, and layoffs here and abroad could significantly slow the improving economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (91%); RECESSION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (66%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



654 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON FOOTBALL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: New York's Allure Overcame the Cold

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
IRVING, Tex.
 The idea for the New York area hosting an outdoor Super Bowl was hatched nearly four years ago, when the Giants and the Jets agreed to build a new stadium together in the Meadowlands. The Jets' hopes for an enclosed stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan had fallen through, even though N.F.L. owners had awarded them a Super Bowl that was conditional on getting the stadium built. So when the teams joined forces, the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson, brought with him the pie-in-the-sky notion that the game should come to New York, anyway. 
 John Mara, a Giants co-owner, was not so sure. There had been sentiment for New York hosting a Super Bowl at Giants Stadium shortly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, but that support had withered away. Johnson, though, was relentless, Mara said. Johnson is a relative newcomer to ownership, having owned the Jets for only 10 years, and he is viewed as the less influential owner in the forced marriage between the Giants, one of the N.F.L.'s flagship franchises, and the Jets. 
 But as he began to ask around the league about the idea, Mara was surprised to find enthusiasm for a game in the New York-New Jersey region. And so on Tuesday, with Mara wearing his father's 1956 championship game ring for good luck, and with his fellow owners lured by the idea of playing the sport's biggest game on the nation's largest stage, the N.F.L. awarded the 2014 Super Bowl to New York-New Jersey, making the New Meadowlands Stadium the host of the first outdoor cold-weather Super Bowl in history.
 ''Why not,'' Johnson said after the vote. ''We play every other game in cold weather, rain and snow. Would I want to do it every year? Probably not. But 2014 sounds good.''
 Even with a new $1.6 billion stadium, the New York area's bid needed four ballots to gain the required simple majority of 32 votes in the secret vote. It beat out a proposal from Tampa, Fla., which pointedly emphasized warm weather in its bid.
 The vote also represented an embrace of the New York region's unique entertainment, promotional and financial opportunities. The proposal called for everything from a Super Bowl float in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade to a party at Liberty State Park in Jersey City. But of more interest to a league bent on building revenue and an international audience is that the weeklong extravaganza would play out in the global news media and business capital, and in an area where 36 percent of the 20 million residents were born outside the United States. 
 ''I do believe New York is a unique market,'' Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''It's the No. 1 market in our country and in many cases around the world. It will be a great experience for our fans and a great experience for the N.F.L.'' 
 Those considerations clearly outweighed concerns by some owners opposed to a cold-weather game where snow could wreak havoc on a week's worth of parties and planning, as well as on the outcome of the championship game. The New York-New Jersey bid included details about how many people with shovels could be deployed to dig the stadium out of snow and about plans to hand out seat and hand warmers to fans and have fire pits in parking lots.
 During the presentation, the bid committee ran clips of cold-weather games and noted that weather did not deter millions of people from visiting New York to see the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center or to celebrate New Year's Eve in Times Square. 
 But the owners who worried that a vote for New York-New Jersey would create a precedent for other cold-weather cities were probably correct about the door having been opened. Minutes after the vote was concluded, the Redskins' owner, Daniel Snyder, who has long wanted to host a Super Bowl, said he wanted to bring the game to the Washington area.
 Washington, much like New York, would seem to be among the strongest candidates to get a cold-weather game because of its nonfootball attractions. 
 ''I think New York will do a great job hosting it,'' Snyder said. ''We're looking forward to hosting one in D.C., the nation's capital. I think they'll show what a big-time city like New York can do and we'll show what a big-time city like Washington can do.''
 Cold-weather Super Bowls are unlikely to become the norm, but the N.F.L. has made no promise that the New York-New Jersey game would be a one-time cold-weather event. According to the Pro Football Hall of Fame Web site, the coldest outdoor game in Super Bowl history was Super Bowl VI at Tulane Stadium in New Orleans in 1972, with a game-time temperature of 39 degrees. Super Bowl IX in 1975, also at Tulane Stadium, was 46 degrees.
 And five other outdoor games had game-time temperatures in the 50s. According to the New York-New Jersey bid, the average high temperature in February is 40 degrees, with an average low of 24.1 degrees, and an average monthly precipitation of 2.7 inches.
 The host committee must raise $40 million for the event. But estimates for the economic impact on the area range from $55 million to $550 million, the optimistic number proffered by the bid organizers.
 The Giants and the Jets will not make any money directly off the Super Bowl, but the promise of hosting the game is likely to ratchet up interest among corporations for the multimillion-dollar naming rights for the new stadium. Interest slowed during the recession. And with four years of buildup, the floodgates for sponsorships and suite sales -- which allow holders access to Super Bowl tickets -- will probably increase. 
 But that was not on owners' minds Tuesday. They are caretakers of the most aggressively hyped event in American sports and the bid promised more of that -- a ''season of events'' to promote the game for a full year -- than any other city could offer. The buildup to the vote alone generated more buzz than any other Super Bowl vote in history. 
 The Giants co-chairman Steve Tisch recalled how his father, Robert Tisch, who was a co-owner, loved attending Super Bowls and how he happy he was at his last one in Jacksonville, Fla., as his health was failing. Some of the support the bid enjoyed was a kind of homage to the Mara family, which enjoys deep respect from fellow owners for the contributions Wellington Mara, John's father, made to the N.F.L. With a nudge from one of the newest owners, the old guard and the new have delivered a game that, in spectacle and perhaps in snow, could top anything the N.F.L. has seen before. 
 ''We've come a long way since the Polo Grounds in 1925 when we used to hand out tickets,'' John Mara said. ''The league has come a long way and the sport has come a long way. It would have been a very proud moment for my father.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Giants' Justin Tuck and the Jets' Darrelle Revis were in Times Square after New York-New Jersey won the 2014 Super Bowl. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS LANZANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B13)
New Jersey Gov. Christopher J. Christie and the Jets' Nick Mangold after the announcement that the Super Bowl was headed north. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jonathan Tisch, left, and John Mara, center, the Giants' coowners, and Woody Johnson, the Jets' owner, found support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14) GRAPHIC: 2014 Forecast: Around Super Sunday 2014, expect temperatures to be in the 30s with a 40 percent chance of precipitation in East Rutherford, N.J., based on local weather history. (Source: AccuWeather) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); THANKSGIVING (70%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



655 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1176 words

PERSON: David Ginsburg 

HEADLINE: David Ginsburg, Lawyer, Dies at 98; Led 1960s Panel on Race Relations

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
David Ginsburg, a liberal lawyer and longtime Washington insider who helped found the Americans for Democratic Action and led the presidential commission on race relations whose report, in 1968, warned that the United States was ''moving toward two societies -- one black, one white, separate and unequal,'' died Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 98.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Mark said.
 Mr. Ginsburg arrived in Washington in 1935 and quickly emerged as one of the brightest of the New Dealers. He helped draft laws on price controls during World War II and served as an adviser on reorganizing the German economy after the Allied victory. 
 In 1967, as race riots engulfed Detroit and Milwaukee, after similar disturbances in Los Angeles, Newark and Chicago, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Ginsburg executive director of the National Commission on Civil Disorders. Known as the Kerner Commission, after its chairman, Gov. Otto Kerner of Illinois, the panel was charged with seeking out the causes of the riots and proposing solutions.
 In a report that became a surprise best seller when issued in paperback, the commission argued that the riots were a form of social protest by blacks against longstanding injustices and that white Americans, largely oblivious to the plight of black citizens, were complicit in creating a racist, economically oppressive society.
 In the 1970s, Mr. Ginsburg successfully represented Henry A. Kissinger in his long battle to keep private the transcripts of his telephone conversations while serving as secretary of state and national security adviser under President Richard M. Nixon.
 In 1980, the Supreme Court, reversing the decisions of two lower courts, ruled in Kissinger v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press that the transcripts did not fall under the Freedom of Information Act because they were outside the executive branch.
 Charles David Ginsburg was born on April 20, 1912, in Manhattan. After the family's Lower East Side grocery failed, the Ginsburgs started over in Huntington, W.Va., where prosperous relatives lived.
 Mr. Ginsburg graduated in 1932 from West Virginia University, where he studied economics and politics. Three years later, he earned a law degree at Harvard.
 With help from his mentor, Felix Frankfurter, soon to be a United States Supreme Court justice, Mr. Ginsburg found work with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. There he joined an eager army of like-minded liberal idealists. ''Everybody wanted to make a difference,'' he told The Washington Post in 1997, ''and they wanted your ideas if you had them.''
 He clerked for Justice William O. Douglas at the Supreme Court for a year but returned to the S.E.C. after war broke out in Europe. In April 1941 he became general counsel to the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply (called the Office of Price Administration after January 1942), whose aggressive anti-inflationary policies and proposals for close control of the economy earned the wrath of political conservatives.
 Like his boss, the economist Leon Henderson, and colleagues like John Kenneth Galbraith, Mr. Ginsburg became a political target. He resigned in 1943, saying he was ''physically tired and a little dispirited.'' Republican congressmen then accused him of trying to pull strings to secure an officer's commission in the Army after having been deferred for more than a year as an ''irreplaceable'' government employee.
 President Franklin D. Roosevelt rose to his defense in a detailed letter to the new head of the Office of Price Administration. ''I am sure that when the political storms blow over,'' he wrote, ''David's patriotic, unselfish and distinguished service to his country will be duly recognized.''
 While at the O.P.A., Mr. Ginsburg hired Nixon, fresh out of Duke University's law school. ''He worked with us for about a year, and then went into the military, where he was sent overseas,'' he told The Alexandria Times in 2008. ''Nixon had a distinct personality that did not seek friendship, but he did a first-rate, responsible job.''
 Mr. Ginsburg enlisted in the Army as a private, driving trucks in a supply battalion, and rose to captain. After the war he served on the staff of Gen. Lucius D. Clay in Germany, where he attended the Potsdam Conference and the early Nuremberg war trials.
 In 1946 he founded the Washington law firm of Ginsburg & Leventhal, which later became Ginsburg, Feldman & Bress. It dissolved in 1998, and he joined Powell, Goldstein, from which he retired in 2007 at the age of 95.
 Mr. Ginsburg's first two marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his son Mark, of Paris, he is survived by his wife, Marianne Lais Ginsburg; another son, Jonathan, of Chantilly, Va.; a daughter, Susan, of Alexandria; and two grandchildren.
 In 1947, Mr. Ginsburg joined with former New Dealers to create the Americans for Democratic Action to counter Communist influence in the Democratic Party. Today, with chapters across the country, it is one of the nation's leading liberal advocacy groups.
 As counsel to the Jewish Agency's office in Washington, Mr. Ginsburg was part of an inner circle of advisers to the Zionist leader Chaim Weizmann and helped smooth the way to the Truman administration's recognition of the new state of Israel, with Mr. Weizmann as its first president, in 1948.
 While representing a long list of influential clients, Mr. Ginsburg intermittently returned to government service. Johnson appointed Mr. Ginsburg to serve on several presidential commissions and boards created to avert rail and air strikes and assess the state of the postal service.
 The Kerner Report, however, led to a breach. Mr. Ginsburg, one of its principal authors, used pungent language to paint a bleak picture of American race relations and black life in the ghettos. ''What white Americans have never fully understood, but what the Negro can never forget, is that white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto,'' he wrote. ''White institutions created it, white institutions maintain it and white society condones it.''
 Without an ambitious legislative program to promote integration, remake the slums and generate jobs, he argued, the United States was in danger of slipping into a state of near-apartheid.
 Johnson was infuriated that the report failed to mention his contributions to civil rights. He rejected the commission's findings and severed relations with Mr. Ginsburg.
 More than 20 years later, Mr. Ginsburg remained pessimistic about the problems addressed in the report. ''The conditions now, in my view, are unquestionably worse in the inner cities,'' he told The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1992. ''Education is worse. Housing is worse. Unemployment is worse. We now have a drug problem that we didn't have in 1967 and 1968. There are millions of handguns. The cities have been essentially disregarded by the federal government.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Ginsburg with President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); RACE & RACISM (91%); RIOTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRANSCRIPTS (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (56%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (84%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



656 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Transit's Ills Are Worse Than Accounts Of Spitting

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The train crawled to a stop. Ahead, somewhere in a tunnel below 96th Street on the West Side of Manhattan, a 20-foot section of rail had broken. It was a good moment -- actually, a good half-hour -- to review the headlines. 
 City bus drivers were taking off three months to recover from being spit upon, all the city newspapers reported on Tuesday. The information was released by transit officials, who said that 51 drivers assaulted by spitters in 2009 had taken, on average, 64 days off with pay. 
 It was the outrage du jour. 
 Except that maybe it wasn't quite.
 After a day of research, union officials said that, in fact, most drivers took either no time off or very little after such attacks. 
 Of 69 spitting cases in 2009, 34 drivers came back to work for their next shift, and 9 took less than 10 days off, said John Paul Patafio, a bus driver and organizer with Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, which represents the bus drivers. Mr. Patafio said his statistics were based on official reports supplied by the transit agency. 
 The remaining 26 ''took quite a bit of time, but they were examined monthly by their own doctors and transit doctors,'' Mr. Patafio said. 
 ''They all had two doctors agreeing that they had to be held out,'' he continued.
 Asked for comment, officials from the transit agency agreed that the union numbers were correct.
 It hardly matters. The transit system in New York has turned into Greece: dead broke. Layoffs have started, service cuts will begin in a few weeks, and, while some careful trimming has been done, no one has come forward with a glimmer of a solution. 
 ''This is government by anecdote,'' said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders' advocacy group.
 During the past five years, transit spending grew by 7 percent annually, which was twice the rate of inflation. The union recently won an arbitration award granting an 11.5 percent pay increase over three years.
 Over the last decade, the debt of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has more than doubled: it was $13 billion in 2000. It now owes $30 billion in outstanding bonds, payable at interest rates of 4 percent to 5 percent. 
 Much of that money was borrowed in outright schemes to avert fare increases by refinancing old debt and kicking the costs into what used to be the future. By 2013, the riders will pay $2.2 billion a year just in interest, about 20 percent of every dollar in the authority's budget.
 At the time the money was borrowed, the bond deals were heavily criticized by fiscal monitors and riders' advocates, although M.T.A. officials defended them as the best of bad choices. In any event, the authority recently hired a new chief financial officer to help it deal with the debt. He happens to be a former Bear Stearns banker who advised the agency on borrowing the money a decade ago. 
 With no new subsidies in sight from either the state or city, labor costs have moved into the target zone because debt service cannot be hounded or embarrassed into shrinking itself.
 THERE is little doubt that the M.T.A. spends vast sums in ways that make no sense: for instance, the driver of an electric locomotive who switches to drive a diesel gets an extra day of pay for no additional work. A quarter of the workers use more than 15 sick days per year, and those absences contribute to a half-billion dollars in overtime costs. While other government agencies have started to curb their pensions, the Legislature has not made that possible for the M.T.A.
 Are the union and the M.T.A. talking? ''We've had conversations,'' said John Samuelsen, president of the transit workers' union. ''They're holding the loaded gun of layoffs to our heads. We didn't cause this crisis.''
 He hopes that Congress will authorize $2 billion in transit aid this year. Jay Walder, the chairman of the authority, apparently, and perhaps astutely, is not counting on it. 
 ''Jay has had conversations with Mr. Samuelsen; they're both on the same page, that the best chance of getting things done is talking quietly and less talking in the press,'' said Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for Mr. Walder.
 Now they tell us. 
 Government by anecdote is not worth a bucket of spit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (63%); INFLATION (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



657 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM BEIJING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Juggernaut Treads Path That Isn't Free of Pitfalls. (Just Ask Japan.)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Li Bibo contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The White House dispatched 200 dignitaries to China's capital for relationship-cementing talks this week, a number that bespeaks a world order rapidly turning upside down. From China's threefold economic growth in a decade to today's swarms of five-star hotels and six-figure autos, it is a cliche to say that the world has never before seen anything like this juggernaut.
 Actually, the world has. Twenty years ago, Japan was the juggernaut, a silky economic machine poised, according to conventional wisdom and more than a few best sellers, to dominate world trade and global diplomacy in the decades to come. When a flu-ridden President George Bush passed out at a Tokyo state dinner in 1992, vomiting on the leg of the Japanese prime minister, it was widely seen as emblematic of a recession-sapped West supplicating before a rising East. 
 That it never happened hardly foreshadows China's future prospects. Yet as outsiders behold China's transformation from peasant nation to economic colossus, the risks of extrapolating from China's robust present into an indeterminate future are not to be ignored. China's rise is doubtless an economic miracle. But like Japan's, China's state-driven economic model may prove more useful in earlier stages of development than in guaranteeing sustained growth well into the future.
 ''Japan had an economic model that worked phenomenally well for, what, 40 years? And then it stopped working,'' Arthur Kroeber, the managing director of Dragonomics, a Beijing-based economic forecasting firm, said in an interview. ''Does that prove the model for the first 40 years was wrong? No -- it proves that it was right for that stage of Japan's development.''
 Many of the complaints that United States officials brought to this week's Strategic and Economic Dialogue in Beijing -- about markets closed to foreign competition; about unfairly appropriating hard-won American technologies; about rigged currency values that swell American trade deficits -- may ring familiar to those who followed United States-Japan relations two decades ago.
 For much of the postwar 20th century, Japan built an empire of private companies closely tied to and favored by the state. It erected a trade colossus whose exports were pumped up -- American critics said -- by an artificially depressed yen. Japanese manufacturers were accused of arrogating American technologies to churn out low-cost electronics. Japan's retail and financial markets were all but impenetrable to American competitors.
 The United States trade deficit with Japan outraged Congress and helped prod Washington in the 1980s to orchestrate a wholesale appreciation of the yen's value against the dollar to help protect American manufacturers.
 China today also has a stable of mega-corporations, although unlike Japan's they are explicitly state-owned and often viewed as instruments of government policy. Broad sectors of the economy, including finance, communications, energy and some crucial manufacturing sectors, are effectively off limits to foreigners and even to most domestic competitors.
 The renminbi, China's currency, is in global opinion -- save in China -- held unduly low to keep China's export machine revved up. When Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner arrived here on Sunday, an opening argument to his counterparts was that Chinese rules were forcing American companies to surrender their technological jewels just for a ticket to compete in the Chinese market.
 Some of these tactics come straight from the playbook of Japan and other developing nations that have sought to raise their export-driven economies to a higher level. 
 China is different in two respects that may seem contradictory. On one hand, major industries like oil, telecommunications, banking and aviation are deemed strategic and are under tight state control. Of the 22 Chinese corporations listed on the Fortune Global 500, 21 are controlled by China's central government or state-run banks. Just one, Shanghai Automobile, is run by a local government. None are privately owned. 
 These ''national champions,'' as the government deems them, are the vanguard of China's push into global markets, and the evangelists of Chinese economic values.
 On the other hand, light industry, retailing and the nation's booming export sector are more free to play by Adam Smith's rules. In contrast to Japan, in China Western retailers and consumer goods, from Wal-Mart to Snickers to Tesco, are ubiquitous and compete vigorously with homegrown competitors. And many of China's leading exports, like iPods and Nike sneakers, are manufactured by or for foreign multinationals that retain most of the profits from their sale.
 By Chinese logic, there is no contradiction. Like free speech, human rights and any number of other societal basics, private enterprise in China is vibrant and open to outsiders, but only as long as it does not threaten the state's interests. 
 If this formula seems anathema to Western capitalists, Beijing's three decades of jackrabbit growth speak for themselves. Even a senior Treasury Department official in Beijing for this week's meetings said that China's fiscal stewards had basically perfected the art of balancing conflicting forces in an economy of 1.3 billion people.
 Less clear, many economists allow, is how long this formula will work. China itself is rapidly changing: already, low-cost competitors like Vietnam are siphoning some of the labor-intensive industries that powered Beijing's rise. The worldwide economic slowdown and the fact that China already dominates some crucial industries suggest that it can no longer count on ever-rising exports as a major source of growth. 
 Beijing has pledged to ease its reliance on exports by raising domestic consumption. But that requires a turnabout in spending habits by a population accustomed to saving for contingencies, like education and medical care, rather than spending. Turning that around may take time.
 And then there is China's debt. Some influential economists argue that China has grown in part by seizing people's savings to finance high-speed trains, steel factories and speculative real-estate investments. 
 How productive that state-led investment will turn out to be is a matter of debate. It has clearly aided China's development up to now. But just as exports cannot increase endlessly, at some point the returns from building new roads and factories are likely to diminish as well.
 The central government has surmounted several debt crises in the past decade, bailing out its banks after unwise investments. Many analysts anticipate more bailouts after the government flooded the economy with cheap money in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
 Japan's economic miracle ended with the collapse of a phenomenal real-estate bubble and was worsened by a series of policy errors that led to a long period of stagnation. China's economy is still at an earlier stage of development, and its government is likely to seek to avoid the mistakes that exacerbated Japan's slump. 
 But whether the state-driven investment and export-led development that has made China an economic power can be replaced soon by new sources of growth has become a more pressing question. 
 ''The Chinese fundamentals are good,'' Huang Yasheng, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, said in an interview. ''All I am saying is that the policy has not changed. You cannot rely on an artificial external stimulus to keep your economy going.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Signs of China's economic growth can be seen in Gushi, in Henan Province, where residential buildings have sprouted on land once used for farming. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



658 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 482 words

PERSON: Fritz Sennheiser 

HEADLINE: Fritz Sennheiser, 98, Executive, Dies

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Fritz Sennheiser, the founder and longtime chairman of Sennheiser Electronic, a leading maker of high-end audio equipment like microphones, headphones and infrared listening systems, died on May 17 at his home in Wedemark, Germany. He was 98. 
 The death was announced on the Web site of the Sennheiser Electronic Corporation, the company's United States subsidiary, which has headquarters in Old Lyme, Conn.
 Founded in 1945 in Wedemark with a staff of seven, Sennheiser now employs more than 2,100 people around the world. The company, which is wholly owned by the Sennheiser family, has manufacturing plants in Germany, Ireland and Albuquerque.
 In 2008, Sennheiser recorded sales of about $500 million, according to its Web site.
 Sennheiser professional equipment has long been ubiquitous in the fields of communications and entertainment, used by radio, television and recording engineers worldwide. Its personal audio accessories, including wireless and noise-canceling headphones, are routinely well reviewed in consumer-electronics publications.
 Today, Sennheiser microphones are used by recording artists including Pink, Beyonce and the Jonas Brothers.
 Among the innovations with which the company is credited is the invention, in the 1950s, of the shotgun mike, a slender, highly sensitive directional microphone now widely used in film and television production. 
 Fritz Sennheiser was born in Berlin on May 9, 1912. As a boy, he was fascinated by radios and built a simple crystal receiver. His first love was horticulture, however, and he dreamed of becoming a landscape gardener.
 The deep economic depression then affecting Germany made job prospects in landscaping slim, so the young Mr. Sennheiser studied electrical engineering at the Technical University of Berlin instead. In 1940, he earned a doctorate from the Heinrich Hertz Institute, where he later worked as an engineer.
 In World War II, Mr. Sennheiser helped the German Army with the radio transmission of coded messages.
 After the war, Mr. Sennheiser started the company that would bear his name. Begun as a small electronics laboratory, the young company had a stroke of luck when its first product, a tube voltmeter, was bought in quantity by Siemens, the electronics giant. This led to the development of Sennheiser's first microphone, also for Siemens, in 1947.
 Later Sennheiser products include among the first open headphones. Introduced in 1968, the headphones had flat disclike earpieces that sat atop the ears instead of the traditional deep cuplike ones that encased the ears completely.
 After retiring as Sennheiser's chairman in 1982, Mr. Sennheiser was succeeded by his son, Jorg.
 Mr. Sennheiser's wife, the former Hertha Greiser, died last year. Besides Jorg Sennheiser, who remains chairman, he is survived by a daughter, Karin Sennheiser; three grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HORTICULTURE (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (74%); WEB SITES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); FILM (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (55%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

COMPANY: SENNHEISER ELECTRONIC GMBH & CO KG (92%); SENNHEISER ELECTRONIC CORP (72%); SIEMENS AG (58%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (72%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

JOE JONAS (53%); NICK JONAS (53%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (53%); KEVIN JONAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



659 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 577 words

PERSON: Maurice J. Williams 

HEADLINE: Maurice J. Williams, Directed United Nations Food Aid, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Maurice J. Williams, who coordinated American disaster-relief efforts and then led a United Nations agency dedicated to relieving world hunger while warning repeatedly that not enough was being done to achieve that goal, died on May 10 in Bethesda, Md. He was 89 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
 The cause was complications from a fall, his son Jon said.
 Mr. Williams, an expert in international development policy, was director of the United Nations Food Council from 1978 to 1986. An arm of the General Assembly, the agency was established in 1974 to coordinate food programs of other United Nations agencies and national governments. Under Mr. Williams, the council concentrated on helping developing countries formulate strategies for food production, nutrition and disaster preparation.
 The council was formed shortly after the first World Food Conference was held in Rome. That meeting, at a time when famine was threatening swaths of Africa and Asia, led to a United Nations pledge to eradicate hunger and malnutrition.
 Five years later, although the sense of global crisis had dissipated because of improved crop yields, Mr. Williams warned, ''It is not possible to be optimistic or complacent in the face of evidence which indicates that there are probably more hungry and malnourished people in 1979 than the 450 million to whom the 1974 conference directed its attention.''
 Mr. Williams was no less concerned in 1984. ''There is still famine in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa,'' he said then. ''You still have hungry people on marginal land in parts of Asia and Latin America. In the slums of their cities people still go to bed hungry every night, unable to earn enough to buy food that is available.'' 
 Mr. Williams retired from the World Food Council in 1986; 10 years later its functions were taken over by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Food Program. 
 His leadership of the council was the culmination of nearly four decades of public service, including many missions abroad during famines and other disasters. 
 Mr. Williams was an international economist with the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency in the 1950s. He was director of the United States Agency for International Development's aid programs in Iran and Pakistan from 1963 to 1967 and deputy administrator of the agency from 1970 to 1974.
 When an earthquake devastated much of Managua, Nicaragua, in December 1972, President Richard M. Nixon sent Mr. Williams to administer American aid efforts there. He had previously coordinated American disaster relief in Peru, the Philippines, six drought-stricken West African countries and for the newly independent Bangladesh after the India-Pakistan war in 1971. 
 Maurice Jacoutot Williams was born in New Brunswick, Canada, on Nov. 13, 1920, one of two children of Alfred and Yvonne Theberge Williams. His father, an American citizen, was a salesman.
 Mr. Williams's studies at Northwestern University were interrupted by World War II. Stationed in London from 1943 to 1946, he rose to captain in the Army. He received his bachelor's degree from Northwestern after the war and went on to earn a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago in 1949. 
 Besides his son Jon, Mr. Williams is survived by his second wife, Joan Dunn Williams; two other sons, Peter and Stephen; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, the former Betty Bath, died in 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FAMINE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CROP PRODUCTION (72%); AGRICULTURE (69%); DROUGHT (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CANADA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



660 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Whitney Picks Downtown Site For Expansion

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
After 25 years of false starts, the board of the Whitney Museum of American Art has taken a step that will redefine the 80-year-old institution. It voted on Tuesday afternoon to begin construction on a building in the meatpacking district in Manhattan, to be completed by 2015, that will vastly increase the size and scope of the museum.
 The vote was unanimous. Adam D. Weinberg, the Whitney's director, said after the meeting, ''A year from now we will be breaking ground.''
 The board also agreed to sell a group of brownstones adjacent to the museum's signature Marcel Breuer-designed building on Madison Avenue and East 75th Street, and the museum's annex building around the corner on 74th Street. 
 The sale will effectively end any chance of the Whitney expanding in its current space, where it has been since 1966 and which it has been trying to enlarge since the architect Michael Graves unveiled the first of many expansion plans in 1985. 
 Without room to grow uptown, and without the income necessary to run two museums, the Whitney now faces the question of what to do with the Breuer building -- which may end up being shared, at least temporarily, by another institution, perhaps the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
 The board met not at the museum, as it usually does, but in a conference room at the Standard Hotel on Washington Street, a block and a half from the new site. During the two-hour meeting, Leonard A. Lauder -- the Whitney's chairman emeritus and largest benefactor, and until now an opponent of the project -- surprised everyone by voting in favor of the new building. Indeed, although there have been rumors for weeks that Mr. Lauder was considering resigning if the project went ahead, he spoke passionately in favor of it at the meeting. 
 ''Downtown is a new city, a new nation. Why shouldn't the Whitney be the museum of record there?'' Mr. Lauder said in an interview. 
 He cited several reasons for his change of heart. In addition to the board's having raised more money than was anticipated, and having done it more quickly, he said, ''there is no better time to build than now, with construction costs and interest rates at an all-time low.'' 
 ''There is a new generation of people who have come on the board who are not rooted to the past,'' Mr. Lauder said. ''It would be unfair for someone like me who grew up near the Whitney to believe it should stay there.''
 Still, he is concerned about the Whitney's financial future. ''I have no doubt they can build the museum, but once the surge is over, will they be able to create a new viewership that can sustain it?'' he asked. 
 Whatever happens, however, Mr. Lauder has gone to great lengths to ensure that the Whitney will not part with the Breuer building anytime soon. In 2008, when he gave the institution $131 million -- the biggest donation in its history -- the gift came with the stipulation that the building could not be sold for the foreseeable future.
 And that summer, concerned about the financial pressure that maintaining both the uptown museum and a possible downtown one would put on the Whitney, he met for lunch with Philippe de Montebello, then the Met's director, and broached the subject of a possible partnership. Thomas P. Campbell, Mr. de Montebello's successor, took up the discussion after he became director.
 Mr. Campbell, in a telephone interview on Tuesday, acknowledged that both boards had approved discussions between their institutions. 
 The timing could work particularly well for the Met. The partnership would not take place until the Whitney's new museum was completed in 2015, at which point the Met could embark on a much-needed renovation of its galleries of modern and contemporary art. Having a space to temporarily house those galleries just a few blocks away would be ideal, Mr. Campbell said. 
 ''No one should take away the notion that we are off-loading our modern or contemporary collections to another site,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''On the contrary, they are a vital part of a story the Met tells.'' He added that a collaboration between the two museums could also result in some exciting institutional cross-pollination.
 Certainly such an alliance would lighten the Whitney's financial burden. So far the board has raised about $372 million toward the downtown project, which it estimates will cost $680 million, a figure that includes construction and endowment. The sale of the brownstones and the annex building is expected to raise about $100 million more. 
 The vote to break ground downtown -- and the choice of holding it so close to the planned site -- were the latest in a series of moves that have been carefully choreographed by board members who saw the new building as the Whitney's last chance to grow after so many failed efforts at expansion. 
 Last year, the museum signed a contract with the city's Economic Development Corporation to buy the city-owned site, at the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that had just been converted into a park. The museum agreed to pay $18 million, about half the appraised value of the property. 
 Since then the Whitney has been making nonrefundable monthly payments of $50,000, credited toward the purchase price, to continue until the closing date, which has yet to be determined. The city has allocated $55 million toward the downtown building. 
 The Whitney has been struggling with space issues for decades. When it moved to the Breuer building, there were 2,000 works in its collection -- a number that has since grown to about 18,000 -- but there is only enough room to show about 150 works from its permanent holdings at one time. Many larger works in the collection have never been displayed because of the lack of space.
 After Mr. Graves's uptown addition fell through, there were other designs, by Rem Koolhaas and Renzo Piano. But each time the effort was abandoned because of the cost or the design or both. 
 The downtown Whitney, also by Mr. Piano, will be a six-story, 195,000-square-foot metal-clad building, with a dramatic cantilevered entrance. It will include more than 50,000 square feet of indoor galleries and 13,000 square feet of rooftop exhibition space, as well as classrooms, a research library, art conservation labs and a multi-use indoor/outdoor space for film, video and performance art. It will also include a restaurant, cafe and bookstore. 
 Most important, in Mr. Weinberg's view, ''it will have one of the largest column-free spaces to show art in New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The site in the meatpacking district near the High Line where the Whitney Museum plans to break ground next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) MAP: The downtown Whitney will be a six-story building. (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



661 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: The Latest on the Oil Spill

 BODY:
OBAMA HEADS TO GULF President Obama will travel to the Louisiana coast on Friday morning to assess the damage caused by the spill and to monitor the cleanup efforts, the White House announced. 
 FISHERY DISASTER Commerce Secretary Gary Locke has declared a Gulf of Mexico fishery disaster for Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. The declaration will authorize emergency unemployment pay for commercial and charter fishermen if Congress approves the payments. 
 OIL COLLECTION BP says it has been able to siphon more oil with a mile-long tube after two days of falling amounts. Officials said they collected about 256,200 gallons on Monday. They collected only 47,040 gallons on Sunday and 57,120 gallons on Saturday. 
 VIDEO FEED BP said it would maintain the live video feed of the oil leak throughout the planned ''top kill'' effort to plug the well on Wednesday. The company initially was unsure that it would be able to show the maneuver, which involves injecting heavy drilling mud into the well.
 WILDLIFEZoos and aquariums around the country are mobilizing to help with the care and cleaning of animals affected by the spill, including sea turtles, manatees and whooping cranes. Last week three oiled sea turtles that were rescued were placed at the Audubon Aquatic Center for care and cleaning. The Minnesota Zoo is sending the center toothbrushes, towels and cleaning brushes to help remove the oil caked on the turtles, one of which weighs more than 100 pounds.
 STAR POWER The chefs John Besh and Paula Deen are teaming up during the New Orleans Wine and Food Experience to promote local seafood and raise money for the Louisiana Wildlife and Fisheries Foundation to help fishermen and chefs hurt by the oil spill. The festival opens Wednesday.
 MORE INFORMATION ONLINE An interactive map tracking the spill, live video of the leak and additional updates: 
 nytimes.com/national

GRAPHIC: MAP: MAY 26 FORECAST
MAY 24 AERIAL SURVEY (Sources: Deepwater Horizon Incident Joint Information Center
 NOAA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (91%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (72%); ANIMALS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); WILDLIFE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); BIRDS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GARY LOCKE (74%); PAULA DEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALABAMA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



662 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Republican Senators' Lunch With Obama Is Marked by Spirited Confrontations

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's luncheon Tuesday with Senate Republicans was not televised like a similar session earlier this year with the House opposition, but evidently it would have made for captivating theater.
 By nearly all accounts, pent-up frustrations boiled over as the president and the very lawmakers who have consistently opposed much of his agenda engaged in spirited and at times confrontational exchanges over immigration, spending, White House tactics and other issues during a private 75-minute session.
 Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's former presidential rival, lashed out at the administration for its portrayal of the new immigration law in his home state of Arizona. And Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee suggested that the administration had been less than sincere in trying to seek a bipartisan deal on the financial regulatory overhaul, which was passed last week with just four Republican votes. 
 ''To come in on the Tuesday after it all occurred and to now talk about seven or eight items he wants to do in a bipartisan way, I just asked him how he could reconcile that duplicity,'' Mr. Corker said. ''I was very aware that we were props today as we move into an election cycle.''
 White House officials later played down suggestions of hostility at the meeting, saying it was not as contentious as some Republicans were portraying it. Still, a White House statement noted that there were ''continued differences'' on important issues. 
 And as the president left the Capitol after the lunch session in the L.B.J. room off the Senate floor, he told reporters that there had been a ''good, frank discussion on a whole range of issues.'' 
 Whether he could count on any new Republican support on those issues was open to question, though participants said potential areas of agreement included easing Miranda warning requirements in cases of terrorism suspects and imposing new sanctions on Iran.
 ''I don't think we were going to hash out agreement on anything with a whole big group like that,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. ''That was not anticipated by him or by us.'' 
 The president's visit came as Congress is contending with a crush of issues before its Memorial Day break, including a measure paying for combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and a major package of tax breaks for businesses and extended benefits for the unemployed. 
 Even with Mr. Obama's appeal to Republicans, lawmakers and top aides were growing increasingly doubtful that the $200 billion tax bill, which could be considered by the House on Wednesday, could pass the Senate by the end of the week, raising the prospect that extended unemployment benefits could again lapse for some Americans.
 Mr. Obama's last private meeting with Senate Republicans was in January 2009 when he was newly inaugurated and pushing his economic stimulus plan. Partisan tensions have only grown since then in the aftermath of the health care fight and, most recently, the overhaul of rules governing banks and Wall Street.
 During the meeting, Mr. Corker, who had been negotiating with Democrats over the Wall Street legislation, said there was a ''tremendous disconnect'' between the president's call for bipartisanship and the way the administration conducted itself during the debate on the financial legislation.
 But according to aides, Mr. Obama said that while he would have loved to have 70 or 80 overall votes in favor of the measure, he was not going to water down the legislation in the interest of running up the vote total.
 In response to Mr. McCain, the president said, according to those present, that he had read and understood Arizona's tough new immigration law. He pointed out that his administration had done more than others in the area of border security and enforcement. He also expressed confidence that he could persuade a majority of Democratic senators to support tougher border security but said that ''solving the problems is not going to just be a function of border security.'' 
 Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who participants said served somewhat as a mediator during the session, said he warned the president not to try to move too quickly on immigration, saying a legislative failure on the issue like the one that occurred in 2007 could doom chances for any agreement for years.
 Republicans said they believed that the president was too quick to take offense during the meeting. But despite the occasionally testy back-and-forth, they said, they still considered the session worthwhile and productive, expressing gratitude for the time allowed by Mr. Obama.
 ''It was a candid and frank exchange, and we appreciated the opportunity to have him,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Senate Republican. ''Our members aren't bashful. They treated him with great respect and told him what they thought.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama walked with Terrance W. Gainer, the Senate sergeant at arms, on Tuesday as he arrived on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); MIRANDA RULE (62%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (54%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (54%); TERRORISM (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BOB CORKER (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



663 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: An Executive Without Much Privilege

BYLINE: By JOHN YOO. 
John Yoo, a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley and a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, is the author of ''Crisis and Command: A History of Executive Power From George Washington to George W. Bush.''

 BODY:
Berkeley, Calif.
 PRESIDENTIAL power has emerged as a potential topic of controversy in the nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court. Her supporters from both parties argue that she is a defender of executive power, citing her work as the Obama administration's advocate in the federal courts. This very claim has made critics nervous about her commitment to civil liberties and her views on using the criminal justice system in the war with Al Qaeda.
 True, Ms. Kagan has defended some of the Bush administration's counterterrorism policies on wiretapping and the detention of terrorists without criminal trial (policies on which I worked as a deputy assistant attorney general under President George W. Bush). But these positions provide little hint about what a Justice Kagan would think about executive authority sitting on the bench in time of war. 
 When defending its national security policies in court, this administration prefers to rely on Congress's Sept. 18, 2001, authorization to use military force against those responsible for the 9/11 attacks rather than the president's inherent powers as commander in chief and chief executive. President Obama may agree with George W. Bush on the usefulness of military commissions to try some terrorists, but he has different ideas about what gives a president the power to create them. 
 Though Ms. Kagan's thin record makes it difficult to draw many conclusions on her personal views, her academic work still provides hints into her thinking on this issue. In 2001, she published a 140-page article in The Harvard Law Review, ''Presidential Administration,'' written when she held no brief for the administration. Some have suggested that because her article looks favorably on President Bill Clinton's energetic use of executive orders and regulatory efforts, Ms. Kagan must agree with the Bush administration's theories of the unitary executive.
 This is a mistake that could only be based on reading just the first page of her article. Choosing not to study a treatise on presidential administrative policies containing 527 footnotes is an understandable act of self-preservation. Nonetheless, those who persevere will find that her article clearly and directly rejected the theories supporting the executive branch's broad constitutional powers. Rather, it is in line with the views of a majority of the Supreme Court justices and many liberal scholars who feel the executive branch's powers are quite limited.
 Here is what created the misimpression: In the paper, Ms. Kagan defended President Clinton's insistence that he alone commanded his cabinet officers and agency heads, even when they exercised authorities specifically delegated to them by Congress. ''Presidential control of administration,'' she wrote, ''expanded dramatically during the Clinton years, making the regulatory activity of the executive branch agencies more and more an extension of the president's own policy and political agenda.'' 
 Thus even if Congress, for example, gave the Environmental Protection Agency the job of setting clean air standards, President Clinton assumed the authority -- without any direct permission in law -- to set the standards on his own.
 And while Ms. Kagan criticized the Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations for using their presidential powers to deregulate the economy, she praised Bill Clinton for using those same powers to advance ''a distinctly activist and pro-regulatory governing agenda.'' To her, Clintonian unilateralism served up just the antidote to bureaucratic ''vices (even pathologies), foremost among which are inertia or torpor.'' Lighting a fire under the agencies allowed ''active if incremental government'' through ''the development of regulatory solutions to national problems.'' 
 But for Ms. Kagan, finding this authority in the Constitution was a bridge too far, a view that put her firmly in the camp of those who see the president's powers as circumscribed. 
 She assiduously rejected any claim that presidents may manage the many functions of the vast administrative state because of their constitutional position as chief executive, a view she attributed to ''unitarians.'' (These are not your mother's non-Trinitarian Christians.) Instead, she concluded, the framers did not see the Constitution's vesting of the nation's ''executive power'' solely in the president as a grant of any substantive power. 
 She based her rejection of the unitary executive view on Supreme Court precedent. She invoked Youngstown Sheet and Tube v. Sawyer of 1952, in which the Supreme Court blocked President Harry Truman's seizure of the nation's steel mills during the Korean War, and supported Congress's power to effectively render whole agencies independent of presidential control.
 Incidentally, Justice Robert H. Jackson, who as attorney general in the early 1940s had laid claim to broad executive powers for President Franklin Roosevelt and had even written in support of his seizure of an aircraft factory, turned 180 degrees in Youngstown, insisting that Truman had no such right. He wrote a concurring opinion stating that, as a judge, he could not accept ''self-serving press statements of the attorneys for one of the parties,'' even when ''the advocate was himself.'' Should we expect anything more consistent of a Justice Kagan?
 In her law review article, Ms. Kagan also lauded Supreme Court holdings that Congress can prohibit presidents from firing subordinate officers, which effectively prevents the president from giving orders. This would place the executive agencies under the political thumb of the legislative branch. ''I acknowledge that Congress generally may grant discretion to agency officials alone,'' Ms. Kagan wrote, and ''the president must respect the limits of this delegation.'' 
 Under this approach, Congress could free the Justice Department, the Defense Department and any other agency created by Congress from presidential control. To be fair, Ms. Kagan thinks this would be a bad idea (she praised President Clinton's centralization of authority in the White House because it fostered ''accountability'' and ''effectiveness''). But she argued that the Constitution gives the president no power to prevent Congress from doing so.
 This is simply wrong. Article II of the Constitution vests in the president alone ''the executive power'' of the United States. As Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in his dissent from the court's 1988 decision upholding the constitutionality of the Office of the Independent Counsel, ''this does not mean some of the executive power, but all of the executive power.'' (His argument was proved prescient in 1999 when Congress let the law authorizing the independent counsel lapse.) 
 From the time of George Washington, presidents have understood Article II to grant them the authority to hire and fire all subordinate officers of the United States, and hence command their activities, even though the Constitution mentions only the power to appoint, not to remove. If Elena Kagan will not even permit presidents this small constitutional right, who can doubt that she will reject executive powers of greater consequence? 
 Alexander Hamilton first made clear that the president's right to fire his officers and his substantive powers over foreign affairs and national security all flow from the same constitutional source. ''The general doctrine then of our Constitution is, that the executive power of the nation is vested in the president,'' Hamilton wrote in defending George Washington's 1793 Neutrality Proclamation, ''subject only to the exceptions and qualifications'' in the text itself. 
 But if presidents cannot constitutionally command their secretaries of defense, as Ms. Kagan would allow, they certainly do not have the power to detain or interrogate enemy terrorists without criminal trial, monitor their communications or fire missiles at their leaders.
 The framers designed the presidency to play a modest role at home, using the veto to check Congress's excesses. In foreign affairs, however, the chief executive should enjoy flexible powers to grapple with challenges abroad for which Congress is ill suited. Ms. Kagan seems to harbor a reverse image of the original presidency -- vigorous domestically, constrained internationally. 
 The Senate hearings next month on her nomination will be our last chance to find out what Elena Kagan really believes. With the nation fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and locked in a struggle with Al Qaeda, her views on executive power may be the most important ones to learn more about.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); WIRETAPPING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



664 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Says Electric Car Is Sold Out for This Year

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said Tuesday that the company had already received 19,000 orders in the United States and Japan for the electric car that it would start selling at year-end.
 More than six months before the car, the Nissan Leaf, arrives at dealerships, the preorders mean that the car is sold out for this year and that the company might stop taking reservations, Mr. Ghosn said during a visit to the Detroit Economic Club. 
 ''The preorders are such that we are very comfortable with what we have undertaken,'' Mr. Ghosn said after the speech. ''The more we advance into it, the more comfortable we are with it.''
 Nissan plans to break ground Wednesday in Smyrna, Tenn., for a plant to build batteries for the Leaf and eventually other models, part of its goal to sell at least 500,000 electric cars worldwide starting in 2013. The first Leafs will be made in Japan, with assembly in Tennessee planned to start in 2012.
 Mr. Ghosn's enthusiasm for electric vehicles contrasts with some recent studies and with comments from other automakers, including Honda, suggesting that pure electric vehicles have little short-term potential. 
 General Motors is scheduled to begin selling a battery-powered plug-in car, the Chevrolet Volt, later this year, but the Volt also has a small gasoline engine so that drivers can go beyond the battery's expected range of 40 miles a charge.
 Mr. Ghosn said he did not want the Leaf, whose expected range is 100 miles on a full charge, to have a range-extending engine, a feature that G.M. has said would assuage drivers' worries about being stranded with a dead battery with no fast or easy way to recharge.
 ''We wanted to do a zero-emission vehicle,'' Mr. Ghosn said. ''I don't want gasoline in the car, period.''
 Nissan has given the Leaf a starting price of $32,780, minus a $7,500 federal tax credit. The Volt, whose price has not been disclosed, is expected to sell for close to $40,000 before the tax credit.
 Among the other electric vehicles planned for sale in the United States within several years are a battery-powered version of Ford's compact car, the Focus, and the Tesla Model S sedan, which will be built in California as part of a new partnership with Toyota announced last week.
 The preorders for the Leaf include 13,000 in the United States, where dealers take a $99 deposit, and 6,000 in Japan. 
 Mr. Ghosn said sales in the United States would be concentrated in areas where there was sufficient means to support electric vehicles, like cities in California and other states that are installing charging stations.
 ''We don't want to put the consumer in a situation where he buys the car and he doesn't know how to charge it and he doesn't know how to take care of it,'' he said.
 ''We will make sure that in the markets in which we put the car, the consumer has the basic infrastructure to be able to drive the car with peace of mind and not have to worry.''
 Mr. Ghosn, who also is chief executive of Nissan's partner, the French automaker Renault, declined to speculate on what would have happened if Nissan and Renault had completed the alliance they sought with G.M. in 2006, but he said he had no complaints about the American government's financial support to G.M. and Chrysler last year.
 ''No government in the world, no matter on the left or on the right, is going to let go hundreds of thousands of jobs,'' Mr. Ghosn said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Ghosn, Nissan's chief
 The Nissan Leaf, which is scheduled to arrive in dealerships later this year, is meant to travel 100 miles on a full charge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (94%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); EMISSIONS (64%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); 7201 (TSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



665 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL GUARD WILL BE DEPLOYED TO AID AT BORDER

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- President Obama will send up to 1,200 National Guard troops to the Southwest border and seek increased spending on law enforcement there to combat drug smuggling after demands from Republican and Democratic lawmakers that border security be tightened.
 The decision was disclosed by a Democratic lawmaker and confirmed by administration officials after Mr. Obama met on Tuesday with Republican senators, several of whom have demanded that troops be placed at the border. The lawmakers learned of the plan after the meeting. 
 But the move also reflected political pressure in the president's own party with midterm election campaigns under way and with what is expected to be a tumultuous debate on overhauling immigration law coming up on Capitol Hill.
 The issue has pushed Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, into something of a corner. As governor of Arizona, she demanded that Guard troops be put on the border. But since joining the Obama administration, she has remained noncommittal about the idea, saying as recently as a month ago that other efforts by Mr. Obama had made the border ''as secure now as it has ever been.'' 
 The troops will be stationed in the four border states for a year, White House officials said. It is not certain when they will arrive, the officials said.
 The troops will join a few hundred members of the Guard already assigned there to help the police hunt for drug smugglers. The additional troops will provide support to law enforcement officers by helping observe and monitor traffic between official border crossings. They will also help analyze trafficking patterns in the hope of intercepting illegal drug shipments.
 Initial word of the deployment came not in a formal announcement from the White House -- indeed, it was left to administration officials speaking on the condition of anonymity to fill in some details -- but from a Democratic member of the House from southern Arizona who is running in what is expected to be a competitive race for re-election.
 ''The White House is doing the right thing,'' the congresswoman, Representative Gabrielle Giffords, said in a statement announcing the decision. ''Arizonans know that more boots on the ground means a safer and more secure border. Washington heard our message.''
 Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican whose opponent in a coming primary has relentlessly criticized him on immigration, said Tuesday that he welcomed Mr. Obama's move but that it was ''simply not enough.''
 Mr. McCain called for the introduction of 6,000 National Guard troops to police the Southwestern border, with 3,000 for Arizona alone. In a letter to Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, two Obama administration officials said that the proposal infringed on his role as commander in chief and overlooked gains in border security.
 Calls for sending the Guard to the border grew after the shooting death of an Arizona rancher in March that the police suspect was carried out by someone involved in smuggling. Advocates of the controversial Arizona state law giving the police a greater role in immigration enforcement played up what they described as a failure to secure the border as a reason to pass the law.
 Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican who is running for a full term, has requested Guard troops at the border but decided not to use her authority to do it herself, citing the state's tattered finances. The governors of New Mexico and Texas also pleaded for troops.
 From 2006 to 2008, President George W. Bush made a larger deployment of Guard troops under a program called Operation Jump Start. At its peak, 6,000 Guard troops at the border helped build roads and fences in addition to backing up law enforcement officers.
 Those Guard troops contributed to the arrest of more than 162,000 illegal immigrants, the rescue of 100 people stranded in the desert and the seizure of $69,000 in cash and 305,000 pounds of illicit drugs.
 The soldiers will not directly make arrests of border crossers and smugglers, something they are not trained to do.
 Rick Nelson, a senior fellow who studies domestic security at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said that the additional spending could improve security over the long term but that the National Guard deployment was not sufficient for ''an overwhelming change that will change the dynamics on the border.''
 ''This is a symbolic gesture,'' he said. ''At the end of the day, the face of border security is still going to be Customs and Border Protection, the law enforcement community. It's not going to be the National Guard.''
 Democrats and Republicans who agreed with the move rushed to take credit for it, including Ms. Brewer, who said her signing of the new Arizona law had pushed the administration.
 ''I am pleased that President Obama has now, apparently, agreed that our nation must secure the border to address rampant border violence and illegal immigration without other preconditions, such as passage of 'comprehensive immigration reform,' '' she said.
 Terry Goddard, the Arizona attorney general and a Democrat running for governor, released a statement with the headline ''Goddard Secures Administration Commitment for $500 million for National Guard, Border Security.'' In an interview, Mr. Goddard said, ''I think it is a good indication that the administration is taking us seriously.''
 But some Democrats were skeptical.
 Representative Harry E. Mitchell of Arizona, a Democrat facing re-election in a Republican-leaning district, said it was ''going to take much more to secure the border.'' He proposed a minimum of 3,000 troops.
 Some Republicans said the deployment of the troops should not overshadow the need for a comprehensive approach to the illegal immigration problem.
 ''Arizona and other border states are grateful for the additional resources at the border,'' said Representative Jeff Flake of Arizona. ''But I hope that this is merely the first step in a process that culminates in Congress passing comprehensive immigration reform.''
 Obama administration officials had resisted sending Guard troops to the border but had never ruled it out. They pointed to a variety of improvements at the border, including a record seizure of drug-related cash and guns, falling or flat rates of violent crime in border towns, and record lows in the flow of illegal immigrants across the border. Analysts give the dismal economy much of the credit for that.
 In his meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday, Mr. Obama said improving border security alone would not reduce illegal immigration and reiterated that a reworking of the immigration system could not be achieved without more Republican support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (57%); CARL LEVIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



666 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Little Progress on North Korea as China Talks End

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Michael Wines contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China and the United States wrapped up three days of high-level meetings with a handful of trade and energy agreements but little progress on the most pressing American priority: winning China's backing for new measures against North Korea, which South Korea has accused of torpedoing one of its warships.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said China would take ''a period of careful consideration in order to determine the best way forward in dealing with North Korea as a result of this incident,'' suggesting that there was little expectation for joint action to condemn the attack. 
 China has been reluctant to hold North Korea responsible for the sinking last March, which killed 46 sailors. As a veto-wielding member of the United Nations Security Council, China's support, or at least its acquiescence, would be needed to pass any resolution against North Korea.
 The United States has thrown its full weight behind South Korea's effort to take the incident to the United Nations. Mrs. Clinton spent much of her time this week huddled with Chinese officials, arguing the case that North Korea was responsible for the attack and that its aggression demanded a response.
 On Tuesday, she tried to put the best face on China's position, saying that President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao had conveyed their ''deep regret'' at the loss of the crew. Mr. Wen will fly to Seoul on Friday to meet President Lee Myung-bak, which she said might move things forward.
 ''We expect to be working together with China in responding to North Korea's provocative action,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference after the meetings ended. ''I think it is absolutely clear that China not only values but is very committed to regional stability.''
 But Chinese leaders did not publicly mention North Korea by name during the meeting, and China's state councilor who oversees foreign affairs, Dai Bingguo, called on the United States and others to ''calmly and appropriately handle the issue, and avoid escalation of the situation.''
 On the economic side of the ledger, the Americans claimed some modest progress.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner took note of President Hu's reference to a coming reform of China's currency policy, saying, ''We welcome the fact that China's leaders have recognized that the reform of the exchange rate is an important part of their broader reform agenda.''
 But he added, ''This is, of course, China's choice,'' reflecting the fact that China has made clear it will not loosen the dollar peg on its currency in response to prodding by the United States.
 Mr. Geithner also credited China for starting to shift its economic growth from exports to domestic consumption -- praise that some economists say is premature, given China's continuing reliance on exports.
 The sovereign debt crisis in Greece cast a smaller shadow on the meeting, with Chinese officials worried about how it would affect exports to Europe, their largest market. Mr. Geithner played down those jitters, saying, ''Europe has the capacity to manage these challenges.''
 The United States pointed to progress on two issues of importance to American investors: a change in Chinese rules on innovation that hurt foreign companies, and its pledge to submit a revised offer to join the World Trade Organization's agreement on government procurement by July 2010. There were also agreements on issues like clean energy and shale gas exploration.
 With few concrete policy agreements, the United States and China played up the personal side of the relationship.
 Mrs. Clinton took part in a ceremony to promote student exchanges. The Chinese government agreed to help pay for 10,000 students to study for doctorate degrees in the United States, while President Obama has a goal of sending 100,000 Americans to China over the next four years.
 The tone was even lighter in the encounters Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Geithner had with the Chinese news media. In a joint interview with Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV, they were quizzed about child-rearing and movie-going habits. (She puts up with former President Bill Clinton's taste for action films.)
 On the CCTV talk show ''Dialogue,'' Mrs. Clinton was asked about the plans for the wedding of her daughter, Chelsea. She confessed that it was the most important thing in her life right now.
 Nobody asked Mrs. Clinton about human rights, and she barely mentioned it this week. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article missquoted Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton as saying North Korea, when referring to a recently sunk naval vessel. She said, ''We are very concerned about the sinking of the South Korean vessel.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Vice Premier Wang Qishan of China on Tuesday in Beijing. Mrs. Clinton called on China to support international pressure against North Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); VETO (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); CONSUMPTION (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); HU JINTAO (78%); WEN JIABAO (58%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



667 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Investors Get Jittery on a Global Scale

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Sewell Chan and Christine Hauser contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Once more, Wall Street is running scared. 
 As fears grow that Europe could face a full-blown financial crisis, potentially damaging the economy in the United States, investors are abandoning risky bets in the financial markets and rushing for safety instead. 
 After gaining momentum in recent weeks, this shift is buffeting not only the world's stock markets but also the credit markets, where the strains seem to be rising almost by the day. 
 The worry is that the credit markets -- which are where the American financial crisis began and which are now the locus of Europe's problems -- are entering a dangerous new period. The cost of credit is already rising in the interbank markets, where banks borrow money to finance themselves from day to day. 
 The global charge for safety was apparent in the financial markets on Tuesday, when the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled below 10,000 before staging an afternoon rally. While share prices recovered by the close, leaving major indexes about where they started the day, traders pointed to the potential danger signals flashing in the markets for bonds and currencies. 
 The credit markets have not frozen as they did in 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers. But the flight to safety is nonetheless creating sharp divisions among companies -- and entire countries -- that are perceived as risky and those that are considered relatively safe. 
 ''Rates are creeping higher, but the system is still working,'' said Jim Caron, an interest rate strategist at Morgan Stanley. ''That's what's different to the crisis in 2008, for now.''
 On Tuesday, investors again flocked to United States Treasury securities, the financial equivalent of stuffing money under the mattress. That is good news for many borrowers in the United States -- including the federal government -- since the hunger for Treasuries is holding down interest rates here. 
 Investors also rushed to buy dollars and yen, traditional havens in financial storms, and sell the beleaguered euro. And they drove up prices of German government bonds, sending the yields on those investments, which move in the opposite direction of their prices, to their lowest levels since 1990. The tensions on the Korean Peninsula only added to sense of unease in the markets. 
 The focus of Europe's problems is rapidly shifting from Greece to Spain, one of the world's largest economies. The decision by Spanish authorities to seize a savings bank over the weekend and then encourage the merger of four other troubled banks raised questions about the health of Spain's broader banking system. 
 While banks in the United States have relatively little exposure to their Greek counterparts, Spanish banks owe American financial institutions about $197.7 billion, according to the Bank for International Settlements. According to Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, Spanish borrowers in both the government and private sectors owe foreign investors about $1.1 trillion. In comparison, Greece's external debt is closer to $236 billion, he estimates.
 ''Spain is the focus now,'' he said in a note.
 In credit markets, those worries helped push up the three-month London interbank offered rate -- the interest rate at which banks are willing to lend money to each other -- for the 11th consecutive day on Tuesday, to 0.536 percent, the highest rate since July 2009 and about double the rate at the beginning of this year. 
 Such a rise is generally seen as a sign of stress in the banking system, and according to the futures market, the rate could double again by December, helped higher by positive growth in the United States. Libor is still far below the 5 percent witnessed at the height of the financial crisis in 2008.
 Another measure of stress in the markets, a measure of volatility known as the VIX, has also risen sharply over the last few weeks but it remains about half its level in 2008.
 Since April, as nervousness over Europe has grown, the flight to safety has played out in markets around the world. Investors have sold emerging market bonds and relatively risky currencies like the Australian dollar. Many instead piled into Treasuries. 
 On Tuesday, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.16 percent, one of the lowest levels it has reached in a year. The German bund yield fell to 2.56 percent, its lowest level since 1990. The flight from risk has hit stock markets -- in Britain, the FTSE 100 closed down below 5,000 for the first time since October. 
 ''The bottom line is risk aversion has gone up,'' said Adrian Cronje, chief investment officer of Balentine.
 In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average which had gone as low as 9,774.48, closed down 0.2 percent at 10,043.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.04 percent at 1,074.03. Adding to the fear factor on Tuesday, analysts said, was the standoff between North and South Korea, which only seemed to propel the rush by investors around the world to safe haven assets. 
 The impact of all this on the economy is still an open question. Some home mortgage rates are pegged to Libor, so the convulsions in Europe could have an effect on the economy here by making borrowing more costly. Then there is the sharp appreciation of the dollar against the euro and a feared slowdown in European growth, which could hurt American exports. 
 Investors are making an unequivocal assumption that fiscal cutbacks will slow global growth. Oil and copper, both barometers of economic expansion, have fallen sharply in recent weeks. But some economists say they think cheaper raw materials could be a spur to growth down the road.
 As the markets tumbled, the top United States economic policy makers, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, were concluding a meeting in Beijing with their Chinese counterparts. Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to speak Wednesday in Tokyo at a conference sponsored by the Bank of Japan.
 In London, James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said he did not think the financial turmoil in Europe was likely to set off another global economic downturn. 
 ''The U.S. may actually be an unwitting beneficiary of the crisis in Europe, much as it was during the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s,'' Mr. Bullard said. ''This is because of the flight to safety effect that pushes yields lower in the U.S. Of course the U.S. also has its own fiscal problems that must be directly addressed in a timely manner if the nation is to maintain credibility in international financial markets.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Investors turned away from financial markets in favor of Treasuries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B9) CHARTS: Getting Worried: Nervousness in the world financial markets is being reflected in stocks, bonds and interest rates, which are causing volatility to rise.: Dollars to a euro, weekly prices
Standard & Poor's 500, weekly closes
Chicago Board Options Exchange SPX Volatility index, weekly
3-month Libor rate, weekly prices (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)(B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); MERGERS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (54%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



668 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: BP Prepares for 'Top Kill' Procedure to Contain Leak

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Matthew L. Wald and Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- As BP prepared Tuesday for its most ambitious effort yet to stop the torrent of oil gushing into the Gulf of Mexico, company officials emphasized that the procedure known as a top kill had never been tried so far underwater, that it might be delayed again and that it might not succeed at all. 
 The consequences for BP are profound: A successful capping of the leaking well could finally begin to mend the company's brittle image after weeks of failed efforts, and perhaps limit the damage to wildlife and marine life from reaching catastrophic levels. 
 A failure could mean several months more of leaking oil, devastating economic and environmental impacts across the gulf region, and mounting financial liabilities for the company. BP has already spent an estimated $760 million in fighting the spill, and two relief wells it is drilling as a last resort to seal the well may not be completed until August.
 Officials planned to begin the procedure Wednesday morning, and they said it could take from 12 hours to a few days to determine whether the operation is successful. Either way, President Obama will return to Louisiana on Friday to survey the spill's damage, the White House said. 
 On Thursday, President Obama will call for tougher safety requirements for offshore oil drilling and will likely announce a more rigorous inspections regimen for such operations, administration officials said.
 Mr. Obama's announcement is expected to come after he receives a report from the Interior Department.
 The Interior Department is preparing more stringent regulations governing safety and environmental practices, replacing a system of largely self-regulation by the oil companies. Drilling companies objected to the new rules, saying they were overly prescriptive and would be costly to comply with. 
 The rules were moving slowly before the spill, but a senior interior department official said they would be accelerated. On Tuesday, engineers guided submarine robots through diagnostic tests in preparation for the top kill, a maneuver in which tubes will inject thousands of pounds of heavy drilling fluids into a five-story-tall stack of pipes to clog the well. A 30,000-horsepower engine on a ship floating above the well will shoot the liquids, known in the oil business as drilling mud.
 The technique has been used successfully for other spills, notably for stopping the oil flooding out of Kuwaiti oil wells sabotaged by the Iraqi army at the end of the first Persian Gulf war.
 Several veterans of that operation are orchestrating technicians in the Gulf of Mexico. To lead the effort, BP has brought in Mark Mazzella, its top well-control expert, who was mentored by Bobby Joe Cudd, a legendary Oklahoma well firefighter.
 But at a mile below the gulf surface, the pressures of the surging oil and gas may be too much for the drilling fluids to counteract and reverse, BP officials warned.
 ''It has been done successfully in the past, but it hasn't been done at this depth,'' said Kent Wells, BP's senior vice president for exploration and production. ''We always have to be careful about setting expectations.''
 BP said in a statement that the top kill could be combined with a procedure known as a junk shot, in which materials like golf balls and pieces of rubber are injected into the blowout preventer to bridge gaps in the rams and stop or sharply reduce the flow of oil. 
 BP officials said if the flow of oil can be stopped, concrete will be poured into the well and the old, leaky blowout preventer, the stack of pipes above the well that failed to control the blowout, might be replaced with a new one as an added safety measure. The officials said the well would never be used for production purposes.
 Mr. Wells said that if the top kill fails, the next option would be to place a containment dome over the well. This approach was tried three weeks ago, but an icy slush of gas and water clogged the dome. Officials said a different approach might avoid that problem.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bags of oil collected from the beach awaited pickup Tuesday at Elmer's Island, La. Cleanup crews scrubbed the beach for days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL FIELD CHEMICALS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); ARMIES (69%); ROBOTICS (62%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



669 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: BP's Ties To Agency Are Long And Complex

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three years ago, the national laboratory then headed by Steven Chu received the bulk of a $500 million grant from the British oil giant BP to develop alternative energy sources through a new Energy Biosciences Institute. 
 Dr. Chu received the grant from BP's chief scientist at the time, Steven E. Koonin, a fellow theoretical physicist whom Dr. Chu jocularly described as ''my twin brother.'' Dr. Koonin had selected the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, over other universities in the United States and Britain in part because of Dr. Chu's pioneering work in alternative fuels. 
 Today, Dr. Chu is President Obama's energy secretary, and he spent Tuesday in Houston working with BP officials to try to find a way to stop the unabated flow of oil from a ruptured well a mile beneath the Gulf of Mexico.
 Dr. Koonin, who followed Dr. Chu to the Energy Department and now serves as under secretary of energy for science, is recused from all matters relating to the disaster because of his past ties to BP, said Stephanie Mueller, an Energy Department spokeswoman. 
 Dr. Chu, she said, ''has never had a financial interest in BP.''
 Ms. Mueller added, ''No one in their right mind would suggest that Dr. Chu is beholden to oil companies, especially since he's spent the past decade working to cut America's dependence on oil and move us toward a clean-energy economy.''
 The relationships among Dr. Chu, Dr. Koonin and BP illustrate the complexity of the ties between the company and the government now playing out along the Gulf Coast as they struggle to cope with one of the nation's worst environmental disasters. Just as the Pentagon and military contractors develop symbiotic business, technical and political interdependencies, the government in this case needs BP's offshore drilling technology and well-control equipment; the company needs the government's logistical and scientific expertise, including that of Dr. Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist.
 Some critics say the Obama administration has relied too heavily on BP's assessment of the blowout and its solutions for addressing it. But government officials say that BP is legally responsible for plugging the well and cleaning up the oil. And they acknowledge that government lacks the know-how to deal with the problem on its own.
 While there is no evidence that Dr. Chu or Dr. Koonin have represented BP's viewpoints in internal deliberations or sought to influence administration policy in a way that would benefit BP, the mere fact of their shared history brought expressions of concern from environmentalists and other critics of the White House's response to the spill.
 ''The fact that Steven Chu selected Steve Koonin, BP's chief scientist, to be his under secretary could predispose them to think that they could maybe negotiate with BP, could be more like partners regarding the oil cleanup,'' said Jennifer Washburn, the author of a coming report by the Center for American Progress called ''Big Oil Goes to College,'' which examines the BP-Berkeley venture. ''It makes it more likely for them to see BP as a legitimate partner in handling the cleanup operation. 
 ''Unfortunately,'' Ms. Washburn added, ''what people are questioning, with good reason, is whether the government has been too soft on BP.''
 Added John M. Simpson of Consumer Watchdog: ''From what I've seen, the Energy Department's response has been less than rapid to this oil spill. This whole thing just underscores that corporate interests have created, over time, these relationships that give them unfair access to policy makers.''
 Ms. Mueller, the Energy Department spokeswoman, said that the accusation that the agency reacted slowly to the spill was unfair, and that 150 people at national laboratories had been working on it.
 Public anger is mounting at both BP, which says it will try again on Wednesday to plug the spill using a method called top kill, and at Mr. Obama, who announced a major expansion of offshore oil drilling in March before first tending to what Mr. Obama himself described two weeks ago as an often cozy relationship between government regulators and oil companies.
 On Monday, BP announced another $500 million grant, this one to study the impact of the spill on the marine and coastal environment, with the first award to go to Louisiana State University. An independent panel will decide which institutions will receive the rest of the money, the company said in a news release.
 A White House official said Tuesday that the Energy Department ''doesn't have jurisdiction over the oil spill.'' Dr. Chu -- who, according to an Energy Department news release was in Houston on Tuesday ''to continue engagement on strategies to stop the oil spill'' -- is ''just volunteering because he's one of the most brilliant scientists around,'' the official said. Dr. Chu canceled a trip to China in order to deal with the crisis, the Energy Department said.
 On May 12, Mr. Obama sent Dr. Chu to BP's command center in Houston to meet with top engineers and scientists. After meeting with BP, Dr. Chu told reporters that he believed that ''things are looking up,'' and that he felt ''more comfortable than I was a week ago'' with progress toward containment. Along with Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, whose department has jurisdiction over the spill, Dr. Chu appeared beside Mr. Obama in the Rose Garden the next day as Mr. Obama angrily assailed the three companies involved in the oil spill.
 No one has accused Dr. Chu or Dr. Koonin of direct conflict of interest or questioned their scientific credentials. Before taking over the Lawrence Berkeley laboratory, which is supported by the Department of Energy, in 2004, Dr. Chu had been chairman of the physics department at Stanford University and won the 1997 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work with laser-cooled atoms.
 Dr. Koonin was a physics professor at the California Institute of Technology for nearly three decades and served from 1995 to 2004 as Caltech's provost. He was hired by BP in 2004 as its chief scientist, responsible for long-range planning for the company's energy portfolio, as the company likes to say, beyond petroleum. In his financial disclosure form submitted for his government post, he said that he had tens of thousands of unvested BP shares and options and that he was working out a fair value for them with the company.
 The BP-Berkeley project led to protests on the Berkeley campus when it was unveiled in 2007, as student groups and some professors expressed fears that the alliance could harm the university's reputation for academic integrity. Dr. Chu's ''name recognition and his backing'' of the project helped to ease some of those fears, said Ms. Washburn, an expert in university-industry relations and a fellow at New York University. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Before they joined the Department of Energy, Steven Chu, left, and Steven E. Koonin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE McCONNELL/U.C. BERKELEY)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); PHYSICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (96%); BP (LSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (93%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



670 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Building a Tower of Luxury Apartments in Midtown as Brokers Cross Their Fingers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Gary Barnett, one of New York City's most prolific developers, is about to start construction of a $1.3 billion skyscraper on 57th Street that will overtake Trump World Tower as the tallest residential building in the city.
 The tower, designed by the French architect Christian de Portzamparc, will rise 1,005 feet above 57th Street east of Seventh Avenue, feature striking views of Central Park and house what Mr. Barnett hopes will be 136 of the most expensive and luxurious apartments in the city. A 210-room Park Hyatt hotel is to occupy the first 20 floors, hotel analysts say.
 ''We're going vertical in the next three weeks,'' said Mr. Barnett, chief executive of Extell Development. Sounding a little like the developer he is one-upping, he said, ''We think it'll be the nicest project ever built in New York.''
 The project is the first major construction start in New York since the fall of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, and it is an ambitious, even risky undertaking. Unemployment still hovers at 10 percent in the city, which has only just begun to gain back some of the 150,000 jobs lost during the recession. Not so long ago, the real estate industry was right behind Wall Street and the nation's automakers in crying for a federal bailout. 
 But Mr. Barnett and other real estate executives now say they are seeing signs of life, despite a sluggish economy, fears that the European debt crisis will drag down the stock market and a list of stalled residential projects in New York that runs 500 buildings long.
 Apartment prices and office rents have bottomed out, and landlords are having to offer fewer concessions, real estate executives say. Foreign investors are back, and wealthy people are buying property again. Tourists continue to pour into the city. Retailing is relatively strong, and hotel occupancy and rates are picking up.
 Hersha Hospitality Trust has bought four Manhattan hotels since January for $200 million. In recent months, SL Green, the city's biggest commercial landlord, bought two office towers for a total of more than $500 million. And three developers are vying for a minority stake in 1 World Trade Center, which, upon its completion (scheduled for 2013), will be the city's tallest skyscraper. 
 All these tentative signs of recovery could be extinguished by another downturn. But many are poised like sprinters for the starting gun on the next real estate bull market. 
 ''There's a lot more activity,'' said Stephen M. Ross, chief executive of Related Companies, a prominent developer. ''It's not doom and gloom anymore.''
 Mr. Barnett said his project would be completed in 2013, in time for what he expects will be a booming market. The foundation for his tower, which will stand opposite Carnegie Hall and be called Carnegie 57, is complete.
 With banks still largely unwilling to lend money for large projects, Mr. Barnett went to Abu Dhabi for partners and financing. The Tasameem Real Estate Company, controlled by the government, bought a stake in the project two years ago. More recently, a related company, Aabar Investment, agreed to provide financing.
 By the time the tower opens, Mr. Barnett said, there should be a ''dearth'' of spacious ultraluxury condominiums. It will loom nearly 500 feet over the Essex House and its rooftop neon sign, giving residents panoramic views. 
 He said the apartments should command prices comparable to or better than those at 15 Central Park West, a celebrity magnet that has attracted the likes of Sting and Alex Rodriguez and where apartments sell for $6,500 a square foot and more. 
 ''If you can find the money, it's a great time to be in development,'' Mr. Barnett said. ''We're not back to the highs of 2007 yet, but we see things picking up substantially.''
 Currently, Extell is building or completing five residential buildings on the West and East Sides with a total of 924 apartments. The company also plans to build a 54-story, 487-room hotel on West 45th Street, near Avenue of the Americas, but his 34-story Gem Tower, which is to house dealers in the Diamond District, has come to a temporary halt. 
 Jonathan J. Miller, president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, called Mr. Barnett's latest project ''pretty gutsy.'' Apartment prices leveled off last year, after falling by 25 percent to 30 percent, he said. The anemic market for the highest priced units has recently awakened, but mainly because those units have become more affordable. That could make a tall order out of Mr. Barnett's goal. 
 Three years from now, Mr. Miller said, developers and landlords may still be wrestling with an estimated 20,000 rental apartments and condominiums in buildings where construction or sales stopped in the past two years.
 ''I think things will be better than they are now,'' he said, ''but I don't know how much better. I don't think we're in recovery mode.''
 Still, many brokers and developers take heart from the fact that apartment buyers are back in the market. Pam Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, said the number of apartments under contract jumped 81 percent in the first quarter of this year, compared with the same period in 2009; it was lower, however, than during the peak in 2007. 
 In an industry where many believe that perception is reality, landlords, developers and real estate investors are now ''up-talking'' a market that they had been ''down-talking'' a year ago, as if a turnaround could be prompted by sheer force of will.
 ''There's a palpable optimism in the market right now,'' said Robert A. Knakal of Massey Knakal Realty Services, a real estate sales broker.
 No private developer is going to start building a speculative office tower anytime soon, but landlords and developers say the Midtown market is on the verge of a turnaround, even though the office vacancy rate is a daunting 14 percent. Effective rents, which had fallen by as much as 45 percent, are now inching upward, at least for first-class space, and concessions are shrinking.
 Also, there are few large blocks of vacant space available in Midtown. And, brokers say, Morgan Stanley, UBS, Bank of New York Mellon and Societe Generale are each looking for at least 400,000 square feet. This is interpreted as a sign of confidence in the future, since banks and other corporations were fearful of making commitments a year ago.
 ''We believe that the New York City commercial office market is finally turning the corner after a few difficult years,'' Marc Holliday, chief executive of SL Green, said this month after the company added two office buildings to its portfolio.
 Mr. Barnett said nothing short of a catastrophe would stop his project. ''We believe in New York City,'' he said. ''People are always going to want to live here.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Better Times?: After a rough couple of years, indicators of the New York City real estate market are showing signs of leveling off or improving. (Sources: Miller Samuel Inc.
PKF Consulting
 Cushman & Wakefield) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); CORPORATE DEBT (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); EURO CRISIS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); HERSHA HOSPITALITY TRUST (52%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (50%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (57%); HT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



671 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: New Injection Of Tension Further Frays 2 Koreas' Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and CHOE SANG-HUN; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea. Mark Landler contributed reporting from Beijing.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- North and South Korea accelerated their diplomatic confrontation on Tuesday over the recent sinking of a South Korean warship, with the South saying it would redesignate the North its ''archenemy'' and North Korea severing almost all of its remaining ties to its far wealthier neighbor. 
 American officials were cautious in their public statements, eager to avoid giving the North reason for further escalation. Military officials said no additional American combat forces, warships or aircraft had moved into the region -- a standard practice in many past crises, including one in 2003. Officials watching activity on the ground through satellite photographs said there was no ''unusual'' activity at North Korea's main nuclear test site. 
 Both South Korea and the United States have blamed North Korea for the sinking of the ship, which they say was hit by a torpedo. 
 The biggest concern within the Obama administration is that the diplomatic skirmishing between the North and South that has followed could spill, by design or accident, into an armed confrontation. The confrontation already appears to be the closest the two countries have come to open hostilities since 1994, when the North threatened to turn Seoul into a ''sea of fire'' if its nuclear violations were referred to the United Nations for sanctions. South Korea and the United States have said they will bring the issue of the sinking, which killed 46 sailors, to the Security Council for unspecified action.
 Whether significant new sanctions are applied depends on China's leaders, who were conspicuously silent about tough measures against the North during Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's visit to Beijing this week. So far China has said nothing about the evidence that North Korea was responsible for the sinking; that evidence was collected by South Korea and vetted by inspectors from several other countries.
 The designation of ''archenemy,'' announced by President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, formalized the obvious, but it was a complete break from the ''sunshine policy'' of his two predecessors, Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun. ''In the past 10 years, we have failed to establish the concept of principal enemy,'' Mr. Lee told a meeting of senior advisers on Tuesday. ''We have ignored the very danger under our feet.'' 
 The North responded by saying it would terminate all communications with the South while Mr. Lee, a conservative, was in office, and stop the South's jets from using its airspace.
 But both countries let their biggest venture, the joint Kaesong industrial park, remain open, though its operations are expected to be crippled. Neither country seemed to take the final step, at least yet, of dismantling the last sign of progress they made in improving relations over the past decade, or losing the tens of thousands of jobs the industrial park creates. 
 On Wednesday, the North Korean military threatened to ''completely block South Korean personnel and vehicles'' from Kaesong if the South resumes its psychological warfare. But the South Korean government said that the North had used a military tie line to approve the entry of hundreds of workers from the South to work their regular shifts at the industrial complex.
 And the North, continuing its sharp language, warned that it would attack and destroy the propaganda loudspeakers to be put up along the border by the South, calling them a ''military provocation.''
 While there is a numbing amount of ritual threats and counterthreats involved in any crisis with North Korea, there are several big differences between the current one and other confrontations over the past 20 years. 
 This one takes place as North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, tries to build up the military credentials of one of his sons to extend the family dynasty in the country to a third generation. That succession plan, which remains murky even for American intelligence agencies, could change the dynamic, and give Mr. Kim an interest in escalating the confrontation. 
 This is also the first crisis since North Korea conducted two nuclear tests -- one in 2006, another just months after President Obama was inaugurated in 2009. The North is now believed to have fuel for at least eight weapons, and that may give the country's military leadership greater confidence that the United States and South Korea will not risk military retaliation, even if the confrontation escalates.
 ''We don't think this is over, and there are plenty of reasons to believe that this is just an opening salvo by Kim Jong-il,'' one senior American official said. 
 Thomas Hubbard, the American ambassador in Seoul during the 2003 nuclear crisis, when the North threw out international inspectors and began harvesting the nuclear fuel, said: ''This is a profoundly different kind of attack on South Korea than we've seen in recent times. It is a military attack on a military target -- a violation of the armistice -- rather than an act of terrorism.'' 
 And North Korea's growing nuclear capacity ''may explain why they felt emboldened to carry out an attack as brazen as this,'' he said. 
 In that regard, it poses a challenge to the Obama administration, just as Mr. Obama is staking much of his legacy on convincing countries that nuclear weapons constrain their options, rather than making them more powerful. Mr. Kim clearly subscribes to a different theory. One early lesson that may emerge from the West's cautious response to the sinking of the South's ship may well be that he calculated correctly that what he calls his ''nuclear deterrent'' could help keep him, and his family, in power.
 Even before the North made real progress on its nuclear program, however, the South was hesitant to respond too strongly to Pyongyang's provocations for fear it could ravage Seoul with conventional weapons. 
 So far the Obama administration has portrayed itself as willing to let South Korea take the lead, befitting its role as one of the world's largest economies. In truth, South Korean and American policy makers appear in near-hourly contact, and Mrs. Clinton traveled to Seoul on Wednesday.
 ''Right now our strategy is being driven by alliance considerations and domestic politics,'' said Joel Wit, who worked on North Korean issues for several previous administrations, co-authored a study of the 1994 crisis and now runs a Web site called ''38North'' on Korean issues. ''We've ceded the initiatives to the North Koreans,'' he said. 
 If Kim Jong-il is seeking to bolster the credentials of his youngest son, Kim Jong-un, it could explain reports in Seoul that Mr. Kim ordered his military and reserve forces to be ready for war, an organization of North Korean defectors said on Tuesday.
 Last Thursday, when the South formally accused the North of torpedoing its ship, a senior North Korean general relayed Mr. Kim's order through a broadcast to intercoms fitted in most North Korean homes, said North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity, a Web site based in Seoul and run by North Korean defectors with contacts in the North. 
 The reports of the alert status helped cause the main stock index in Seoul to drop more than three percentage points in early trading. The South Korean currency also weakened sharply. 
 On Monday evening, South Korea resumed its ''Voice of Freedom'' radio broadcasts directed at the North Korean people. It boasted of the South's economic prosperity and belittled the North Korean government for failing to feed its people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



672 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Political Debate of 2010 Is Still Trapped In the Cultural Divide of the 1960s

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
You would not think Richard Blumenthal and Rand Paul would have anything in common, aside from the fact that they are both running for Senate. 
 Mr. Blumenthal, the Democratic attorney general of Connecticut, is a respected, if somewhat colorless career public servant. Mr. Paul, a Kentucky eye doctor and a Republican, is a doctrinaire libertarian like his father, Ron Paul, the onetime presidential candidate. But last week, both men found themselves unexpectedly sucked into the vortex that pulls us inexorably back to the 1960s.
 This wrinkle in the political space-time continuum was supposed to have been smoothed out, of course. Barack Obama based his presidential campaign on the notion that the nation needed to step past the cultural chasm of an earlier era, and younger Americans, in particular, endorsed that vision. And yet here we are two years later, arguing over Vietnam and segregation, our politics transformed yet again into a revival of ''Hair,'' except perhaps that it is not entertaining and never seems to end. (Actually, it is exactly like ''Hair.'') 
 In both cases, the trite and simplistic debate seems mismatched to the more complex conversations that most Americans are actually trying to have.
 Mr. Blumenthal's troubles started when The New York Times reported that he had a pattern of implying (or stating outright) that he had served in Vietnam when he had not. There is a legitimate question of character here, to be sure; politicians ought not to embellish, and Mr. Blumenthal twice apologized. But the controversy, stoked by his Republican opponent, has as much to do with all the 40-year-old emotions around draft boards and deferrals, the lingering bitterness among those who served and the torturous guilt among those who did not, as it does with the straight-up issue of veracity.
 This is all well-trod ground for voters who can easily recall the allegations over Bill Clinton and his draft letter, John Kerry and his Swift boat, George W. Bush and his missing time in the National Guard. But in a country where no one under 50 has ever seen a draft notice, it is increasingly irrelevant; to those Americans, we might as well be having an argument over who sunk the Maine. 
 In the era of the all-volunteer military, there is much less of a class or ideological divide in America between those who honor service and those who might shun it. (Consider that the loudest proponent of a draft now is Charles B. Rangel, the liberal congressman from New York.) Today's more pressing debates are about how best to use the military in fighting unconventional wars and whether gay Americans should be allowed to serve openly, about the length of a deployment and the quality of body armor and benefits. 
 Mr. Paul, meanwhile, found himself hurtling into the past when, responding to questions from Rachel Maddow on MSNBC, he expressed philosophical reservations about the 1964 Civil Rights Act, specifically the provision that forced private businesses to integrate. (Later, he amended that position, saying he would have supported the act anyway.) 
 The ensuing cries of racism probably made perfect sense to those who lived through the '60s. After all, if a white Southerner in 1964 opposed integration on constitutional grounds, odds were pretty good that bigotry was a motivating factor. And yet the national conversation around racism and its remedies today is considerably more nuanced than it was 50 years ago -- or even 10 years ago.
 Now Tiger Woods plays annually at Augusta, historically an all-white club. The African-American president of the United States has said that his own relatively privileged daughters should not benefit from affirmative action programs when applying to college. Americans the president's age and younger are inclined to assume that one can question the responsibilities of government and private entities when it comes to race without necessarily being dismissed as a racist -- even if it does make them, as in the case of Mr. Paul, something of an ideological outlier. 
 Why then, to quote the ubiquitous Bono, is our political debate so stuck in a moment it cannot get out of? In part, it is probably because so many of the Americans most engaged in politics -- as well as those who run campaigns and comment endlessly on them -- are old enough to remember Altamont. It is your classic self-fulfilling prophecy: the more the '60s generation dominates the political discourse, the less that discourse engages younger voters, and the longer the boomers hold sway over our politics. 
 On a deeper level, though, this all probably has as much to do with our basic human tendency toward moral clarity. As much as conservatives may view the decade as the crucible of moral relativism and the beginning of a breakdown in established social order, there remains something powerfully attractive about the binary, simplistic nature of it all, the idea that one could easily distinguish whether he was for war or against, in favor of equality or opposed. 
 By contrast, war today seems more a question of degrees and limits, while equality seems less about the laws of the land than about disparities in economic and educational opportunities that are subtler and harder to address. The choices of our moment are not nearly so neat or so satisfying as they were a generation ago, which makes them less useful as a basis for one's political identity, and harder to encapsulate in some 30-second spot or prime-time rant.
 In a sense, the discussion of the past week underscores Mr. Obama's continuing challenge as well. Implicit in the president's vow to move us beyond the obsolescence of '60s politics was the idea that he would replace it with something else, that he would reframe the debate of the 21st century in a way that would make our choices as a society seem clearer and more interconnected.
 He hasn't, or at least not to this point. And without that modern framework there is only an absence, the familiar vortex that keeps pulling us back to things we had hoped to leave behind. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SERVICE: Marines in Vietnam in 1967. The war has been part of the political discourse for decades, including this year in Connecticut, where Attorney General Richard Blumenthal's characterization of his military record has become an issue in the Senate race. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SIT-INS: College students staged a protest in 1960 at an all-white lunch counter in Greensboro, N.C. Rand Paul's recent comments about the 1964 Civil Rights Act and its integration requirement for private businesses stirred controversy in Kentucky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK MOEBES/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (91%); RAND PAUL (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RON PAUL (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



673 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Germany Considers Wider Ban on Risky Trades

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- A week after rattling global bourses and annoying allies with a unilateral ban on some forms of financial market speculation, Germany went much further Tuesday, proposing a law that would greatly broaden restrictions on several instruments that investors use to bet against stocks, bonds and currencies.
 Despite criticism that market regulation will be toothless unless it is enacted globally, the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, on Tuesday proposed extending a ban on what the draft legislation called ''certain transactions that amplify the crisis.'' 
 There is broad support for such measures among leaders on both sides of the Atlantic, and some of the proposed rules are already in effect in the United States. Other European nations, however, have complained about Germany's decision to act alone.
 ''What the Germans are doing would be all the more effective if it were done at a coordinated European level,'' Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Michel Barnier, the European Union internal markets commissioner, said Tuesday.
 The draft law, released Tuesday by the German Finance Ministry, expands a ban on so-called naked short-selling to all stocks that have their primary listing in Germany, as well as on government bonds issued by euro countries.
 The law, which will take at least until September to win passage in Parliament, would also ban naked short-selling of the euro, and enshrine a ban on use of so-called credit default swaps to bet against European government bonds.
 U.S. regulators have effectively banned naked short-selling of stocks since 2005. The practice involves a short-sale, or bet against a stock, without first holding shares of the security.
 All the measures aim to curtail investors who are perceived as little more than gamblers, as opposed to companies who use financial instruments to protect themselves against currency swings or other risk.
 ''Turbulence in the markets for European Union government bonds and the volatility of the euro have reached a new dimension,'' the text of the legislation said. ''Certain transactions that threaten the stability of financial markets should be forbidden.''
 Mr. Schauble has expressed frustration that financial market regulation is moving too slowly, and said that he hoped other countries would follow Germany's lead.
 ''Politicians believe they need to show some activism,'' said a top manager at an investment bank in Germany, who did not want to be quoted because he often meets with government officials.
 The deputy finance minister, Jorg Asmussen, told the CNBC financial network on Friday that Germany preferred to work with its European partners and the Group of 20 nations, but would go it alone if need be.
 ''We are willing to act and if necessary in an extreme case even on a national basis, but that is not the preferred way forward,'' Mr. Asmussen said.
 A spokesman for Mr. Schauble said that Germany informed its E.U. partners of the proposed legislation and sent them copies of the draft law Monday or Tuesday.
 A similar text had been part of an earlier, more comprehensive bill but was made a separate measure to speed passage, said the spokesman, who under ministry rules could not be quoted by name.
 The ministry has been discussing the measures with banks for weeks, the spokesman said. On Tuesday the ministry sent a letter to financial institutions and industry groups inviting them to comment on the proposals.
 All the banned transactions involve methods of betting against companies, bonds or currencies without having an underlying economic interest in the security.
 In ordinary short-selling, investors sell, or short, borrowed shares of a security in a bet that the price will fall and that they can then buy them back at a lower price, pocketing the difference as profit.
 In naked short-selling, investors never hold the security; they promise to deliver it at a certain price, hoping that the security will fall and they can pocket the difference between the agreed price and the lower market price.
 The law would also ban some trading in credit default swaps, or C.D.S.'s, a form of insurance against the risk that a bond issuer will be unable to repay the debt. The ban would apply to C.D.S.'s on debt of countries in the euro area, in cases where the investors did not own the underlying debt.
 Buying C.D.S.'s without owning the underlying debt has been likened to buying fire insurance on a neighbor's house, and has been blamed for exaggerating Europe's sovereign debt crisis.
 Last week, the German financial market regulator banned naked short-selling of the stocks of 10 of the country's largest financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank and the insurer Allianz.
 Investors took that ban as a further sign that European countries were reacting to the sovereign debt crisis in a populist, uncoordinated way. Analysts also questioned the effectiveness of a ban in Germany, since even German banks do most of their trading in London.
 Though Germany has been criticized for acting alone, political leaders and central bankers in both the United States and Europe share concern that some forms of trading serve no broad economic purpose and are little more than a form of gambling that can distort financial markets.
 Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, has criticized investors who buy C.D.S., then use short-selling to try to drive down the price of the underlying bond.''By first buying the credit default swaps and then trying to affect market sentiment by going short on the underlying bond, investors can make large profits without a change in the fundamental value of the reference entity and, worse, to its detriment,'' Mr. Trichet said at a speech in Lisbon this month.But Mr. Trichet has also said many times that regulation must be coordinated among the G-20 nations.
 The European Commission, the executive arm of the Union, will issue proposals on short-selling for discussion by the financial services industry and by governments in the next two weeks, said Ms. Hughes, the spokeswoman for the internal markets commissioner.
 She said the commission then would aim to make formal proposals for legislation on short-selling by October, with a view to having legislation in force by January 2013.
 The view of regulators in Brussels, like Mr. Barnier, was that naked short-selling could play an advantageous role in the functioning of financial markets by increasing liquidity, said Ms. Hughes.
 But she said regulators like Mr. Barnier equally recognized that such practices could worsen crises by dramatically amplifying potentially damaging market movements.
 At certain times it could ''make complete sense'' to suspend practices like naked short-selling, Ms. Hughes said. But regulators must make a distinction between ''crisis periods and noncrisis periods,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The finance ministers Wolfgang Schauble of Germany and Christine Lagarde of France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS LENOIR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BONDS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (76%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



674 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Russia Takes a Big Step Into Technology

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- A group of Silicon Valley venture capitalists who bet on companies like Skype and Facebook are taking a look at another long-shot proposition -- that Russia can diversify its economy away from oil.
 The Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, has elevated diversification to a centerpiece of his economic policy and is building a sprawling technology park outside Moscow referred to as Russia's Silicon Valley.
 The American venture capitalists' visit to Russia on Tuesday offered a first look at how heavyweights in technology investing viewed this ambitious project. 
 At a meeting with the investors, Mr. Medvedev spoke of his commitment to commercializing Russia's scientific heritage, but acknowledged it would not be easy.
 Russia's boom-and-bust economy now swings wildly with the price of commodities like oil and metals, which make up 80 percent of the country's exports.
 Government advisers have said that a lesson of the most recent crash was the urgency of diversification, despite rebounding commodity prices, as an inoculation against the next downturn.
 Drew J. Guff, managing director of Siguler & Guff, an $8 billion venture capital fund, said he had committed a $250 million investment to a data center in Russia, encouraged by Kremlin support for information technology as symbolized by the new science park, also sometimes called Inograd, Russian for Innovation City.
 ''We're committed to Inograd and a new, technological Russia,'' Mr. Guff told Mr. Medvedev at the meeting. ''We believe our investors are satisfied investors.''
 A Russian state-backed fund for investment in nanotechnology, Rusnano, organized the trip with AmBar, a trade group for Russian-speaking professionals in the San Francisco Bay Area. Rusnano is looking for co-investors in a start-up created to commercialize Russian technological advances that are languishing at scientific institutes or university laboratories because the country has never had venture capital investors to bring them to market.
 Russia is the world's largest energy-exporting country and so does not lack capital for investment in business. The sovereign wealth funds are bulging. Instead, the strategy has been to attract expertise in incubating high-technology ventures, rather than simply money.
 Rusnano's director, Anatoly Chubais, one of the architects of Russia's immediate post-Soviet privatization, who has now joined the effort to diversify, said in a statement that the goal of the visit was to ''bring together the country's most promising innovative projects with the world's smartest money.''
 The venture fund investors met earlier Tuesday with Viktor Vekselberg, the commercial director of the project to build the new scientific city. He had asked their views on the ambitious undertaking.
 The technology city should become a stimulus for countrywide reforms to ease the emergence of small and medium businesses, including technology companies, Mr. Guff said he told the Russians, and not a goal in itself.
 Still, it could become a signal of Russian commitment to high technology development, he said, and might draw back to Russia some of the scientists and programmers who abandoned the country in the post-Soviet brain drain. ''Inograd is not a physical location but something virtual,'' he said.
 David Kronfeld, the chairman of JK&B Capital, praised the government's focus on nanotechnology, intended to leapfrog the semiconductor technology that Russia was far behind in anyway. But he added that Russia's grim reputation among American investors would keep many away for now.
 Mr. Medvedev said he was aware of investors' negative mood toward Russia. The government was trying to improve policy, he said. But if those gathered at the table conveyed Russia's commitment to tech development, he said, the image might change. ''Businessmen trust their colleagues,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); METALS MARKETS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (70%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



675 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Anger Rises as the Oil Keeps Spewing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Oil Hits Home, Spreading Arc of Frustration'' (front page, May 25):
 As the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico unfolds daily, the country and the world look on, impotent to deal with the situation. We learn daily also how difficult the technological efforts to contain this blowout are and how little effective regulation was in place to forestall such a disaster.
 What must be done now to prevent future disasters is to stop all current drilling in the gulf until each of the roughly 3,500 operating rigs there is inspected by an independent commission appointed by the president. Inspections would include perusal of all records, permits and safety test results, previous and current, and current demonstrations of safety installations. 
 Unless all rigs can be shown to be technically safe to operate now, they should be constrained from posing the risk that the BP rig has brought to reality.
 Hobart W. Kraner Murrells Inlet, S.C., May 25, 2010
 The writer is a retired physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory. 
 To the Editor:
 Your continuing coverage of the BP spill makes several points clear.
 BP is advised by professionals from throughout the industry, and it is doing all that can be done to seal the well.
 BP was not prepared to mitigate a spill or to supervise a coastal cleanup.
 The federal and state governments have experience with natural disasters along the Gulf Coast, and they should be in charge of containing the oil and addressing the long-term aftermath. The cost should be borne by BP and its partners in the well.
 James S. Jackson Portland, Ore., May 25, 2010
 The writer worked for 20 years as a petroleum geologist.
 To the Editor:
 The environmental and economic damage from the Deepwater Horizon disaster will surely be staggering. But equally awful will be the impact on our energy future. Several of the world's ''super giant'' oil fields are in permanent and steep decline. The oil industry had thought that deepwater drilling would offset the production loss, something inconceivable now.
 The unfolding catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico plainly demonstrates the limits of technology and the inevitability of human error. This calamity will be remembered as a historical turning point, the beginning of the end of cheap abundant energy.
 Deepwater drilling will never be the panacea the industry had hoped, and we Americans will look back wistfully, finally understanding that energy is a blessing and not an entitlement.
 Christopher Eiben Cleveland, May 24, 2010
 The writer is a drilling consultant. 
 To the Editor:
 I dismissed President Obama's critics when they first started comparing his response to BP's oil spill to President Bush's response to Hurricane Katrina. After all, Mr. Bush had several days to prepare for the hurricane, a fact that clearly distinguishes the current catastrophe unfolding before our eyes.
 Since then, however, Mr. Obama has seemingly set out to prove his critics right. The president's response lacks any sense of urgency.
 After a month of BP's underestimation of the scope of the spill (''The Measure of a Disaster,'' by Ian R. MacDonald, John Amos, Timothy Crone and Steve Wereley, Op-Ed, May 22), Mr. Obama finally set up a commission to investigate what went wrong. A commission should have been set up weeks ago.
 With each passing day, tens of thousands of barrels of oil continue to contaminate the Gulf of Mexico, and the president doesn't seem to be taking seriously enough the long-term damage that is being unleashed on our environment, our economy and his presidency.
 Ryan Talbott Portland, Ore., May 24, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Louisiana Officials Threaten Action if Spill Response Proves Inadequate'' (news article, May 24):
 The frustration of Louisiana officials as crude oil despoils their coast is understandable, but their demands for a more effective response are futile. BP and the government agencies are doing the best they can, with virtually all available response assets.
 Major spills are rare, but, as is well known in government and industry, once oil is in the water, spill responders do very well to remove or recover even 15 percent. Dispersants ''treat'' a larger percentage of the oil, but transfer it from the surface into the water column rather than removing it, with effects that we don't yet fully understand.
 Our nation, and the gulf states in particular, have made a bargain with the oil industry wherein we have accepted the risks of major spills for the benefits of oil and petrochemicals. The gulf blowout, the Massey Energy coal mine explosion in West Virginia and hundreds of other tragic accidents hold clear lessons: we must pay the price to ensure safe operations, even if high; and we must get to the serious business of minimizing our use of fossil fuels.
 Michael Dyer Essex, Mass., May 24, 2010
 The writer is a marine transportation engineer.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''More Than Just an Oil Spill,'' by Bob Herbert (column, May 22):
 Blaming ''the scandalous, rapacious greed of the oil industry'' for this catastrophe doesn't identify the real villains: ourselves, with our outsize energy demands for our busy, busy lives. Step by step we are trashing the planet to maintain our quality of life.
 Accidents like the BP oil spill and Chernobyl make headlines, while every day mountains and valleys are destroyed from West Virginia to Wyoming to reach coal; vast areas of Canada are laid waste to obtain oil from tar sands; and forests and groundwater supplies are threatened by hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas, while oceans and shorelines around the world are turned into dead zones by drilling for and transporting oil.
 We may point our fingers at the people who operate and regulate energy, but we must accept that ultimately the fingers point back at ourselves.
 Charles Day Philadelphia, May 23, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ZINA SAUNDERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WRITERS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); INSPECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); LAND RECLAMATION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



676 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (21) FIRST LIGHT: MONTAUK POINT LIGHTHOUSE Authorized by the Second Congress under President George Washington in 1792, the Montauk Point Lighthouse, above, was the first built in New York State, completed on Nov. 5, 1796. It also became the first beacon of light that welcomed thousands of immigrants to the New World. This documentary tells the story of the treacherous waters at the eastern tip of Long Island, the struggle of the architect John McComb Jr. to build the structure, and the wrecks of the Culloden, the Flying Cloud and the John Milton in the 18th and 19th centuries. 
 3 P.M. (Fox) THE DR. OZ SHOW Dr. Mehmet Oz presents a cheapskate's guide to living longer. 
 4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW Four women say they were child brides in the United States.
 6 P.M. (National Geographic) GEO BEE 2010 Young geography whizzes test their knowledge for scholarships of up to $25,000 in this competition broadcast live from the National Geographic Society headquarters in Washington. Alex Trebek hosts.
 8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL The series crowns a new idol from the two finalists, Crystal Bowersox and Lee DeWyze, and bids farewell to Simon Cowell, who is leaving the judges' table after nine seasons and, he told Oprah Winfrey last week, growing bored. (He also admitted that he has an ego problem.) The Top 12 contestants reunite for one last round; former winners like Carrie Underwood are also expected. And Paula Abdul will show up in honor of her old friend and sparring partner.
 8 P.M. (IFC) THE IFC MEDIA PROJECT PRESENTS: FEAR, WAR, GREED & DISASTER In ''Greed,'' the third episode in this four-part series, Charlie LeDuff, a former reporter for The New York Times, travels from his home in the crumbling city of Detroit to Wall Street and then to Washington as he tries to understand better how the financial industry played a role in the country's current decline.
 9 P.M. (CBS) CRIMINAL MINDSTim Curry, below, guest stars as a serial killer who is lured out of hiding when a series of rolling blackouts hit Los Angeles in this Season 5 cliffhanger. In the Season 6 finale of ''CSI: NY,'' at 10, Edward Furlong plays yet another serial killer who has decided to go after Danny (Carmine Giovinazzo) while he vacations with Lindsay (Anna Belknap) and their daughter.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) GROUND WAR This four-part series continues its examination of the technological advances that have defined ground warfare through history. Episode 3 explores artillery, from the ancient Greeks and the invention of gunpowder in China to the current crop of directed-energy weapons. The series concludes at 10 with a look at the ways in which armies have used or modified the terrain of battlefields to their advantage.
 10 P.M. (TLC) CELLBLOCK 6: FEMALE LOCK UP Eight women cope with incarceration in the Gwinnett County Jail in Georgia.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) TOP CHEF MASTERS The five remaining chefs are challenged to a game of ''name that ingredient'' before creating meals inspired by Greek gods.
 10:30 P.M. (Sundance) I LOVE YOUR WORK (2003) Gray Evans (Giovanni Ribisi), a movie star tired of all the attention, turns the tables and begins to stalk a couple of admirers in this film directed by Adam Goldberg. That idea ''has distinct promise,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''Too bad,'' she added, ''it's so hard to imagine Gray dredging up the requisite interest in another human being after he has wallowed so luxuriantly in the despair of the poor little rich boy.'' 
 11 P.M. (TV5Monde) PASSE-PASSE (2008) A stylish woman (Nathalie Baye) with an Hermes handbag stuffed with cash flags down an unemployed magician (Edouard Baer) and asks for a ride. She's on the run from an arms deal in which she acted as an intermediary between a French minister and North Korea. Turns out that the magician is on the lam as well. Tonie Marshall wrote and directed this screwball French comedy.
 11 P.M. (13) THE CHARLIE ROSE BRAIN SERIES Episode 8 continues the exploration of the ''emotional brain,'' this time focusing on aggression, violence and chronic anxiety and new therapies that may be used to treat post-traumatic stress and genetic anxiety disorders. The Nobel laureate Eric R. Kandel, a professor of biochemistry and biophysics at Columbia University, joins Mr. Rose as host. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (74%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); MURDER (65%); HOMICIDE (65%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); CLASSICS (60%); POWER FAILURES (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (55%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (54%); SIMON COWELL (52%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



677 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 FOR NEW PARLIAMENT,
 A First Day of Pageantry
 Queen Elizabeth II marked a watershed in her long reign when she formally opened a new session of Parliament and outlined the legislative program of Britain's first coalition government since Winston Churchill's national unity government in World War II. PAGE A8 
 JEWELERS ROBBED IN IRAQ
 A large group of gunmen, armed with rifles, grenades and bombs, staged a midday robbery of a strip of jewelry stores within sight of police and army checkpoints in Baghdad, killing at least 14 people, according to officials. PAGE A4
 National
 BIAS PAYOUTS COME TOO LATE 
 For Black Farmers
 Wrangling over the federal budget in Washington has delayed payouts from a $1.25 billion settlement to compensate black farmers who claimed that the Agriculture Department had discriminated against them in making loans. PAGE A14
 SCANDAL IN SOUTH CAROLINA
 State Representative Nikki Haley, who is running for the South Carolina governor's seat, has been hit by charges that she had an ''inappropriate physical relationship'' with a supporter. PAGE A14
 New York
 FORMER STATE SENATOR 
 Sentenced For Corruption
 Efrain Gonzalez Jr., a once-powerful Bronx politician convicted of corruption, was sentenced to seven years in prison by a federal judge who called his story ''an American tragedy.'' PAGE A22
 Business
 INVESTORS GET JITTERY 
 On a Global Scale
 As fears grow that Europe could face a full-blown financial crisis, potentially damaging the economy in the United States, investors are abandoning risky bets in the financial markets around the world and rushing for safety instead. PAGE B1
 FIXING A FINANCE BILL
 As the House and Senate begin merging their separate bills on financial regulation, they still have a chance to make some important improvements. David Leonhardt, Economic Scene. PAGE B1
 ELECTRIC CAR IS SOLD OUT
 The head of Nissan said the company had already received 19,000 orders in the United States and Japan for the electric car that it would start selling at year-end. PAGE B5
 Arts
 IN CLEVELAND, A FRENZY 
 To Prepare Antiquities 
 The Cleveland Museum of Art, home to a priceless collection of Classical and ancient art, is in the midst of one of the most complex and ambitious rebuilding programs of any art institution in the country. With the reopening of the antiquities galleries in June, three-quarters of the building will be back in use for showing art. PAGE C1
 Sports
 DOPING INQUIRY OF CYCLING MAY BE BROADENED
 Federal authorities investigating allegations that Lance Armstrong and other top cyclists engaged in doping are considering whether they can expand the investigation beyond traditional drug distribution charges to include charges of fraud and conspiracy, according to two people briefed on the investigation. PAGE B12
 Dining
 LINCOLN CENTER'S RESTAURANT,
 Still Lacking a Name
 The September opening of the new restaurant at Lincoln Center is just a few months away, and it is unfinished, mostly unstaffed, and still in need of a name. PAGE D1
 Review: Prime Meats D7
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A27
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); ROBBERY (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); JEWELRY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); JEWELRY STORES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); LITIGATION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); JUDGES (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); CYCLING (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (62%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II (73%); NIKKI HALEY (52%); LANCE ARMSTRONG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



678 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1938 words

HEADLINE: At Harvard, Kagan Aimed Sights Higher

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One Saturday afternoon in March 2003, Lawrence H. Summers invited Elena Kagan for a private chat in the library of Elmwood, the stately clapboard mansion he occupied as the president of Harvard. The two had been close colleagues, if not close friends, as top aides working for President Bill Clinton. But this was no social call.
 Mr. Summers, a brilliant but impatient economist with a bull-in-the-china-shop management style, was looking for a new law school dean. Ms. Kagan, a newly tenured professor, was thin on management experience, and her academic writings were relatively scant.
 But she was a faculty favorite -- her colleagues viewed her as a leader and consensus builder who held sway with the strong-willed university president. Mr. Summers, aware that she had her sights set even higher, accompanied his job offer with a hint of a warning. 
 ''I would say Elena's colleagues chose her as much as I did,'' he said in a recent interview, adding, ''I said to her: 'Elena, if you accept this job and then you are offered a position like Supreme Court justice or attorney general, I will congratulate you with all my heart and wish you well. But we need you to make a commitment to the law school for a few years before taking any other position.' ''
 Now Mr. Summers is President Obama's top economic adviser, and Ms. Kagan is the president's Supreme Court nominee. Her dealings with Mr. Summers -- she persuaded him to abandon an unpopular plan to move the law school, kept her distance when he faltered and made no bones about trying to succeed him when he was forced to resign as Harvard's president -- reveal a woman of intense ambition and deft political skills. Their relationship hints as well at Ms. Kagan's persuasiveness, and how she might operate on a divided Supreme Court, where persuasion often seems in short supply.
 ''He is not someone you can cajole in any way,'' Martha L. Minow, the current Harvard Law dean, said of Mr. Summers. ''It's the merits, evidence, substance. It's not about charm, it's not about small talk, it's 'Just the facts ma'am,' and build your case and be unbelievably fair-minded about the other case, because he is going to ask you about the other side.''
 In the days since Mr. Obama nominated her, much has been made of Ms. Kagan's tenure as dean, and her top-to-bottom transformation of Harvard Law School. Far less attention has been paid to how she climbed from visiting professor to possible successor to Mr. Summers, the result of relentless networking and a remarkable ability to navigate the treacherous waters of Harvard's internal politics.
 ''She is a strategic and deliberative thinker on all issues -- there was always a sense of 'Let me do my homework,' '' said one colleague, Prof. Charles J. Ogletree Jr. He recalled how, as dean, Ms. Kagan met with every member of the faculty. ''She was willing to work seven days a week, it wasn't just Monday through Friday, 10 to 5, it was whenever people were available -- a baseball game, a student reception, a breakfast, a lunch, a coffee.''
 Ms. Kagan had been a close ally of Mr. Summers, but she was noticeably silent when he ran into a public relations buzz saw over his impolitic remarks about women's aptitude for science -- remarks that helped cost him his job. Privately, Ms. Kagan told friends and colleagues that she thought the fracas was overblown. But she also resisted entreaties by allies of Mr. Summers to publicly defend him, according to two people familiar with the situation, speaking on condition of anonymity.
 One said friends of Mr. Summers viewed her silence as an act of disloyalty, the other said Ms. Kagan simply did not want to drag the law school into the fray. Her style was one of careful balance, said Dennis F. Thompson, a professor of political philosophy.
 ''She doesn't avoid getting engaged in issues that are controversial,'' he said. ''But she doesn't herself want to be the object of controversy.''
 As a Harvard law graduate, Ms. Kagan was no stranger when she arrived in Cambridge, Mass., as a visiting professor in 1999, the year Mr. Summers became Mr. Clinton's Treasury secretary. The job was ''clearly a look-see'' said Carol Steiker, a Harvard law professor and close friend of Ms. Kagan's, with the understanding that she would get tenure if it worked out.
 Professor Kagan was an instant hit with students, demanding and energetic, with a self-deprecating wit. She threw herself into the rhythms of faculty life, attending workshops to comment on colleagues' writings, advising the law review board, having frequent dinners with colleagues.
 Among the most contentious issues then facing Harvard was how to expand beyond the confines of Cambridge. The university had been buying up property across the Charles River in the Boston neighborhood of Allston. When Mr. Summers's predecessor, Neil L. Rudenstine, suggested that the law school move, the law faculty responded by voting against it, 37 to 1.
 ''It's rare that anyone here agrees about anything,'' Professor Steiker said, ''but everyone agreed we didn't want our campus moved across the river.''
 But when Mr. Summers was installed as president in 2001, he put the Allston move back on the table. With the faculty up in arms, the longtime law school dean, Robert C. Clark, asked Ms. Kagan to head a study committee; he thought she had the potential to succeed him as dean and wanted to give her a leadership role. Ms. Kagan, who had just been granted tenure, would be wading into perhaps the most fractious issue at the university.
 She seemed to have an instinctive feel for how to build a case that would work with Mr. Summers. ''Her approach was to give a rational basis, instead of just an emotional one, for the faculty's reaction,'' Professor Clark said.
 She hired a consultant, and persuaded the university to foot the bill, producing a 101-page strategic plan that considered everything from future growth to dormitory space to the intellectual benefits of remaining near the arts and sciences buildings. She made no explicit recommendation, but the study strongly suggested that Allston was far better suited to the biomedical sciences than the law school. The plan was soon dead, and Ms. Kagan gained folk hero status.
 ''I didn't think we had a snowball's chance,'' said Prof. J. Mark Ramseyer, a member of the committee. ''Her stock went way up on the reputational grapevine on the strength of that report,'' said another law professor, Randall L. Kennedy.
 The report came out in November 2002, the same month that Mr. Clark announced he was stepping down as dean. Mr. Summers appointed a search committee to advise him on a replacement. Ms. Kagan had already written an award-winning article in her area of scholarship, administrative law. While Mr. Summers had ''real respect'' for her, he also had reservations, one person familiar with the search said.
 ''He wasn't entirely sure he could trust her to make the right kind of scholarly judgments,'' said the person, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
 While Mr. Summers interviewed other candidates, including Robert C. Post, now the dean of the Yale Law School, Ms. Kagan, flew off to the University of Texas at Austin to interview for a dean's position. When Harvard law professors met in small groups for lunch and dinner to discuss the qualities they would like to see in a dean, Professor Ogletree said, she never said that she was interested in the job. ''Not once,'' he said. ''Not even a hint.''
 But in the end, Ms. Kagan became Mr. Summers's choice. He said she had impressed her colleagues -- and him -- ''by the way in which she had reached out and solicited many views, and her consensus-building style.''
 In an interview with The New York Times last year, Ms. Kagan sounded grateful to Mr. Summers.
 ''Quite a number of us who are women and relished working with Larry, and who felt that he had, in some sense, recognized our talents, even when others wouldn't have, felt that he was given a bum rap and were not shy about telling people so,'' she said.
 They got on well: their one seeming disagreement -- over her decision to briefly bar military recruiters from law school facilities -- was really ''a set piece,'' one colleague said, with Mr. Summers, who did not want to jeopardize Harvard's federal funding, working with Ms. Kagan to balance the university's interests against the law faculty's opposition to the military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy.
 Ms. Kagan did something unusual for a law dean: she forged relationships elsewhere at Harvard, especially with the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the traditional seat of power. ''She made an effort to reach out and build intellectual bridges,'' said Thomas M. Scanlon Jr., a philosophy professor who attended a luncheon Ms. Kagan hosted for the arts and sciences faculty.
 Those bridges would have been essential for anyone seeking higher office at Harvard. By 2007, with Mr. Summers gone, it was clear that Ms. Kagan aspired to the university presidency, though colleagues say she was careful not to appear to be openly campaigning for the job.
 At the law school, professors and students believed she was a finalist for the president's job. ''We all thought she would get it, and we were scared that she would leave and that all the changes she had implemented would no longer be kept up,'' said Sarah Isgur, a 2008 graduate, who ran the Harvard Law chapter of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group.
 But the search committee had heard reports that Ms. Kagan had been harsh with her administrative staff, and its members felt her scholarly interests were ''too narrow gauge,'' said one person familiar with the search, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss private deliberations. And it might have been difficult for a law dean to ascend to the presidency; Derek Bok had done so, but Harvard tended to choose humanists or scientists for the job.
 When the historian Drew Gilpin Faust got the nod, law school students threw Ms. Kagan a party. Several hundred of them turned up in ''I EK'' T-shirts; The Harvard Crimson reported that Ms. Kagan teared up at the sight.
 ''Sometimes, you win by losing,'' the newspaper quoted her as saying, with her voice breaking slightly as she addressed the crowd. ''All of you have made me feel like a real winner today.''
 It was February 2007 -- the same month that a freshman Democratic senator from Illinois named Barack Obama announced plans to run for the White House. Professor Steiker tried to console her friend by telling her that there was a good chance a Democrat would win in 2008, and there might be bigger things in store.
 ''I think she was disappointed not to be selected, as anyone would be,'' Professor Steiker said. ''I remember saying to her, 'I can understand why you would want this, but what if a Democrat wins the White House? You could be on the Supreme Court.' She nodded, but it wasn't like she said, 'Yeah, I'm really glad I didn't get that.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the career ambitions of Elena Kagan, the Supreme Court nominee, while she was at Harvard Law School, where she was appointed dean in 2003, misstated the educational affiliation of another law professor who was considered for the dean's job. The professor, Robert C. Post, was at the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law at that time; he was not the dean of Yale Law School. (He later moved to Yale and became dean there in 2009.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2003, Lawrence H. Summers, center, announced Elena Kagan was succeeding Robert C. Clark, left, as dean of Harvard Law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Elena Kagan, President Obama's solicitor general, was known at Harvard as a consensus builder with deft political skills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN MCCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACADEMIC TENURE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); JUDGES (66%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (94%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



679 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Tension in Korea Unsettles Markets

BYLINE: By MARTIN HUTCHINSON, EDWARD HADAS and ROB COX

 BODY:
Investors rarely like wars or rumors of war. But for global markets, the renewed military tension on the Korean peninsula comes at a particularly inopportune time. The threat to this fairly big economy -- South Korea's economy is four times larger than Greece's -- furthers the impression of a world out of control.
 South Korea's response to the likelihood that the North torpedoed a South Korean naval vessel in March seems proportionate, merited and economically minor. The severance of relations will hit an annual trade of only $286 million, about 0.3 percent of South Korea's gross domestic product. The effect on the already impoverished northerners may even be mitigated by China, Pyongyang's traditional ally. 
 In more settled economic times, markets could probably absorb this increase in Korean tension without too much difficulty. Everyone knows North Korea is dangerously unpredictable. Investors usually respond to provocative actions with only a brief flurry of worry. They sometimes even interpret aggression as desperation, and dream of potential gains from eventual Korean unification.
 This time could be different. As of Tuesday, the Kospi index in South Korea had dropped 4.8 percent since the official report on the sinking, and the won had fallen 5.3 percent against the dollar. Investors may be thinking South Korean companies will face higher capital costs or that military expense will hold back the country's growth. Or they may just be blindly shunning geopolitical risk.
 The fear is likely to be exaggerated. An all-out war can probably be avoided, even if North Korea's announcement of a freeze in relations leads to direct military confrontations. What's more, the Korean economy accounts for only 1.5 percent of global G.D.P. The euro zone contributes 22 percent.
 The political forces that are threatening the Korean peninsula are completely different from those that are shaking confidence in the euro zone. But there is one unfortunate similarity. Until a few months ago, the governments, which had responded so powerfully to the financial crisis, were a comfort to markets. But weak and wild policies around the globe are undermining that conviction.
 No Expletives, Please
 Carol Bartz's foul language may play well in the purple bleacher seats at Yahoo, the demoralized Internet business she runs. But investors should be wary of executives spouting obscenities at critics -- even the pesky blogger whom Ms. Bartz cursed out on Monday. As Enron's Jeffrey Skilling can attest, there's a fine line between robust discourse and shooting the messenger.
 Salty language can sometimes be a mark of earthy candor or pugnacious leadership. And frequently such responses are provoked. That was perhaps the case with Ms. Bartz, who responded to a provocation from the Techcrunch founder, and Silicon Valley gadfly, Michael Arrington with an expletive. Still, that's odd behavior to exhibit at a voluntary event sponsored by Techcrunch.
 There are two problems with Ms. Bartz's response. First, any savvy Internet executive must surely know how an unbuttoned-down response is prone to spread like wildfire on the Web. Indeed, having just announced a big tie-up with Nokia on the same morning as her intemperate retort, Ms. Bartz should have expected someone in the audience would have a cellphone set to video.
 But quite apart from the fear of getting caught is the more vexing question of Yahoo's poor performance, which absolutely lends itself to saucy questions from shareholders and their quasi-journalistic proxies. Investors have little to show for the $47 million pay package that Yahoo dangled to bring Ms. Bartz in from the obscurity of her previous employer, Autodesk.
 Just do the stock market math. Since she was named to Yahoo's top job in January 2009, Yahoo shares have rallied around 16 percent. Google has risen just over 50 percent. Even the Nasdaq has outpaced Yahoo by more than two and a half times.
 If Yahoo weren't such a dog, Ms. Bartz's response might be defensible. In light of the firm's laggardly performance, however, it smacks of the same kind of desperation that led Mr. Skilling to dress down a hedge fund executive with a vulgarity in April 2001 for questioning the soon-to-go-bust firm's financials on a conference call.
 Shooting the messenger is never a sign of strength. More often it is a sign of an executive trying to change the subject.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carol Bartz has been chief executive of Yahoo since January 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); SPONSORSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (83%); MICHAEL ARRINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



680 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: New Injection Of Tension Further Frays 2 Koreas' Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and CHOE SANG-HUN; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea. Mark Landler contributed reporting from Beijing.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- North and South Korea accelerated their diplomatic confrontation on Tuesday over the recent sinking of a South Korean warship, with the South saying it would redesignate the North its ''archenemy'' and North Korea severing almost all of its remaining ties to its far wealthier neighbor. 
 American officials were cautious in their public statements, eager to avoid giving the North reason for further escalation. Military officials said no additional American combat forces, warships or aircraft had moved into the region -- a standard practice in many past crises, including one in 2003. Officials watching activity on the ground through satellite photographs said there was no ''unusual'' activity at North Korea's main nuclear test site.
Both South Korea and the United States have blamed North Korea for the sinking of the ship, which they say was hit by a torpedo. 
 The biggest concern within the Obama administration is that the diplomatic skirmishing between the North and South that has followed could spill, by design or accident, into an armed confrontation. The confrontation already appears to be the closest the two countries have come to open hostilities since 1994, when the North threatened to turn Seoul into a ''sea of fire'' if its nuclear violations were referred to the United Nations for sanctions. South Korea and the United States have said they will bring the issue of the sinking, which killed 46 sailors, to the Security Council for unspecified action.
 Whether significant new sanctions are applied depends on China's leaders, who were conspicuously silent about tough measures against the North during Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's visit to Beijing this week. So far China has said nothing about the evidence that North Korea was responsible for the sinking; that evidence was collected by South Korea and vetted by inspectors from several other countries.
 The designation of ''archenemy,'' announced by President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, formalized the obvious, but it was a complete break from the ''sunshine policy'' of his two predecessors, Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun. ''In the past 10 years, we have failed to establish the concept of principal enemy,'' Mr. Lee told a meeting of senior advisers on Tuesday. ''We have ignored the very danger under our feet.'' 
 The North responded by saying it would terminate all communications with the South while Mr. Lee, a conservative, was in office, and stop the South's jets from using its airspace.
 But both countries let their biggest venture, the joint Kaesong industrial park, remain open, though its operations are expected to be crippled. Neither country seemed to take the final step, at least yet, of dismantling the last sign of progress they made in improving relations over the past decade, or losing the tens of thousands of jobs the industrial park creates. 
 On Wednesday, the North Korean military threatened to ''completely block South Korean personnel and vehicles'' from Kaesong if the South resumes its psychological warfare. But the South Korean government said that the North had used a military tie line to approve the entry of hundreds of workers from the South to work their regular shifts at the industrial complex.
 And the North, continuing its sharp language, warned that it would attack and destroy the propaganda loudspeakers to be put up along the border by the South, calling them a ''military provocation.''
 While there is a numbing amount of ritual threats and counterthreats involved in any crisis with North Korea, there are several big differences between the current one and other confrontations over the past 20 years. 
 This one takes place as North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, tries to build up the military credentials of one of his sons to extend the family dynasty in the country to a third generation. That succession plan, which remains murky even for American intelligence agencies, could change the dynamic, and give Mr. Kim an interest in escalating the confrontation. 
 This is also the first crisis since North Korea conducted two nuclear tests -- one in 2006, another just months after President Obama was inaugurated in 2009. The North is now believed to have fuel for at least eight weapons, and that may give the country's military leadership greater confidence that the United States and South Korea will not risk military retaliation, even if the confrontation escalates.
 ''We don't think this is over, and there are plenty of reasons to believe that this is just an opening salvo by Kim Jong-il,'' one senior American official said. 
 Thomas Hubbard, the American ambassador in Seoul during the 2003 nuclear crisis, when the North threw out international inspectors and began harvesting the nuclear fuel, said: ''This is a profoundly different kind of attack on South Korea than we've seen in recent times. It is a military attack on a military target -- a violation of the armistice -- rather than an act of terrorism.'' 
 And North Korea's growing nuclear capacity ''may explain why they felt emboldened to carry out an attack as brazen as this,'' he said. 
 In that regard, it poses a challenge to the Obama administration, just as Mr. Obama is staking much of his legacy on convincing countries that nuclear weapons constrain their options, rather than making them more powerful. Mr. Kim clearly subscribes to a different theory. One early lesson that may emerge from the West's cautious response to the sinking of the South's ship may well be that he calculated correctly that what he calls his ''nuclear deterrent'' could help keep him, and his family, in power.
 Even before the North made real progress on its nuclear program, however, the South was hesitant to respond too strongly to Pyongyang's provocations for fear it could ravage Seoul with conventional weapons. 
 So far the Obama administration has portrayed itself as willing to let South Korea take the lead, befitting its role as one of the world's largest economies. In truth, South Korean and American policy makers appear in near-hourly contact, and Mrs. Clinton traveled to Seoul on Wednesday.
 ''Right now our strategy is being driven by alliance considerations and domestic politics,'' said Joel Wit, who worked on North Korean issues for several previous administrations, co-authored a study of the 1994 crisis and now runs a Web site called ''38North'' on Korean issues. ''We've ceded the initiatives to the North Koreans,'' he said. 
 If Kim Jong-il is seeking to bolster the credentials of his youngest son, Kim Jong-un, it could explain reports in Seoul that Mr. Kim ordered his military and reserve forces to be ready for war, an organization of North Korean defectors said on Tuesday.
 Last Thursday, when the South formally accused the North of torpedoing its ship, a senior North Korean general relayed Mr. Kim's order through a broadcast to intercoms fitted in most North Korean homes, said North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity, a Web site based in Seoul and run by North Korean defectors with contacts in the North. 
 The reports of the alert status helped cause the main stock index in Seoul to drop more than three percentage points in early trading. The South Korean currency also weakened sharply. 
 On Monday evening, South Korea resumed its ''Voice of Freedom'' radio broadcasts directed at the North Korean people. It boasted of the South's economic prosperity and belittled the North Korean government for failing to feed its people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



681 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Adds Rochester Mayor to His Ticket for Governor

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Michael Barbaro and Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For Mayor Robert J. Duffy of Rochester, the shooting of a police officer by a sixth-grade dropout last year drove home an urgent message: His city could do nothing about crime if it did not fix its broken schools. 
 ''You look at him and you go, 'Where did we go wrong?' '' Mr. Duffy said after the teenager shot the police officer in the head, in one of a string of shootings by young dropouts in recent years. 
 On Wednesday, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced that he had selected Mr. Duffy to be his running mate in the race for the governor's office, choosing a popular upstate politician and a former police chief best known for his effort to assert mayoral control over Rochester's schools. 
 His selection as a candidate for lieutenant governor was hailed by many Democrats who have worked alongside Mr. Duffy, although some party members said they had hoped Mr. Cuomo would add an African-American or Hispanic candidate to the ticket.
 Mr. Cuomo, at a press conference introducing Mr. Duffy in Manhattan, acknowledged the need for diversity but noted that the Rochester mayor would bring geographic balance.
 ''Can you always get all the diversity you want when you want it?'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''No.''
 Selection of a running mate is no longer an afterthought in New York, given that the man elected lieutenant governor four years ago, David A. Paterson, became governor after Eliot Spitzer was felled by a prostitution scandal. Mr. Paterson later became mired in a series of scandals and missteps, raising questions about the wisdom of Mr. Spitzer's selection. 
 Mr. Cuomo has been considering Mr. Duffy as his choice for lieutenant governor since at least late last year, seeing him as a candidate who could bring upstate representation to a state government that has been dominated by Democrats from New York City and Long Island.
 Mr. Duffy also shares Mr. Cuomo's blend of centrist fiscal philosophy and left-leaning social views: both men are Catholics who support same-sex marriage and abortion rights. 
 Mr. Duffy was approved by acclamation as the party's designee for lieutenant governor on Wednesday, not long after the announcement. 
 There were previously two relatively unknown candidates who had declared interest in the job, but they did not have the support of the party's candidate for governor and the party apparatus. Thus, Mr. Duffy is virtually assured of being the party's nominee for lieutenant governor. 
 Republicans will select among four candidates for governor next month: Rick A. Lazio, a former congressman from Long Island; Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive; Carl Paladino, a business executive from the Buffalo area; and Myers Mermel, a Manhattan real estate businessman.
 Mr. Duffy, 55, a Rochester native, was first elected in 2005 and built up so much support in the city, which has about 200,000 residents, that he ran unopposed for re-election last year. The bulk of his career has been in the Police Department: he joined the force in 1976 and took over as chief in 1998. Among other things, he helped develop a local version of CompStat, New York City's data-driven crime-fighting system, which has been replicated in departments across the country. 
 Mr. Duffy, who is known for his approachability and ability to win over adversaries, is expected to continue to serve as mayor through the end of the year -- and beyond if his ticket loses. And he indicated on Wednesday that he would continue his push for mayoral control. Mayor Stephanie A. Miner of Syracuse, who attended Mr. Duffy's State of the City address earlier this year, said he told her, ''This is a hill I am prepared to die on.''
 But on Wednesday, Mr. Duffy said he could ultimately do more for his city, and the rest of the state, as part of a Cuomo administration. ''I accepted for one reason: I believe in this man,'' he said, appearing alongside Mr. Cuomo at the news conference in Midtown.
 ''I've seen firsthand the failures we've seen in this state,'' he added. ''What we can't do is keep putting the enormous costs of government on the back of people.''
 His selection comes just as the Paterson administration is poised to introduce legislation giving Mayor Duffy greater control over Rochester's school system. The bill will most likely face opposition from labor leaders, but it has support among senior Democrats in Albany.
 ''After seeing the link between the failure of our educational system and crime and the declining population, I can truly say that the time has come to do something different with our schools,'' Mr. Duffy said this year, reflecting his holistic approach to the myriad problems that trouble his shrinking city. 
 The role of lieutenant governor is generally considered ambiguous, but Mr. Cuomo said he did not want to ''trivialize'' the job. He suggested that Mr. Duffy might work on developing a ''focus on upstate New York in a way that hasn't been done before,'' though the last few governors have tried, and failed, to produce a turnaround of economic fortunes upstate.
 Mr. Cuomo, who has sought to keep a tight control over information about his campaign, offered Mr. Duffy the job on Tuesday night. The Cuomo campaign said Mr. Duffy would not be available for an interview on Wednesday, and Mr. Cuomo has also declined requests for an interview. 
 Mr. Cuomo said of Mr. Duffy, ''He actually reduced taxes in the city of Rochester at a time when taxes were going up all across the state.'' 
 ''He has done in Rochester,'' Mr. Cuomo added, ''what we need to do in New York State: get our fiscal house in order.''
 Mr. Duffy, who is married and has two daughters in their 20s, attended Catholic schools and graduated from the Rochester Institute of Technology. After becoming a police officer, he received a master's degree from Syracuse University.
 Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, said Wednesday that he had worked with Mr. Duffy on a range of issues and had come to respect him greatly. ''I like the way he worked with his delegation, most of whom originally did not support him,'' Mr. Silver said.
 But State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., one of Albany's more outspoken Democrats, said he would have preferred Mayor Byron Brown of Buffalo, an African-American. 
 Mr. Diaz said it ''would have brought balance to the ticket.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Robert J. Duffy of Rochester, at the lectern, was selected by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, right, to run for lieutenant governor on his ticket.
Supporters gathered at a news conference in Manhattan, where Mr. Cuomo announced his choice on Wednesday. He offered Mr. Duffy the job Tuesday. (A24)
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, center right, said Mayor Robert J. Duffy, left, brought geographic balance to the ticket. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); SEX SCANDALS (69%); SCANDALS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%); DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



682 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Over 14 Years, an American Inmate and Peru Itself Found Ways to Transform

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima, Peru.

 BODY:
BOGOTA, Colombia -- When Lori Berenson was jailed in Peru on terrorism charges over 14 years ago, she was a fiery young leftist from New York enmeshed in a shadowy Marxist rebel group, stunning a war-weary nation with her clenched fists and defiant statements in support of revolution. 
 Now that Ms. Berenson, 40, has been granted parole from a women's prison in Lima, Peru's capital, both she and the nation that imprisoned her have changed in significant ways. Though her past still looms large, prison officials and fellow inmates now talk about her baking skills, her teaching music to cellmates and her devotion to her 1-year-old son, Salvador. 
 ''He is my reason for living,'' Ms. Berenson said in February in an interview at Pavilion A in Chorrillos Maximum Security Women's Prison. 
 Peru, meanwhile, has largely vanquished its terrorist threats, except for small Maoist factions feeding off the cocaine trade in remote areas. The country now boasts a growing economy and a democracy that is still coming to terms with the mayhem unleashed by guerrillas and its own security forces in the 1980s and '90s. 
 Resentment still festers over Ms. Berenson's role in that violence, a sentiment that will be hard to avoid given that she has been ordered to remain in Peru while on parole. 
 Nearly 70,000 people died in 20 years of war with the nation's rebels. And while Ms. Berenson maintains her innocence in connection with the terrorism charges, a Peruvian tribunal convicted her in 2001 of collaborating with the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement by renting a safe house and scouting for the group in preparation for a foiled plot to take members of Peru's Congress hostage.
 ''What indignation,'' said Peru's vice president, Luis Giampietri, after hearing of the plan for her release. ''The laws here are applied with a double standard.'' 
 Ms. Berenson, while having mellowed somewhat during her long years in prison, holds a different view, contending that the Peruvian authorities violated her right to a fair trial during closed military proceedings in 1996, and then deprived her of due process rights in another civilian trial in 2001 when she was sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
 Her mother still speaks of the trying months Ms. Berenson spent in solitary confinement in the late 1990s. And though Ms. Berenson has publicly apologized for appearing strident after her arrest in 1995 on a city bus in downtown Lima, she seemed despondent at times over her own health problems and the prospect of raising her son in prison or perhaps losing custody of him.
 Considering that two American presidents -- Bill Clinton and then George W. Bush -- both pressed Ms. Berenson's case with their Peruvian counterparts without securing an early release, the judge's decision to grant parole came as something of a surprise. 
 Faced with a public uproar in Peru over Ms. Berenson's release, Jessica Leon, the judge overseeing her case, defended the decision in a statement on Wednesday, saying it was based on a psychological analysis of Ms. Berenson and reports of her good behavior in prisons over the last 14 and a half years. President Alan Garcia said Wednesday that he respected the judge's ruling.
 Yet Ms. Berenson does not hide her leftist convictions. Through her writings, she has criticized a Peruvian trade deal with the United States and the persistent economic inequality in Peru. 
 ''I don't think she'd be a Tea Partier,'' said her mother, Rhoda Berenson, a physicist at New York University, when asked about her daughter's ideological evolution. 
 The Peruvian authorities transferred Ms. Berenson last year, while she was five months pregnant and suffering from back problems, to the Chorrillos prison in Lima from another facility in Cajamarca, in Peru's northern highlands. She gave birth at a hospital in Lima and underwent surgery a few months later for problems related to a fractured vertebra.
 Ms. Berenson, the daughter of two New York academics, dropped out of M.I.T. and roamed around Central America before surfacing in Peru in the 1990s. 
 After her arrest, she spent several years in an isolated prison, 12,000 feet up in the Puno region of southern Peru. That was where she met Anibal Apari, who was also jailed on charges of collaborating with the rebels. After his release, they wed in 2003 and were allowed to have conjugal visits as is custom in Peru and other Latin American countries.
 They are no longer a couple but remain ''great friends,'' Mr. Apari, who is also Ms. Berenson's lawyer, said in a telephone interview from Lima. He said she planned to move into a rented apartment in the Miraflores district of the capital once she is released in the coming days, hoping to work as a translator and possibly open a business baking bread and pastries, a skill she polished during her years of incarceration in Cajamarca. 
 Her father, Mark Berenson, a management professor at Montclair State University in New Jersey, said he thought a wealth of opportunities awaited his daughter. ''The world has changed so much since she was locked up in 1995,'' he said Tuesday morning before traveling to Lima. ''She hasn't seen Facebook or had access to computers, but she has been reading a lot of books in Spanish.'' 
 But many challenges await as well. Television crews descended on her neighbors-to-be in Lima, some of whom expressed disgust at the prospect of living near a ''terrorist,'' as she is still branded in Lima's newspapers. As part of her parole, she must report every 30 days to discuss her work experiences and cannot consume alcohol. She is also expected to be barred from leaving Peru until 2015, when her sentence expires. 
 Ms. Berenson occupied herself in recent months by taking her son outside onto the prison's patio and pushing his stroller around under the city's gray sky. One of her favorite books, her mother said, was ''Half a Yellow Sun,'' a novel on the Biafra rebellion in Nigeria in 1967. Sometimes Ms. Berenson would play the guitar, accompanying fellow inmates on Spanish-language songs. Her friends at the prison helped her care for Salvador, especially when back pain strained her. 
 ''Prison has helped her turn attention to a new phase in her life,'' said Camille Boutron, a French sociologist whose writings focus on the inmates of Ms. Berenson's pavilion. ''Lori is a person who is always fighting for something.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Berenson on Tuesday at the justice hall of Chorrillos Maximum Security Women's Prison, where she was told that she had been granted parole. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PERUVIAN JUSTICE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PAROLE (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); LITIGATION (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); DUE PROCESS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); COCAINE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (89%) PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



683 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Say a Global Recovery Is Under Way

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Just as economic growth is gathering steam globally, the threat of overheating in parts of Asia and Europe's budget deficit woes are raising warning signs, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Wednesday.
 In its twice-yearly Economic Outlook, the O.E.C.D. raised its growth forecasts for the major economies: the United States, Europe and Japan. The rebound from last year's downturn is being driven by an increase in trade, booming emerging markets, the continued support of government stimulus policies -- now starting to be unwound -- a housing market recovery in some countries and improved market conditions, the report said.
 ''These developments bode well for a recovery in the whole O.E.C.D. area,'' the organization's secretary-general, Angel Gurria, said. 
 Gross domestic product across the O.E.C.D.'s 31 members was projected to grow by 2.7 percent this year and by 2.8 percent in 2011. Those were revised upward from the November forecasts of 1.9 percent in 2010 and 2.5 percent next year. 
 ''We're slowly moving from a policy-driven recovery to a self-sustaining recovery,'' the organization's chief economist, Pier Carlo Padoan, said in an interview. 
 The United States appears to be in a stronger position than the euro area, he said, helped by better financial market conditions and ''a number of more favorable elements on the fiscal side,'' notably the outlook for stronger tax revenues, which means it can delay debt reduction steps until 2015.
 At the same time, the shift in liquidity from developed markets to such places as China and India, and the weak fiscal position of the euro-area countries present risks, the report stressed.
 ''As activity gathers momentum, global imbalances are beginning to widen again,'' it said, citing in particular the ''magnitude of capital inflows in emerging-market economies and instability in sovereign debt markets.''
 The recent debt crisis centered in Europe has ''highlighted the need for the euro area to strengthen significantly its institutional and operational architecture to dissipate doubts about the long-term viability of the monetary union,'' the O.E.C.D. said. ''At a minimum, surveillance of domestic policies needs to be strengthened, taking on board broader competitiveness considerations.''
 Mr. Padoan noted that there had been an ''acceleration in the sense of urgency'' among European countries to try to bring their deficits under control. Yet despite the recent spate of announcements, most of the policies will not take effect until next year.
 And these efforts may not be enough to avoid continued volatility in debt markets, the report warned. ''Bolder measures need to be taken to ensure fiscal discipline, along a continuum that ranges from stronger surveillance and more effective sanctions for non-compliance, to external auditing of national budgets, all the way to de facto fiscal union.'' 
 Mr. Padoan cautioned that it was wiser for countries like Spain, France and Britain, which are trying to rein in long-term liabilities, to focus on raising revenue through indirect or consumption-related taxes, rather than higher direct taxes, which can have a more harmful effect on growth. 
 ''The whole continent must change its political morale and perhaps its social welfare and state model,'' Giulio Tremonti, the finance minister of Italy, told an economic forum at the O.E.C.D. ''We are confronted with hard choices. The public coffers are not unlimited.''
 Italy became the latest euro-area country to announce austerity measures when it proposed budget cuts Tuesday aiming to cut its deficit to below 3 percent of G.D.P. by 2012, from 5.3 percent last year. The measures center on cuts to public spending; no new taxes will be introduced and no existing taxes will be raised. 
 Mr. Tremonti said the government's aim was to ''maintain what is necessary for social cohesion.'' As a result, it did not plan to reduce spending on health and social security, but instead would seek less spending at the regional and municipal level while ''better integrating'' central services.
 On a more positive note for the region, the recent decline in the euro could help the outlook, by lifting the competitiveness of exporters. ''The euro was bit overvalued,'' Mr. Padoan said, adding its decline will help ''rebalance'' global economic disequilibrium. 
 Here, China can also play a role by allowing its currency to climb, Mr. Padoan said, describing such a move as ''low hanging fruit'' for the authorities. That, and lower interest rates, would help to offset rising inflation pressure in China and reduce the risk of an economic hard landing, after years of surging growth rates. 
 The report forecast a moderate decline in Chinese growth to 9.7 percent next year, from 11.1 percent this year, with consumer prices steady at an annual rise of 2.5 percent for both years.
 ''Overheating in emerging-market economies also poses a serious risk,'' the report said. ''A boom-bust scenario cannot be ruled out, requiring a much stronger tightening of monetary policy in some non-O.E.C.D. countries, including China and India, to counter inflationary pressures and reduce the risk of asset-price bubbles.''
 The O.E.C.D. said that given these risks, monetary policy in advanced economies needs to be ''normalized,'' after a period where central banks took extraordinary steps to inject cash into the system to prevent a collapse of the financial system. Support is already being removed in several countries and exit strategies must take into account nascent fiscal consolidation ''so as to facilitate it without putting undue pressure on interest rates.'' 
 Over all, the organization said that the outlook for inflation remains ''benign'' in the advanced economies due to considerable economic slack. The main risk of inflation becoming ''unanchored'' is if strong growth in emerging-market economies keeps pushing up energy and commodity prices. 
 The report forecast real growth in gross domestic product in the United States of 3.2 percent this year and next year. That was higher than a forecast made in November of 2.5 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2011. The U.S. jobless rate is expected by the O.E.C.D. to fall to 8.9 percent in 2011 from 9.7 percent this year.
 ''The Federal Reserve and the administration should gradually with draw policy stimulus as economic growth becomes self-sustaining,'' the report said
 Growth in the euro-area was estimated at 1.2 percent this year and 1.8 percent next year. That was an improvement from the November figure of 0.9 percent this year and 1.7 percent next year. Unemployment will remain high in the region, at 10.1 percent next year, it said.
 For Britain, the O.E.C.D. forecast growth of 1.3 percent this year, held back by high inflation and lingering effects of the credit crunch, before rising to 2.5 percent next year, when household consumption and business investment start to build momentum. Inflation should start to fall back next year as the effects of a recent sales tax increase start to wane
 For Japan, the economy was forecast to expand 3 percent this year and 2 percent in 2011. The recovery has been driven by exports, despite the significant appreciation of the yen, and fiscal stimulus.
 The O.E.C.D. said the Bank of Japan should keep its ultra-loose monetary stance until ''underlying inflation is firmly positive.''
 For India, the organization forecast strong growth rates of 8.3 percent this year and 8.5 percent next year. Brazilian G.D.P. was forecast togrow 6.5 percent this year and 5 percent next year.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angel Gurria, right, the secretary general of the O.E.C.D., led a conference for mayors and ministers in Paris on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB EDME/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EURO (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (86%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



684 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: BP OFFICIALS TOOK A RISKIER OPTION FOR WELL CASING

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA; Reporting was contributed by Henry Fountain and Tom Zeller Jr. from New York, Robbie Brown from Kenner, La., and Matthew L. Wald from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Several days before the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, BP officials chose, partly for financial reasons, to use a type of casing for the well that the company knew was the riskier of two options, according to a BP document.
 The concern with the method BP chose, the document said, was that if the cement around the casing pipe did not seal properly, gases could leak all the way to the wellhead, where only a single seal would serve as a barrier. 
 Using a different type of casing would have provided two barriers, according to the document, which was provided to The New York Times by a Congressional investigator. 
 Workers from the rig and company officials have said that hours before the explosion, gases were leaking through the cement, which had been set in place by the oil services contractor, Halliburton. Investigators have said these leaks were the likely cause of the explosion. 
 The approach taken by the company was described as the ''best economic case'' in the BP document. However, it also carried risks beyond the potential gas leaks, including the possibility that more work would be needed or that there would be delays, the document said. 
 BP's decision was ''without a doubt a riskier way to go,'' said Greg McCormack, director of the Petroleum Extension Service at the University of Texas at Austin. Several other engineers agreed with Mr. McCormack's assessment of the BP document. 
 Andrew Gowers, a spokesman for BP, said that there was no industry standard for the casing to be used in deepwater wells and that the approach by the Deepwater Horizon had not been unusual. ''BP engineers evaluate various factors for each well to determine the most appropriate casing strategy,'' he said. 
 The role of financial and time pressures in the rig blast is one focus of a series of hearings by the Coast Guard and the Minerals Management Service that began Wednesday in Kenner, just outside New Orleans.
 Douglas H. Brown, the chief mechanic for the Deepwater Horizon, testified Wednesday that he witnessed a ''skirmish'' on the rig between a BP well site leader and crew members employed by Transocean, the rig's owner, the morning of the blast. 
 Mr. Brown said the disagreement followed BP's decision to replace heavy drilling fluid with lighter saltwater before the well was sealed with a final cement plug. 
 ''Well, this is how it's going to be,'' the BP official said, according to Mr. Brown. 
 Mr. Gowers declined to answer questions about workers' accusations or about whether cost may have factored into the company's decision to use the casing system it chose for the Deepwater Horizon.
 BP executives will probably face tough questioning about cost-cutting measures on Thursday when they testify before the House Committee on Natural Resources. As more details come to light about the events that led to the explosion, investigators are trying to determine which decisions and incidents -- or combination of them -- may have led to the accident, which killed 11 workers. 
 For example, Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia and the chairman of the committee, said BP executives would face questions about why they let workers from Schlumberger, a drilling-services contractor, leave the morning of the accident without conducting a special test on the quality of the cement work.
 Engineers have described these tests, called cement bond logs, as an important tool for ensuring cement integrity.
 The decision about the casings will also come up during the hearings. 
 Professor McCormack said that while the type of casing that BP chose to use was more expensive in the short term, it was ultimately the more cost-effective and versatile alternative because it would have allowed the company to more easily drill deeper in the same hole if they decide to do so later.
 But, the BP records explain, the casing chosen by the company may also cause problems if drilling mud or cement is lost or pushed away from the well into porous rocks as it is pumped. 
 Federal and company records indicate that that is just what happened, on more than one occasion. The rig lost all of its drilling mud in an incident in March, and in the days immediately before the explosion, records show. The well experienced several other instances of minor losses of drilling fluid and gas kicks, according to interviews with workers from the rig.
 The April 20 disagreement between the BP well site leader and Transocean officials is also a growing focus of the investigation. 
 At a briefing in Washington on Wednesday, investigators laid out a chain of events, beginning with an operational error, that appear to have led to the accident. 
 The findings are preliminary, and come from BP, which owns the lease on the well and has pointed fingers at other companies for the problems on the rig, including Transocean.
 The BP officials said that rig workers apparently had not pumped in enough water to fully replace the buffer liquid between the water and the mud, which stayed in the blowout preventer, the stack of safety valves at the wellhead.
 This thick liquid, which is about one-third solid material, may have clogged the pipe that was used for crucial ''negative pressure'' tests to determine whether the well was properly sealed. The result was a pressure reading of zero (because the pipe was plugged, not because there was no pressure in the well) and the workers apparently misinterpreted that result as indicating a successful test.
 Rig workers declared they were ''satisfied'' with the tests and started to replace drilling mud in the pipe to the seabed with water. About two hours later, the blowout and explosion occurred.
 Evidence began emerging Wednesday that BP officials may have had an incentive to proceed quickly. 
 A member of the federal panel investigating the cause of the blast said that before the explosion, the company had hoped to use the Deepwater Horizon to drill another well by early March, but was behind schedule. 
 BP applied to use the Deepwater rig to drill in another oil field by March 8, said Jason Mathews, a petroleum engineer for the Minerals Management Service. 
 Based on an estimate of $500,000 per day to drill on the site, the delay of 43 days had cost BP more than $21 million by the day of the explosion on April 20, Mr. Mathews estimated.
 A Transocean official -- Adrian Rose, the company's health, safety and environmental manager -- confirmed that BP leased the rig for $533,000 per day. He could not confirm where the Deepwater Horizon was planning to go next, but he said it was going to undertake another drill, probably for BP.
 The Latest on the Oil Spill: BP Begins 'Top Kill' Attempt BP went ahead Wednesday afternoon with the effort to plug the mile-deep gusher of oil that has been streaming into the Gulf of Mexico for more than a month. Company officials say that this method of stopping spills has never been tried so far underwater, and that it may take days to determine whether it has succeeded. Spill Is 'Heartbreaking,' Obama Says During a tour Wednesday of a solar plant in Fremont, Calif., President Obama warned that there were ''no guarantees'' that BP's latest effort to plug the well would work, but said, ''We're going to bring every resource necessary to put a stop to this thing.'' Mr. Obama called the spill ''heartbreaking'' and said the disaster underscored the need for alternative fuel sources. On Thursday, the president is expected to call for tougher safety requirements for offshore oil drilling and to announce a more rigorous inspections regimen for such operations. He is to travel to Louisiana on Friday to monitor the efforts to contain the spill. $32 Million in Claims Paid BP said it would appoint an independent mediator to oversee damage claims related to the oil spill. BP has paid more than 26,000 claims, for a total of more than $32 million, across the gulf states, including $19.7 million in Louisiana alone, a company spokesman, John Curry, said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Port Fourchon: A Worker shoveling oil from the beach.
Grand Isle: A dead northern gannet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES (LEFT), SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS)
Pass a Loutre: Oil invading fragile marsh (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO/REUTERS)
Chandeleur Islands: Oil creeping to shore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID QUINN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The Deepwater Horizon ablaze on April 21, the day after the oil rig exploded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Douglas Brown, the Deepwater Horizon's chief mechanic, testifying. His lawyers, Steve Gordon, seated, and Jeff Seely, conferred. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GRANGER/TIMES-PICAYUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A20) MAP: Where Oil Has Made Landfall: Since a rig explosion on April 20, oil has been spewing from a deepwater well in the Gulf of Mexico. For the first month, the oil has stayed mostly in the gulf, but in the last week, it has washed onto about 70 miles of Louisiana's fragile wetlands and beaches. (Sources: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 Louisiana state agencies)(MAP BY ERIN AIGNER, HAEYOUN PARK AND ARCHIE TSE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GAS LEAKS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (67%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%); H BROWN LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



685 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sells 20% of Its Citi Shares at a Profit

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
More than a year after bailing out Citigroup, the Treasury Department announced Wednesday that it had begun to sell its stake in the financial giant -- and that the government was turning a profit on its investment. 
 The Treasury sold 1.5 billion shares of Citigroup, or about a fifth of its holdings, at a profit of $1.3 billion. At that rate, the government stands to make about $6.6 billion on its entire investment in Citigroup. After Wednesday's sale, the Treasury owns 22 percent of the company.
 The sale, expected for months, is another milestone on Citigroup's long road to recovery. Last year, the company repaid more than $20 billion in taxpayer aid and ended a federal insurance program on tens of billions of dollars of real estate assets.
 The government is selling its stock piecemeal to avoid disrupting the markets. The first sale returned about $6.2 billion, which means the Treasury sold the stock at an average price of about $4.13 a share. That price may set the bar for future buyers like sovereign wealth funds or big asset managers. 
 Interest in Citigroup's shares has been building steadily for months amid signs the bank is regaining its financial footing. Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, has been forging ahead with plans to streamline the bank's balance sheet and operations. In the last week, analysts at Goldman Sachs and Oppenheimer upgraded their ratings on Citigroup's stock to buy. 
 ''We are pleased that Treasury is making significant progress in profitably selling its common shares,'' said Stephen Cohen, a Citigroup spokesman. 
 Even so, the $4.13 average price the Treasury received for the Citigroup shares was almost $1 less than the price at which the stock traded last fall. Recently, shares of Citigroup and other financial companies have tumbled amid concern that Europe's debt crisis could spread to America's banks and that the overhaul of financial regulations being debated in Washington could take a bite out of bank's profits. Citigroup shares closed Wednesday at $3.83, up 8 cents. 
 Even with the profit from the Citigroup shares, the government -- and taxpayers -- confront significant losses stemming from the sweeping effort to stabilize the nation's financial system in 2008, particularly those related to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants, and the American International Group. About $189 billion, or almost half of the $384 billion distributed under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, has been repaid.
 The Treasury said Wednesday that it now owned about 6.2 billion shares of Citigroup and that it planned to continue to sell its position. Morgan Stanley, which orchestrated the current sale, was retained to run the next one. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vikram Pandit, Citigroup's chief, is trying to simplify operations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); DIVESTITURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (62%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (62%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



686 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Jobs Bill Leaves Some Democrats Leery

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Bernie Becker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The emergence of the escalating federal debt and government spending as a defining political issue is complicating Democratic efforts this week to push through a major package of tax breaks and unemployment aid over the reluctance of Democrats wary of being painted as budget busters.
 House Democratic leaders spent much of Wednesday trying to figure out ways to pare back the measure to attract enough votes for a bill that is chock-full of provisions Democrats would typically embrace -- extended jobless pay, health insurance subsidies for the unemployed, a summer jobs program and a tax increase on wealthy investors. 
 ''We have put together a wonderful bill, and every piece in it can be justified as good public policy,'' said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, a freshman Democrat from Virginia. ''But it is not paid for. Until somebody shows me a path for this being paid for, I am a no.'' 
 Aiming for a vote on Thursday, House Democratic officials said they had agreed to cut the cost of the measure by more than $40 billion by limiting a provision on Medicare fees paid to doctors and extending unemployment benefits through Nov. 30 instead of Dec. 31. Aides said the changes would result in about $90 billion of the measure's overall costs of around $150 billion being branded as emergency spending and added to the deficit -- a level they hoped a majority could swallow.
 Democratic leaders in the House and Senate said they were determined to send the measure to President Obama before leaving on a Memorial Day break, preventing another interruption of extended jobless benefits to out-of-work Americans.
 ''We have huge unemployment,'' said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader. ''We can't leave here unless we address that issue.''
 But the difficulties top Democrats were experiencing in securing votes in both the House and the Senate illustrated the intensifying power of spending as a campaign issue and real concerns among lawmakers about the consequences of the growing debt. 
 It also pointed to problems Congressional Democrats could face in moving a budget and other spending legislation the rest of the year, given nervousness among members of the rank and file who will be on the ballot in November.
 Republicans were trying to exploit that anxiety, noting that the accumulated federal debt was about to breach a record $13 trillion threshold even as Democrats were poised to add more.
 ''This is fiscal recklessness, and even some Democrats are starting to revolt,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Wednesday. 
 Democrats said that the safety-net aid was desperately needed and that the business tax breaks included in the measure, like a popular credit for research and development, would help spur employment. They and their allies pointed to a provision that would limit the ability of American corporations with overseas operations to take deductions for paying foreign taxes, which its proponents said would reduce incentives to shift jobs overseas.
 ''Right now, jobs matter more than deficits,'' Gerald W. McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said at a Capitol Hill news conference. ''And even if the deficit is your top concern, imagine what will happen to it if hundreds of thousands more Americans lose their jobs.''
 The deficit spending debate was also spilling over into Senate consideration of a nearly $60 billion Pentagon measure that was headed toward a key procedural vote on Thursday.
 Senator Tom Coburn, a conservative Republican from Oklahoma, was pushing for spending reductions elsewhere to offset the cost of operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. But most of his fellow senators were not inclined to slow the military spending bill, a fact that Mr. Coburn acknowledged.
 ''I am not saying we should not fund the war,'' Mr. Coburn said. ''What I am saying is that we ought to pay for it by making the hard choices that every family right now is making.'' 
 Republicans have been pounding Democrats on the deficit issue -- a line of attack that infuriates Democrats, who quickly note that former President George W. Bush entered office with a federal surplus and left with a substantial debt that the Obama administration inherited and then added to with its own economic recovery initiatives.
 ''We know the financial hole that this president found himself in November of 2008,'' Mr. Reid said. ''And we know that the experts told us that the only money left in the world was in Washington and we had to spend some of it to stop a worldwide depression.''
 Democrats say they are finding ways to counter Republicans on the spending issue, like the new push for a form of presidential line-item veto and other proposals to force spending reductions. They also say that the effort to prevent jobs from moving overseas through closing tax loopholes resonates strongly with voters and that it was a central element of the winning message in last week's surprisingly strong Democratic House victory in southwestern Pennsylvania.
 Still, Democratic officials say many lawmakers have been getting an earful from constituents back home about the level of federal spending, leading some of the most vulnerable Democrats to push the leadership to cut back the tax-and-social-spending measure or find ways to pay for more of it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%)

PERSON: GERRY CONNOLLY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



687 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 2173 words

HEADLINE: Easy Money, Hard Truths

BYLINE: By DAVID EINHORN. 
David Einhorn is the president of Greenlight Capital, a hedge fund, and the author of ''Fooling Some of the People All of the Time.'' Investment accounts managed by Greenlight may have a position (long or short) in the securities discussed in this article.

 BODY:
ARE you worried that we are passing our debt on to future generations? Well, you need not worry.
 Before this recession it appeared that absent action, the government's long-term commitments would become a problem in a few decades. I believe the government response to the recession has created budgetary stress sufficient to bring about the crisis much sooner. Our generation -- not our grandchildren's -- will have to deal with the consequences.
 According to the Bank for International Settlements, the United States' structural deficit -- the amount of our deficit adjusted for the economic cycle -- has increased from 3.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2007 to 9.2 percent in 2010. This does not take into account the very large liabilities the government has taken on by socializing losses in the housing market. We have not seen the bills for bailing out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and even more so the Federal Housing Administration, which is issuing government-guaranteed loans to non-creditworthy borrowers on terms easier than anything offered during the housing bubble. Government accounting is done on a cash basis, so promises to pay in the future -- whether Social Security benefits or loan guarantees -- do not count in the budget until the money goes out the door. 
 A good percentage of the structural increase in the deficit is because last year's ''stimulus'' was not stimulus in the traditional sense. Rather than a one-time injection of spending to replace a cyclical reduction in private demand, the vast majority of the stimulus has been a permanent increase in the base level of government spending -- including spending on federal jobs. How different is the government today from what General Motors was a decade ago? Government employees are expensive and difficult to fire. Bloomberg News reported that from the last peak businesses have let go 8.5 million people, or 7.4 percent of the work force, while local governments have cut only 141,000 workers, or less than 1 percent. 
 Public sector jobs used to offer greater job security but lower pay. Not anymore. In 2008, according to the Cato Institute, the average federal civilian salary with benefits was $119,982, compared with $59,909 for the average private sector worker; the disparity has grown enormously over the last decade. 
 The question we need to ask is this: If we don't change direction, how long can we travel down this path without having a crisis? The answer lies in two critical issues. First, how long will the capital markets continue to finance government borrowings that may be refinanced but never repaid on reasonable terms? And second, to what extent can obligations that are not financed through traditional fiscal means be satisfied through central bank monetization of debts -- that is, by the printing of money?
 The recent United States credit crisis was attributable in large measure to capital requirements and risk models that incorrectly assumed AAA-rated securities were exempt from default risk. We learned the hard way that when the market ignores credit risk, the behavior of borrowers and lenders becomes distorted. 
 It was once unthinkable that ''risk-free'' institutions could fail -- so unthinkable that the chief executives of the companies that recently did fail probably didn't realize when they crossed the line from highly creditworthy to eventually insolvent. Surely, had they seen the line, they would, to a man, have stopped on the solvent side.
 Our government leaders are faced with the same risk today. At what level of government debt and future commitments does government default go from being unthinkable to inevitable, and how does our government think about that risk?
 I recently posed this question to one of the president's senior economic advisers. He answered that the government is different from financial institutions because it can print money, and statistically the United States is not as bad off as some other countries. For an investor, these responses do not inspire confidence. 
 He went on to say that the government needs to focus on jobs now, because without an economic recovery, the rest does not matter. It's a valid point, but an insufficient excuse for holding off on addressing the long-term structural deficit. If we are going to spend more now, it is imperative that we lay out a credible plan to avoid falling into a debt trap. Even using the administration's optimistic 10-year forecast, it is clear that we will have problematic deficits for the next decade, which ends just as our commitments to baby boomers accelerate.
 Modern Keynesianism works great until it doesn't. No one really knows where the line is. One obvious lesson from the economic crisis is that we should get rid of the official credit ratings that inspire false confidence and, worse, are pro-cyclical, aggravating slowdowns and inflating booms. Congress has a rare opportunity in the current regulatory reform effort to eliminate the rating system. For now, it does not appear interested in taking sufficiently aggressive action. The big banks and bond buyers have told Congress they want to continue the current system. 
 As William Gross, the managing director of the bond management company Pimco, put it in his last newsletter, ''Firms such as Pimco with large credit staffs of their own can bypass, anticipate and front run all three [rating agencies], benefiting from their timidity and lack of common sense.'' 
 Given how sophisticated bond buyers use the credit rating system to take advantage of more passive market participants, it is no wonder they stress the continued need to preserve the status quo. 
 It would be better to have each investor individually assess credit-seeking entities. Certainly, the creditworthiness of governments should not be determined by a couple of rating agency committees. 
 Consider this: When Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner promises that the United States will never lose its AAA rating, he chooses to become dependent on the whims of the Standard & Poor's ratings committee rather than the diverse views of the many participants in the capital markets. It is not hard to imagine a crisis where just as the Treasury secretary seeks buyers of government debt in the face of deteriorating market confidence, a rating agency issues an untimely downgrade, setting off a rush of sales by existing bondholders. This has been the experience of many troubled corporations, where downgrades served as the coup de grace.
 The current upset in the European sovereign debt market is a prequel to what might happen here. Banks can hold government debt with a so-called zero-risk weighting, which means zero capital requirements. As a result, European banks stocked up on Greek debt, and sold sovereign credit default swaps, and now need to be bailed out to avoid another banking crisis. 
 As we saw first in Dubai and now in Greece, it appears that governments' response to the failure of Lehman Brothers. is to use any means necessary to avoid another Lehman-like event. This policy transfers risk from the weak to the strong -- or at least the less weak -- setting up the possibility of the crisis ultimately spreading from the ''too small to fails,'' like Greece, to ''too big to bails,'' like members of the Group of 7 industrialized nations.
 We should have learned by now that each credit -- no matter how unthinkable its failure would be -- has risk and requires capital. Just as trivial capital charges encouraged lenders and borrowers to overdo it with AAA-rated collateral debt obligations, the same flawed structure in the government debt market encourages and therefore practically ensures a repeat of this behavior -- leading to an even larger crisis.
 I don't believe a United States debt default is inevitable. On the other hand, I don't see the political will to steer the country away from crisis. If we wait until the markets force action, as they have in Greece, we might find ourselves negotiating austerity programs with foreign creditors. 
 Some believe this could be avoided by printing money. Despite the promises by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, not to print money or ''monetize'' the debt, when push comes to shove, there is a good chance the Fed will do so, at least to the point where significant inflation shows up even in government statistics. 
 That the recent round of money printing has not led to headline inflation may give central bankers the confidence that they can pursue this course without inflationary consequences. However, printing money can go only so far without creating inflation. 
 Government statistics are about the last place one should look to find inflation, as they are designed to not show much. Over the last 35 years the government has changed the way it calculates inflation several times. According to the Web site Shadow Government Statistics, using the pre-1980 method, the Consumer Price Index would be over 9 percent, compared with about 2 percent in the official statistics today. 
 While the truth probably lies somewhere in the middle, this doesn't even take into account inflation we ignore by using a basket of goods that don't match the real-world cost of living. (For example, health care costs are one-sixth of G.D.P. but only one-sixteenth of the price index, and rising income and payroll taxes do not count as inflation at all.)
 Why does the government understate rising costs? Low official inflation benefits the government by reducing inflation-indexed payments, including Social Security. Lower official inflation means higher reported real G.D.P., higher reported real income and higher reported productivity. 
 Subdued reported inflation also enables the Fed to rationalize easy money. The Fed wants to have low interest rates to fight unemployment, which, in a new version of the trickle-down theory, it believes can be addressed through higher stock prices. The Fed hopes that by denying savers an adequate return in risk-free assets like savings deposits, it will force them to speculate in stocks and other ''risky assets.'' This speculation drives stock prices higher, which creates a ''wealth effect'' when the lucky speculators spend some of their gains on goods and services. The purchases increase aggregate demand and lead to job creation.
 Easy money also aids the banks, helping them earn back their still unacknowledged losses. This has the perverse effect of discouraging banks from making new loans. If banks can lend to the government, with no capital charge and no perceived risk and earn an adequate spread, then they have little incentive to lend to small businesses or consumers. (For this reason, higher short-term rates could very well stimulate additional lending to the private sector.) 
 Easy money also helps the fiscal position of the government. Lower borrowing costs mean lower deficits. In effect, negative real interest rates are indirect debt monetization. Allowing borrowers, including the government, to get addicted to unsustainably low rates creates enormous solvency risks when rates eventually rise.
 While one can debate where we are in the recovery, one thing is clear -- the worst of the last crisis has passed. Nominal G.D.P. growth is running in the mid-single digits. The emergency has passed and yet the Fed continues with an emergency zero-interest rate policy. Perhaps easy money is still appropriate -- but a zero-rate policy creates enormous distortions in incentives and increases the likelihood of a significant crisis later. It was not lost on the market that during this month's sell-off, with rates around zero, there is no room for further cuts should the economy roll over.
 EASY money has negative consequences in addition to the risk of inflation and devaluing the dollar. It can also feed asset bubbles. In recent years, we have gone from one bubble and bailout to the next. Each bailout has rewarded those who acted imprudently. This has encouraged additional risky behavior, feeding the creation of new, larger bubbles. 
 The Fed bailed out the equity markets after the crash of 1987, which fed a boom ending with the Mexican crisis and bailout. That Treasury-financed bailout started a bubble in emerging market debt, which ended with the Asian currency crisis and Russian default. The resulting organized rescue of Long-Term Capital Management's counterparties spurred the Internet bubble. After that popped, the rescue led to the housing and credit bubble. The deflationary aspects of that bubble popping created a bubble in sovereign debt, despite the fiscal strains created by the bailouts. The Greek crisis may be the first sign of the sovereign debt bubble bursting.
 Though we don't know what's going to happen next, the good news for our grandchildren is that we will have to face our own debts. If we realize that our own future is at risk, we might be more serious about changing course. If we don't, Mr. Geithner and others might regret having never said never about America's rating.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



688 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes His Cash-Drawing Power on the Road

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- By the time President Obama flew here on Tuesday for a trio of fund-raisers, he had put in a full day three time zones away in Washington -- meeting with small-business leaders and the president of Italy, sparring with Senate Republicans over lunch, making plans to inspect the gulf oil spill and ordering National Guard troops to the border with Mexico. 
 ''We've got a lot on our plate right now, so I don't travel for just anybody,'' Mr. Obama joked that evening to Democratic donors. ''But when it comes to Barbara Boxer, I'm a lot like many of you, which is, if she calls and she says, 'I need some help,' then we're going to give her some help.'' 
 In fact, aides to Mrs. Boxer, the liberal California Democrat who is a top Republican target as she seeks a fourth Senate term, had been calling Mr. Obama's political advisers since early last year to get the president's commitment to come out west for at least two fund-raisers, in Northern and Southern California, like Bill Clinton did when he was president. 
 ''Last year, we got no sense of when or whether there would be a visit,'' said Rose Kapolczynski, Mrs. Boxer's campaign manager.
 That changed, for Mrs. Boxer and other vulnerable Democrats, once Mr. Obama won his long fight to overhaul health insurance this year. Now he is hitting the donor circuit with greater frequency.
 Having shattered presidential campaign fund-raising records in 2008, thanks to the support he inspired from small and large contributors alike, Mr. Obama is testing whether he can shake the trees as well for other candidates. 
 At the same time, his political advisers zealously guard against diluting the Obama brand, as they see it, and sharply limit other Democrats' use of the Obama campaign's coveted list of more than 13 million grass-roots supporters for their own fund-raising appeals.
 ''He's clearly putting an emphasis on fund-raising now, and the party, I'm sure, is relieved to know that he's on the case now that health care is off his plate,'' said Sheila Krumholz, executive director at the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign finance.
 With Mr. Obama's three fund-raisers here, which raised $600,000 for Mrs. Boxer and $1.1 million for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, he has been the popular draw at 19 such events this year. Not surprisingly in a midterm election year, he is on pace to exceed the 28 he did last year, according to figures compiled by Mark Knoller, a longtime White House correspondent for CBS News who keeps such tallies. 
 The combined 47 fund-raisers since Mr. Obama took office in the midst of a recession have raised an estimated $47 million for Democrats, Mr. Knoller said, although the Obama camp has not disclosed the total proceeds from three events last year to benefit four Congressional candidates and the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for governor in Virginia. Even so, the total would be less than half the $110 million that George W. Bush had raised by this point in his presidency.
 But Democrats grumble that in raising money for them, as for himself, Mr. Obama prohibits donations from lobbyists and political action committees, long the fund-raising base for both parties. 
 ''We make up for it with the large number of new donors that we brought into the process,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''And we have a grass-roots fund-raising capacity that is certainly unprecedented.''
 The grass roots have been stingier, however, than in 2008, which Democrats attribute to the economic downturn, the delays in winning changes in health care and the fact Mr. Obama is not on the ballot. But passage of the health insurance law, Mr. Pfeiffer said, ''excited the grass-roots supporters the way that nothing else has.''
 In the most recent quarter, unlike the previous one, the Democratic National Committee outraised the Republican National Committee.
 Obama advisers initially promised to deliver $50 million for Congressional candidates, but that figure included not only cash but also get-out-the-vote activities they valued at $30 million. Democratic leaders recently pressed for more cash, and the president's political team nudged the package to $52 million, including $25 million in cash.
 With Mr. Obama's appearances at a premium, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been a favorite fund-raiser for Democrats. He has been more popular than the president in blue-collar areas and with certain groups, including Jewish voters. Through July, Mr. Biden will have appeared at 90 events.
 ''He enjoys being on the campaign trail,'' said Jay Carney, the vice president's communications director. Even so, ''the requests for his time exceed the days he has available for such travel.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama in San Francisco on Tuesday to raise money for Senator Barbara Boxer and a Democratic campaign committee.
 Mrs. Boxer, who is seeking a fourth Senate term, is a top target of Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); OIL SPILLS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BARBARA BOXER (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



689 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Advocates of an Immigration Overhaul Question a Border Deployment

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In deciding to deploy up to 1,200 National Guard troops to bolster security at the Mexican border, President Obama has stepped into one of the thorniest issues facing American presidents -- illegal immigration -- and has confounded allies who say he is squandering his chance to address it in a comprehensive way.
 The White House says it is sending the troops solely to combat drug smuggling, a problem highlighted by the recent killing of an Arizona rancher. But any move toward border security invariably raises passions in the immigration debate, and on Wednesday advocates for overhauling the system were questioning the president's intentions. 
 They said that in focusing first on border security, Mr. Obama might be giving up his best leverage for winning approval of broader but more politically contentious steps to address the status of the millions of immigrants already in the United States illegally, and the needs of employers who rely on their labor.
 ''I'm trying to reconcile the stated belief of this president when he was a candidate, what he has said publicly -- as recently as a naturalization ceremony last month -- and what his actions are,'' said Angela Kelley, vice president for immigration policy at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning organization that is a close ally of the Obama administration. ''I think there's a big gap there.''
 Mr. Obama's decision to send the National Guard focused attention on the intense political pressures facing him as he wades into the issue during this midterm election year. Republicans are demanding that he improve border security before they cooperate on an immigration bill. Some moderate Democrats facing difficult re-election races are also demanding tougher action at the border. 
 But Democrats also see an opportunity to win the political allegiance of the fast-growing Hispanic population for years or decades to come if they can handle the issue adeptly. In particular, Democrats are eager to balance support for enhanced border security with an approach that they can contrast to the policies championed by many Republicans, starting with Arizona's new law that gives police a greater role in immigration enforcement.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is trying to generate support for comprehensive immigration legislation in the Senate, said toughening border security would help the broader effort.
 ''Given the fact the problems at the border have turned to become seriously drug related, I think it's necessary and helps comprehensive reform,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''because it shows that Democrats will fight for both parts of the issue.'' 
 In the Senate, Mr. Obama's 2008 Republican presidential rival, John McCain of Arizona, was driving colleagues toward a vote, originally scheduled for Wednesday but then postponed, on a plan to send 6,000 troops to the border. The White House, which has been quietly working on its own plan to send troops, hurriedly released that plan on Tuesday so that Democrats could have an alternative, according to one senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
 Representative Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat who, like Senator McCain, faces a tough re-election race, has been leaning hard on the administration. Two weeks ago, she showed up for a meeting with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano carrying a newspaper article about the Arizona rancher, who was her constituent, and asked that Ms. Napolitano show it to the president.
 ''She tucked it under her arm, and as she left she said she had a meeting with him that afternoon,'' Ms. Giffords said, adding, ''I've been a thorn in the side of the administration, repeatedly calling for the redeployment of the Guard to the area, and I have not backed down.''
 Since the beginning of his presidency, Mr. Obama has been dogged by questions about his commitment to immigration legislation that would provide a path to citizenship for the estimated 12 million people who are living in this country without legal documentation. Other priorities, notably the economy and health care legislation, put the issue on the back burner for the first year of his administration.
 That changed last month, when Arizona enacted its new law, aimed at identifying, prosecuting and deporting illegal immigrants. The measure unleashed immediate protests, and Mr. Obama, speaking at a naturalization ceremony for active-duty service members, condemned it on the day it was signed into law. He called on Congress to take up an immigration overhaul.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama's attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., heard from police chiefs who oppose the Arizona law. The chiefs, representing cities including Phoenix, Tucson, Los Angeles, Houston, Philadelphia and Minneapolis, told Mr. Holder that the law would increase crime, not decrease it, as backers claim.
 The Arizona bill put immigration squarely back on the Congressional agenda, but Mr. Obama has been having trouble persuading Republicans to sign on. During a Cinco de Mayo celebration in the Rose Garden last month, Mr. Obama told an audience of Hispanic leaders that he was determined to pass legislation, but that he could not do so without Republican support.
 The decision to send troops could be an attempt to get that support. At a testy meeting with Senate Republicans on Tuesday, before the White House disclosed its decision about the National Guard deployment, Mr. McCain pressed Mr. Obama on what he was doing to improve border security. Mr. Obama did not reveal his border security plan, but did ask for Republicans' help in passing immigration legislation.
 ''The president told the Republican caucus yesterday that he wants to move forward; he feels that this problem has festered too long and needs a solution,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, adding that the decision to send troops was ''not related to the meeting.''
 Advocates for immigration reform say the two issues cannot be divorced. Clarissa Martinez, director of immigration and national campaigns for the National Council of La Raza, questioned why Mr. Obama would satisfy Republicans' demands for increasing border security without extracting a commitment for comprehensive reform in return.
 ''Republicans keep saying they need to do these things first before they give immigration reform its due,'' she said. ''One could argue that perhaps the White House was trying to say: 'O.K., you're saying this is the impediment to negotiations. Fine, let's remove the impediment and get to the negotiations.' The problem here is, that was not stated. I can't see the strategy in it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: National Guard troops are being sent to the U.S.-Mexico border as a response to drug smuggling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT YORK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); CITIZENSHIP (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



690 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Tenants and Landlords Criticize Paterson's Rent Regulation Proposal

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson proposed changes to housing laws on Wednesday that would make it harder for landlords to lift apartments out of rent regulation but would also override a landmark pro-tenant court ruling so that it could not apply in future cases.
 Under existing rules, landlords of rent-stabilized apartments can begin charging market rates when apartments become vacant and monthly rents hit $2,000. Citing ''a chaotic housing market,'' the governor is suggesting that the cap be raised to $3,000. Mr. Paterson's changes would also reverse aspects of the New York Court of Appeals ruling in 2009 that said the owners of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village had improperly charged market rates on some apartments while receiving tax breaks for making renovations. 
 Under Mr. Paterson's proposal, tenants in those apartments, and roughly 40,000 citywide in similar circumstances, can apply to have their rents reduced in accordance with the ruling. Landlords who consented to the lower rents would not have to pay penalties, as is now the case when a landlord is found to have overcharged a rent-regulated tenant. 
 But the governor's proposal would also rewrite the law to make it clear that landlords could, in the future, charge market rates for apartments once they became vacant and hit the $3,000 threshold, even if they received the tax breaks. The proposal would affect only apartments that were rent-stabilized before receiving the tax breaks; some apartments became stabilized as a result of the tax benefits and cannot be deregulated under the governor's proposal.
 In a conference call on Wednesday, Brian E. Lawlor, the commissioner of the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said the appeals court ''reversed 15 years of what we understood the law to be.'' 
 The governor's proposal, Mr. Lawlor said, was simply restoring ''what everyone in the industry thought that the law was.''
 Lawmakers and advocates for tenants and landlords responded to the governor's suggestions with a mix of mystification, cautious approval and dismay. 
 State Senator Liz Krueger, Democrat of Manhattan, criticized the governor's attempt to allow developers receiving tax breaks to charge market rents. She said the proposal seemed to contradict the Legislature's intent when it wrote the law regarding the tax benefits, known as the J-51 Program. 
 ''The bill's intent appears to be to overturn the determination of the courts that there were serious violations of housing law,'' Ms. Krueger said. ''I don't think that's any kind of solution to the crisis of affordable housing.''
 Tenant leaders were, surprisingly, critical of Mr. Paterson's proposal to raise the so-called vacancy decontrol threshold to $3,000 month. Michael McKee, of the advocacy group Tenants and Neighbors, said the higher cap would do little to slow ''the steady march from protected to unprotected status of our rental housing stock.'' 
 About 300,000 apartments have been deregulated in the past 16 years, he said, and only a full repeal of vacancy decontrol laws would prevent more losses. And Linda B. Rosenthal, a Manhattan assemblywoman who has sponsored a vacancy decontrol bill, said setting a higher threshold would only postpone the loss of rent-stabilized units. ''Three thousand dollars will be a problematic number the way 2,000 is now,'' she said. 
 Joseph Strasburg, the president of the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents 25,000 landlords and building managers, said he, too, was discomfited by the proposed $3,000 threshold, but for different reasons. ''Who's it trying to protect?'' he said. ''If you can pay $3,000 a month in rent, you're protecting people making in excess of $100,000 a year. We don't understand that rationale.''
 Mr. Strasburg did, however, support the governor's proposal that would allow J-51 apartments to reach market rates.
 The governor did receive commendations for addressing rent-protection laws this year, rather than waiting for the current laws to expire in June 2011. 
 About 848,000 apartments in New York City were covered by rent stabilization in 2008, the most recent figures available. Owners of those apartments may raise rents by an amount set by the city's Rent Guidelines Board, often about 3 percent a year.
 Pedro Espada Jr., the Senate majority leader and chairman of the Housing Committee, said he would not support the legislation as proposed.
 Mr. Espada is trying to pass a bill that he said would freeze rents for 200,000 rent-regulated households but that critics say would allow landlords who wrongly removed apartments from rent stabilization to keep the units at market rates. 
 Vito J. Lopez, chairman of the Assembly's Housing Committee, did not return calls requesting comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); APPEALS (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



691 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: California Puts Vote Overhaul On the Ballot

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- In another indication of how frustrated voters have grown with politics as usual, California -- home of initiative-happy democracy -- is considering a radical overhaul.
 On June 8, voters will decide the fate of a ballot measure that would replace traditional primaries in state and Congressional elections with, effectively, two rounds of voting. All candidates would run in the first round, and the top two vote-getters -- regardless of party affiliation, or unaffiliation -- would then face each other in the general election. Voters' ultimate choice could be two Republicans or two Democrats, or two candidates with high name recognition, or deep pockets, or populist appeal.
 Supporters, including Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado, both Republicans, have been promoting the measure -- Proposition 14 -- as a kind of electoral panacea, saying it could encourage political moderates and increase turnout in primaries where hard-line candidates often win. And in a state saddled with a $19 billion deficit, high unemployment and low morale, the promise of new blood in Sacramento seems to be a potent one; the latest polls show the measure favored by a majority of voters, and support growing.
 ''I think people are disappointed in their government,'' Mr. Maldonado said. ''And that's why they are supporting this.'' 
 But political parties hate the idea. 
 ''There is zero evidence to suggest the initiative would have the results its proponents claim,'' said Ron Nehring, the chairman of the California Republican Party. ''We firmly believe that initiative will limit choice.'' 
 Proposition 14 has already performed a miracle, unifying the Democratic and Republican Parties in this polarized state capital. Both have joined a catch-all opposition that includes the state's Green Party, its Libertarians, the American Independent Party, the socialist Peace and Freedom Party, members of the ''birther'' movement, and Cindy Sheehan, the liberal antiwar activist. 
 Small parties, in particular, are unhappy with the proposition, saying it would box them out of general elections, which they say would most likely be populated by better-known and better-financed candidates. 
 ''It's the biggest threat to independent and third parties in the last 50 years,'' said Christina Tobin, who is running for secretary of state as a Libertarian while also campaigning against Proposition 14. ''It would make it far more difficult for minor parties to qualify. '' 
 The truth, of course, is that neither side knows how Proposition 14 might play out; the system being proposed is based on one in Washington, a state with roughly a sixth of the population of California. It has been used only twice, in primaries.
 Under the proposition, all candidates would be listed on a single primary ballot for Congressional and statewide elective offices, including governor, the Assembly and the State Senate. Candidates could list their party preference or no preference. Every voter would be allowed to cast a ballot in the primary, regardless of party, and the top two vote-getters -- even if from the same party -- would advance. 
 The Democratic-controlled Legislature agreed to put the proposition on the ballot last year as part of a deal with Mr. Maldonado, who pressed for a vote in exchange for crossing party lines on a budget deal, which closed a $41 billion deficit. 
 Such systems are not entirely new; California actually adopted a similar electoral method -- a so-called blanket primary that allowed voting across party lines -- in 1996. In 2000, it was invalidated by the United States Supreme Court after a challenge from several political parties. But the ''top two'' system in Washington State was affirmed by the same court in 2008. 
 Mark Baldassare, president and chief executive of the Public Policy Institute of California, a policy study and polling group, said Proposition 14 was just the latest ballot initiative to act as an electoral protest for California voters, including a 2009 measure that put conditions on raises for legislators and other state officials and a 2008 measure that took redistricting power away from elected officials.
 ''There's a desire to find something that you can express your displeasure with the status quo,'' said Mr. Baldassare, whose last poll, released May 19, found 60 percent approving of Proposition 14. ''And this is probably the one this year that voters are focused on as a way to send a message.''
 Regardless of the proposition's intent, electoral experts say its impact is unclear. Paul Gronke, director of the Early Voting Information Center at Reed College, worked to defeat a similar ballot measure in Oregon in 2008. 
 ''I felt like it was snake oil,'' Mr. Gronke said. ''It was like a little carny barker going around saying, 'It's going to cure everything.' ''
 And while supporters say it will increase the number of centrists, Mr. Gronke says it could actually encourage the election of more fringe candidates who manage to make it to the general election. He cited David Duke, the white supremacist, who forced a runoff for the governor's seat in Louisiana in 1991 under that state's electoral system. Louisiana law requires state and local candidates to gain a majority in primaries to win election. 
 ''Extremists could do better in this system because they hold on to their voters very tightly,'' Mr. Gronke said. ''And you let the candidates in the vast middle area duke it out.''
 For their part, Washington election officials say it is too early to make many generalizations about the effect of ''top two,'' other than that it is popular with voters. ''It really fits into our tradition of 'voting for the person, not the party,' '' said David Ammons, a spokesman for Sam Reed, Washington's secretary of state. 
 In California, the measure is being backed by an eclectic roster of businessmen and politicians, including Lewis Wolff, a real estate developer and the owner of the Oakland A's baseball team; Steve Westly, a former Democratic candidate for governor; and John W. Thompson, chairman of Symantec and a supporter of President Obama. 
 Symantec, which makes computer security software, is just one of several Silicon Valley companies that have backed the measure; others include Hewlett Packard, which has put $100,000 into the campaign. Both HP and Mr. Thompson declined to comment on their donations. 
 Allan Zaremberg, president and chief executive of the California Chamber of Commerce, a pro-business group that is backing Proposition 14, said that the ''top two'' system was not geared toward electing any particular party but rather candidates who were ''very concerned with jobs and the economy. ''
 Of course, in a state with more Democratic legislators and members of Congress, a measure that some see as part of a wider national movement against incumbents could result in a more conservative political landscape in California.
 John Burton, chairman of the California Democratic Party, said he feared nefarious intentions were behind the measure. ''It allows one party to play in another party's primary, '' he said, ''and cause mischief. ''
 Eric McGhee, a research fellow with the Public Policy Institute, said a study of open primary systems and California's past experience with ''blanket primaries'' -- the system the Supreme Court invalidated in 2000 -- found that the type of sabotage Mr. Burton posited was not common and that voter turnout had shown a modest increase. 
 That said, Mr. McGhee said the notion of a silver bullet -- however bad the voters of California want one -- was also overstated.
 ''We should not expect this reform to quickly or dramatically change the state's partisan climate,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger are supporting Proposition 14. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



692 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stands Beside an Ally, Eager for China to Join the Line

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- When Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday declared America's solidarity with South Korea in its mounting confrontation with North Korea, she had more than a domestic audience in mind: she was also speaking to the Chinese.
 ''We believe it's in everyone's interest, including China, to make a persuasive case for North Korea to change direction,'' Mrs. Clinton said after meeting South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak. 
 She implored the Chinese to study the 400-page South Korean government report that concluded that the North torpedoed a South Korean warship in March, killing 46 sailors. And she promoted a visit to Seoul on Friday by the Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, which American officials hope will open the door for Beijing's support of a United Nations resolution condemning the attack.
 The American effort to muster Chinese backing for South Korea is emerging as a test case for how the Obama administration handles China, a nation that is more assertive on the world stage, yet possessed of some of the same insecurities and internal divisions that have long preoccupied its leaders.
 While China's decision-making on core foreign policy issues tends to be secretive, American officials said they had picked up hints that there was some disagreement within the leadership about how to respond to North Korea's behavior, pitting civilian party leaders against the military. 
 The debate surfaced last year after North Korea tested a nuclear device, American officials said, and has accelerated since the attack on the South Korean ship, the Cheonan. Chinese civilian leaders have expressed growing puzzlement and anger about the North's behavior, these officials said, while military officials tend to see the North's moves as more defensible given the threat North Korea perceives from the United States. 
 China and North Korea, onetime ideological allies, conduct their relations through their ruling parties. But the two militaries, which fought together against the United States and South Korea during the Korean War, have their own close ties.
 ''There is profound frustration with North Korean behavior and with the way in which it complicates China's own security calculations,'' said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.
 The United States and South Korea, for example, have agreed to conduct joint naval exercises in the waters off the Korean Peninsula. Their troops are working together to increase military preparedness. Japan dropped its resistance to a deal to relocate a Marine Corps air base on the island of Okinawa, driven in part by fears of hostility in its neighborhood.
 These developments were noticed in Beijing, which views them as an impediment to its own ambitions, officials said.
 Recognizing the influential role of the Chinese military, the United States is working to restore military-to-military contacts. They were cut off by China this year after Washington sold weapons to Taiwan, and military officials still seem chilly toward the United States.
 The only discordant note at the American-Chinese meetings, an official said, was a presentation by an officer of the People's Liberation Army, in which he blamed Washington for everything that had gone wrong between the two countries and credited Beijing for everything that had gone right. American officials complained afterward to their Chinese hosts.
 To emphasize the importance the United States places on military exchanges, Mrs. Clinton brought along Adm. Robert F. Willard, the commander of the United States Pacific Command, who met with senior military officials and was introduced by Mrs. Clinton to President Hu Jintao.
 Mrs. Clinton also pushed hard to change China's aloof posture on the Korean standoff. She spent many hours in meetings with Chinese leaders, going over the fine points of the South Korean report and brandishing other evidence of the North's involvement.
 She showered public praise on President Lee to remind Beijing of South Korea's economic heft and strategic importance. And she is trying to corral support from Russia, which has often influenced how China votes in the United Nations Security Council, where both countries hold vetoes.
 It is a formula that administration officials said they used with some success in overcoming China's initial opposition to United Nations sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. But as with Iran, the process is likely to be slow, grinding and prone to setbacks.
 The Iran resolution has taken months longer than the administration would have liked, and even now, China's support is not a sure thing. Administration officials suggested Wednesday that it would make sense to wait for the Iran sanctions to be passed before introducing a resolution on North Korea, to avoid overloading the diplomatic circuits at the Security Council.
 The Chinese have not yet shown any readiness to accept that the North sank the ship. To the extent that they alluded to the crisis at all, it was to appeal for calm.
 Given China's reluctance to single out North Korea, officials said it was unrealistic to expect that Mrs. Clinton could break down their resistance in a couple of days. That is likely to take days or even weeks of talks.
 Meanwhile, the United States signaled that it stood firmly behind President Lee, a former business executive who has the difficult task of responding to North Korea's attack without allowing the situation to spiral out of control. Mrs. Clinton described him several times as statesmanlike.
 ''We will stand with you in this difficult hour, and we stand with you always,'' Mrs. Clinton said during a four-hour stop in Seoul.
 Despite all the hurdles, South Korean officials seemed confident that they would be able to win broad international backing. ''China and Russia, of course, will take time, I'm sure,'' said the foreign minister, Yu Myung-hwan. ''But they will not be able to deny the facts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton held talks with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea in Seoul on Wednesday. (POOL PHOTO BY SAUL LOEB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); KOREAN WAR (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); POLITICS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); RELOCATIONS (62%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (74%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); WEN JIABAO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



693 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'SEX AND THE CITY 2'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Operation Desert Togs

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The first ''Sex and The City'' movie, which came out two years ago, qualifies as a comedy both because it is somewhat funny and because, according to a more classical definition, it ends, after some reversals and delays, with a wedding. The sequel -- which should have borrowed a subtitle from another picture opening this week and called itself ''Sex and the City: The Sands of Time'' -- begins with a wedding and never seems to end. Your watch will tell you that a shade less than two and a half hours have elapsed, but you may be shocked at just how much older you feel when the whole thing is over. 
 The wedding, the characters frequently remark, with the mixture of insouciant mockery and cosmopolitan self-congratulation that seems to have become the hallmark of this weary franchise, is a gay one. Stanford (Willie Garson) and Anthony (Mario Cantone) have made honest men of each other, giving the four main female characters, their male companions and the director, Michael Patrick King, a chance to wink, nod and drag out Liza Minnelli to perform ''Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It).'' Her version is in no way superior to the one in ''Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel,'' and it is somehow both the high point of ''Sex and the City 2'' and a grim harbinger of what is to come. The number starts out campy, affectionate and self-aware, but at some point turns desperate, grating and a little sad.
 Come to think of it, the possibility of sadness, which shadowed this movie's precursor and the long-running HBO series (if not the Candace Bushnell column in The New York Observer that is the source of it all), has been banished this time out. Happy endings, once achieved, cannot be undone. Charlotte (Kristin Davis) and Harry (Evan Handler) are the loving parents of two young daughters. Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) has settled in Brooklyn with her husband, Steve (David Eigenberg), and son, Brady. Samantha (Kim Cattrall) is, as ever, the proudly promiscuous publicist, while Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker) and Big (Chris Noth) dwell in a plushly feathered uptown nest. She's still a writer, he's still a master of Wall Street, and the real-world knocks that their professions have taken barely register outside an occasional pasted-in line of recession-conscious dialogue. (One of which is spoken by Penelope Cruz.)
 Not that everything is perfect. Samantha frets about the onset of menopause, and doses herself with hormones and lotions. Miranda has a mean, sexist boss at the law firm, and Charlotte worries that her buxom young nanny (Alice Eve) may have caught her husband's eye. She's also stressed out by parenthood. 
 Carrie and Big, meanwhile, endure barbed pity from other couples because of their decision to remain childless. ''You mean it's just the two of you?'' a fellow guest at Stanford and Anthony's wedding asks, incredulous. Yes, it is, and after two years the Prestons -- as Mr. and Mrs. Big are more officially known -- may be in something of a marital rut.
 All of which could be perfectly interesting. Good movies have been made of smaller crises, and over the years all of these characters -- Carrie and Big in particular -- have earned and repaid our interest. At its best the series, a swift half-hour at a time, distilled and defanged the world it represented, giving HBO subscribers a fantasy picture of New York they could both aspire and relate to. 
 The clothes were fabulous, the social pressures and professional ambitions intense, the names aggressively dropped, but at the heart of every episode were four friends who, while they could be competitive, judgmental and mean, could also be relied upon when it really counted to be loyal and supportive. Sex was the tease, the city was the packaging, but the real selling point was always the love among those four wonderful women.
 If they seem less wonderful now, it isn't because of slackened effort or diminished charm on the part of the actresses who play them. It is that the movie itself, and perhaps the culture it stands in for, has lost interest and can't figure out what to do with them as they tiptoe toward middle age. Samantha is the exception, but the whole point of her character is a steadfast resistance to change. So Ms. Cattrall dutifully reprises her trademark outrageousness, come-hithering guys of all ages and sponsoring a decadent girls week out in Abu Dhabi.
 Is Manhattan really that over? Maybe it is for Carrie and her friends. Time does not stand still on that island, where the party girls of yesteryear are tomorrow's Ladies Who Lunch. But rather than trying to find a place for Carrie and company on their native ground -- which has shifted a little in the recessionary, politicized interval between the series's heyday and now -- ''Sex and the City 2'' flees into a never-never land that manages to be both an escape from contemporary reality and an off-key, out-of-touch mirror of it. 
 The Emirate to which the four friends repair is an oasis of gilded luxury in a world that has grown a little ambivalent about unbridled commodity fetishism. The longest segment of ''Sex and the City 2'' consists of a drooling, gawking deluxe tour that would not be out of place in a high-end travel magazine or a hip-hop video. Four white Maybachs greet the ladies at the airport. (The production could not obtain four white Maybachs in time for the shoot, so black versions had to be wrapped in white vinyl and delivered to Marrakesh, which stood in for Abu Dhabi.) They are led through ever more lavish rooms, oohing and ahhing at their amazing good fortune, and assuming you will do the same. 
 Maybe. But the ugly smell of unexamined privilege hangs over this film like the smoke from cheap incense. Over cosmos in their private bar, Charlotte and Miranda commiserate about the hardships of motherhood and then raise their glasses to moms who ''don't have help,'' by which they mean paid servants. Later the climactic crisis raises the specter either of Samantha going to jail or the friends having to fly home in coach, and it's not altogether clear which prospect they regard as more dreadful.
 That might depend on the in-flight movie. This one is grueling, especially when the action moves to the Middle East. There are some gestures toward a plot -- a stolen kiss, a lost passport, the appearance of a former lover (Aidan, played by John Corbett) -- but remarkably little happens, even when Samantha runs into trouble with the local mores. 
 The attempt to be both piously respectful of a foreign culture and to stand up for sexual liberation against repressive tradition may be admirable in principle, but in practice it's silly and strained. And the trademark quips, never as witty as they might have been, would be unlikely to make you chuckle even if your best friend said them. ''Inter-friend-tion''? ''Bedouin bath and beyond''? ''Lawrence of my labia''? 
 Yes, it's supposed to be fun. And over the years audiences have had the kind of fun that comes from easy immersion in someone else's career, someone else's sex life, someone else's clothes. But ''Sex and the City 2'' is about someone else's boredom, someone else's vacation and ultimately someone else's desire to exploit that vicarious pleasure for profit. Which isn't much fun at all.
 ''Sex and the City'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has the expected, and not terribly fresh, sexual references and situations.
 SEX AND THE CITY 2
 Opens on Thursday nationwide. 
 Written and directed by Michael Patrick King, based on the television series created by Darren Star and characters from the book by Candace Bushnell; director of photography, John Thomas; edited by Michael Berenbaum; music by Aaron Zigman; production designer, Jeremy Conway; costumes by Patricia Field; produced by Mr. King, Sarah Jessica Parker, Mr. Star and John Melfi; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 27 minutes. 
 WITH: Sarah Jessica Parker (Carrie Bradshaw), Kim Cattrall (Samantha Jones), Kristin Davis (Charlotte York-Goldenblatt), Cynthia Nixon (Miranda Hobbes), John Corbett (Aidan Shaw), Chris Noth (Mr. Big), David Eigenberg (Steve Brady), Evan Handler (Harry Goldenblatt), Jason Lewis (Smith Jerrod), Willie Garson (Stanford Blatch), Mario Cantone (Anthony Marantino), Alice Eve (nanny), and Liza Minnelli and Penelope Cruz.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A film review on Thursday about ''Sex and the City 2'' misstated the title of a song Liza Minnelli performs in the movie. It is ''Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It),'' not ''All the Single Ladies,'' which is a line from the song.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sex and the City 2: From left, Kim Cattrall, Kristin Davis, Sarah Jessica Parker and Cynthia Nixon in this sequel, opening nationwide on Thursday. (C1)
 Sarah Jessica Parker and Chris Noth in ''Sex and the City 2.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MENOPAUSE (74%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Sex and the City 2 (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010



694 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Markets Want Action on European Debt Crisis, Geithner Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON (Reuters) -- The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said on Wednesday that financial markets wanted to see a $1 trillion plan to provide back-up financing for European governments put into action. 
 The fund, provided by the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, aims to provide assistance to euro zone governments if they have difficulty raising debt from capital markets, and was started because of worries that Greece might default on its debt.
 However, it has so far failed to stem a crisis of confidence about economies in the euro zone.
 ''It's a good program,'' Mr. Geithner said, who added that it had ''the right elements.''
 But, ''what markets want to see is action,'' he said at a joint news conference in London on Wednesday with his British counterpart, George Osborne. 
 Washington has been dismayed by how far the Greek crisis has spread to the rest of the euro zone, once again putting the global banking system under threat because of what it regards as a lack of decisive and early action.
 It was the United States Treasury that initiated this month's G-7 emergency conference calls that led to the huge rescue fund for the euro zone, but there is rising concern that this may not have been enough.
 Mr. Geithner will later travel to Frankfurt for a dinner meeting with the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet.
 He then goes to Berlin on Thursday to meet with the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble. Washington has clearly been unhappy with Germany's decision to go it alone in banning some types of speculative trading, as it considers the measures counterproductive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%); GEORGE OSBORNE (52%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); GREECE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



695 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Durable Goods Orders Beat Forecast

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
American manufacturers on Wednesday reported a sharp increase in the durable goods orders in April, and analysts noted that businesses were gradually increasing their investments in equipment, an indication that they remained confident about a recovery. 
 But questions remain on how sustainable any recovery would be without fiscal stimulus programs, given the debt crisis in Europe.
 The Commerce Department said that new orders for durable goods, items like household appliances and business equipment that are expected to last three years or more, rose 2.9 percent in April, beating a forecast of about 1.5 percent. When the volatile transportation equipment portion is stripped away, orders fell 1 percent. 
 Within the report, new orders for nonmilitary capital goods, excluding aircraft, decreased 2.4 percent in April. While down from March, analysts said that taken in conjunction with the two previous months, which showed increases of 6.5 percent and 3 percent, the broader picture suggested an improvement. ''Despite a slight slip back in April, businesses in the last few months have appeared to be increasing their investment, which of course is a sign of a healthy recovery, or returning to health,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist at Capital Economics. ''Over the last three months as a whole, orders are up sharply, and that points to a recovery that is gaining momentum,'' 
 Cliff Waldman, economist for the Manufacturers Alliance, said that the capital goods spending and inventory figures suggested that manufacturers were restocking to support sales generated by fiscal stimulus, but that they were now in a transition period in which their growth must be supported by sustainable domestic and global economic activity.
 ''When things turned around it was predictable you would have a rebound,'' he said. ''Fiscal stimulus has helped with that. But at some point that is all going to wear off.''
 Many economists have pegged manufacturing as crucial to a recovery in the employment market, which added 290,000 jobs in April, 44,000 of those in manufacturing.
 ''If businesses are buying new equipment, often they make the decision to invest in extra work force,'' Mr. Ashworth said. ''It is all linked to confidence and expectations.''
 But there are unknowns, analysts said, including the fallout from the removal of government stimulus, persistent volatility in the markets and the potential for economic turmoil in Asia and in Europe, where countries are dealing with a sovereign debt crisis and public finances are under pressure.
 ''The U.S. economy generally is looking better and better to me,'' Mr. Waldman said. ''But the long term sustainability of this is a little bit of a debate.''
 Over all, the Commerce Department said, shipments were basically flat in April. 
 ''It appears companies are still saving for a rainy day, and who can blame them?'' said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA. ''Clearly the volatility in the markets in May may lead even more companies to delay investment spending.'' 
 Inventory levels increased 0.7 percent in April, suggesting that companies were rebuilding their stock, which could add to growth in the second quarter. But it also raised the question about how much of that will depend on domestic demand.
 ''The trouble in Europe illustrates that the U.S. can't rely on exports to sustain its recovery,'' Mr. Ashworth said. ''Increasingly, however, signs are emerging that private domestic demand might just be robust enough to survive Europe's woes and the removal of the fiscal stimulus, without economic growth slowing too much.''
 Mr. Waldman noted that the Commerce Department report said unfulfilled durable goods orders, excluding transportation, were less than 1 percent through the year to April. That could be a sign that the recovery is still emerging, and raises questions about how sustainable demand is.
 ''If I want to gain confidence in the sustainability of the output recovery I would like to see more pressure on demand than that,'' he said. ''
 The report on the manufacturing front was accompanied by another large gain in sales of new homes in April as buyers rushed to sign contracts before government tax credits expired.
 The Commerce Department said sales of new single-family homes jumped 14.8 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 504,000 units. The April gain followed a 29.8 percent increase in March.
 Activity in both months was pushed higher by buyers trying to sign sales contracts before tax credits expired on April 30. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DURABLE GOODS (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); NEW ORDERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



696 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; THE GIMLET EYE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: For Planners, The Party Never Ends

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
PAGES fly off calendars, as in old movies. Months blur into one another. Seasons collapse. Yes, Memorial Day is just around the corner. But in the life of a professional party planner, summer is just a place holder on the events horizon, a false lull between the benefit season that winds down this week and the one that cranks up again immediately after Labor Day.
 For the men (and they are all men) who dominate the planning of New York's A-list benefit parties -- David Monn, Bronson van Wyck, Raul Avila, David Stark -- the rental chairs have barely been packed up, the quaking aspens sent back to wherever rented shrubbery comes from before the meetings begin again for all tomorrow's parties. Shaking money out of rich people's pockets, never easy, has become more challenging since the economy went south.
 It is not enough, if it ever was, to put some potato chips on a window sill and expect New Yorkers to flock to a big-ticket wingding. The tricks of the trade get more complex all the time. ''You can't just push the bushes around,'' said William Norwich, who has observed society for decades from his perch as a Vogue contributor and former gossip columnist. 
 Event planning has always called for stagecraft, psychological abilities bordering on witchcraft and also killer contacts. You don't get far in the business unless you have friends with benefits. Connections, of course, were a key element in the late Robert Isabell's long spell as the king of high-end New York parties. Yet increasingly, said Chad Kaydo, the editor in chief of BizBash, an industry journal, the boards of strapped charities are scouting out planners with the ability to do more than set pretty tables with even prettier flowers. ''They have to stay on message and stay within budget,'' said Mr. Kaydo, referring to the boards from the array of nonprofits -- New Yorkers for Children, the Robin Hood Foundation, the Whitney, the Frick -- whose events crowd the autumn social schedule.
 That is to say that the days of orchids glue-gunned to curly willow branches and passed off as drifts of lilac may be over. Tableaux vivant featuring models impersonating figures in Old Master pictures are as dated as the cash-fat 1980s. Unlike a lot of stuff from that benighted decade, stunts like these are unlikely to be revived.
 Instead, one finds benefit parties decorated with drifting tendrils of paint strips or else walls upholstered in Post-its or centerpieces constructed from 18,000 donated pencils later to be passed along to schoolchildren. One finds 6,000 tons of recycled waste paper used to create fantasy decors. One does, that is, if David Stark is involved.
 Mr. Stark, 41, is a former painter who trained at the Rhode Island School of Design and the School of Visual Arts in New York. As is true of many New Yorkers, the gig he created to underwrite his vocation eventually took over his working life. ''For about the first 10 years, I kept telling myself this was my side job for my painting,'' said Mr. Stark, who also served time as a florist and as a waiter in a variety of hot restaurants.
 He said this one very early morning last week at the Manhattan Center on West 34th Street, as he and his team put finishing touches on a transformation of that cavernous but grim space into something that resembled a curtained anteroom to heaven (or limbo, depending on your thoughts about Turner Entertainment, which had booked the space for its upfront presentation of next season's shows). ''When I finally realized I was really doing this, it occurred to me that I could make my life much easier by hiring some people and buying a van,'' Mr. Stark said, as a security guard trudged across the imported lemon-yellow carpet, leaving a trail of scuffs.
 ''Oh, well,'' Mr. Stark said.
 What distinguishes Mr. Stark's efforts from those of his competitors, said Nancy Novogrod, the editor in chief of Travel & Leisure magazine (to which this columnist has contributed) and a member of the board of the American Academy in Rome, is that a Stark party often resembles a kind of installation art. ''His work is conceptual and it's a little bit making fun of all the elements that connote luxury and glamour,'' Ms. Novogrod said. ''It's upending things a bit.''
 She meant that literally. For a 2008 benefit dinner celebrating the Cooper-Hewitt Museum's annual design awards, Mr. Stark constructed a vaguely surrealist interior that used ordinary party rental materials to create a setting suggestive either of Disney's ''Fantasia'' or else a prom after a hurricane. Ballroom chairs flew through the air. Rainbow seat cushions were cantilevered into arches. Colored tablecloths wafted over the customary folding tables. Beneath them were suspended samovars ''pouring'' colored pompons. All of this is documented in ''David Stark Design,'' a just-published monograph (The Monacelli Press, $40) about Mr. Stark's forays into the New York night.
 ''You certainly don't have to worry about knocking over the topiaries'' at a Stark-designed party, Ms. Novogrod said. And to a certain extent, charity board members who hire Mr. Stark are also liberated from worries about poor rankings on watchdog sites like Charity Navigator, which tracks the fiscal health of 5,000 charities, rating them according to criteria like ''Drowning in Administrative Costs.''
 ''There's a desire on the part of clients to make decisions that are appropriate to our times,'' Mr. Stark said on a warm afternoon last week at his drab Carroll Gardens studio, within sight of the onramp to the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. Inside the two-story structure, Mr. Stark and people from his 24-member crew were busily building props like laser-cut gates of gold Plexiglas for a summer wedding in Turkey; flowers die-cut and fashioned from disused books to be sold next autumn at West Elm stores; paper leaves that will one day cascade from cardboard trees.
 ''Yes, we do drop-dead beautiful weddings,'' said the designer, who routinely takes on bill-paying bar mitzvahs like one he staged recently in a New Jersey suburb with a carnival theme that included bumper cars and a ride called the Spider.
 But in the scheme of things, and in a marketplace so competitive that four professionals scramble for the same 15 events, such stuff is humdrum. Mr. Stark is not looking to reinvent the Ferris wheel. ''It's much more engaging to create something special,'' out of ordinary and recycled materials, he said, ''than sitting around reacting to someone saying, 'Let's have a lovely pink-and-brown party.' ''
 Thus already in May people like him are thinking about September, calculating for the moment in the fall season when ''gala fatigue'' inevitably sets in and planners are called on to summon up serious magic. ''Coming up with another perfect combination of peonies and lilacs is a recipe for perpetual boredom,'' he said.
 ''We're in a period now that was not happening even 10 years ago, where cultural institutions are aligning the mission of the institution with what the fund-raising experience is like,'' Mr. Stark said. He paused then, considering perhaps how that kind of statement might easily set off a stampede at a charity gala, sending people running for the exits in their Christian Louboutins. ''I try to take a sly wink at all the seriousness, but with the utmost seriousness,'' he added. ''I challenge the assumption that a party is a neutral experience, but I also remember that it's supposed to be fun.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2010, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Thursday with the Gimlet Eye column, about party planners, reversed the references to photos of a fund-raising event designed by David Stark and the Metropolitan Museum Costume Institute Ball, by Raul Avila. Mr. Stark's party was on the right; Mr. Avila's, at left. The pictures can be seen at nytimes.com/fashion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON MESSAGE: David Stark says he prefers ''to create something special'' from the ordinary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E1)
INVENTIONS: Decor at a state dinner at the White House, above, created by David Monn
left, a tornado of sneakers at a fund-raiser, part of the design by David Stark
and right, inside the Metropolitan Museum Costume Institute Ball, by Raul Avila. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS
SUSAN MONTAGNA
 EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (77%); BUDGETS (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); WITCHCRAFT (65%); WRITERS (65%); CHILDREN (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



697 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Score: An Edge to Friendly Confines

BYLINE: By SEAN FORMAN. 
Sean Forman is the creator of Baseball- Reference.com, an online baseball encyclopedia of players, teams and box scores in the major and minor leagues.

 BODY:
In major league baseball from 2000 to 2009, the home team won 54 percent of the time. Many cite the home team's last at-bat as the reason. At the end of games, the thinking goes, the home team can tailor its strategy to match the situation. If the team is down by three runs, it can play for the big inning. If it needs one run, it can use small-ball strategies like bunting and base stealing to get that run.
 If only it were true. Recent research has found that having the last at-bat is not a statistically significant advantage. Three professors - Theodore Turocy, the data manager for the Society for American Baseball Research and an economist at East Anglia University in Norwich, England; and Stephen Shmanske and Franklin Lowenthal, professors at California State University, East Bay - have used simulations and examined data to debunk this myth. 
 Instead, the home-field advantage in baseball has to do with a more mundane reason: familiarity with the ballpark. This comes through in extra-base hits. Because baseball fields do not have a consistent outfield shape, size or turf, outfielders have adjustments to make between parks. Among balls hit into the outfield, home teams have more hits, especially triples and inside-the-park home runs.
 We can also look at the home-field advantage of newly opened ballparks. There have been 25 ballparks with a full season of play that have opened since 1980. Surprisingly, the home-field advantage in their first year is only 52.3 percent, but that number steadily rises through the fourth season, to 55.1 percent. Only in the fifth year, as opponents' comfort rises in the ballpark, does it begin to drop, to 53.3 percent. It appears that the home team has to learn the stadium itself and then has a significant advantage until the rest of the league catches up in four to five years.
 Both the Mets and the Yankees got off to fast starts in their new stadiums last season, winning about 14 percent more games at home. And this season, though it is young, the Mets have soared at Citi Field, with an 18-9 home record compared with 6-14 on the road going into Thursday night's game against the Philadelphia Phillies.
 Another factor in home-field advantage is distance traveled. Last fall, Matt Swartz of Baseball Prospectus published a five-part study on home-field advantage corroborating the effect of familiarity and also finding that the longer the distance traveled, the larger the home-field advantage.
 On the question of distance traveled, Swartz did not find a difference between the road team's play in the first and last games in the series. In fact, road teams played worse in the middle games of the series. Perhaps teams suffer from jet lag early in the series and homesickness at the end of the series and both in the middle of the series. No one is quite sure of the reason, but the effect appears real.
 There may be one group of ballplayers, however, who benefit from going on the road - those with newborns. Melvin Mora and his wife, Gisel, had quintuplets on July 28, 2001, while Mora was a starting outfielder for the Orioles. From that date until the end of the 2002 season, Mora hit .254 on the road and .205 at home.
 This is a more compete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Mets, who won again at home Thursday, have been doing far better at Citi Field (19-9) than on the road (6-14). (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: No Place Like Home: Winning percentages for home teams in the four major sports from 2000-9.
BATTING RUNS LEADERS
E.R.A. LEADERS
 SIMPLE RATING SYSTEM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); STATISTICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); NEW YORK METS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



698 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: City Slickers Take to the Crops, With Song

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
IT was prime growing weather on Shelter Island, N.Y., as a breeze blew in from Dering Harbor, and Bennett Konesni was tending to his field of dreams: three neatly planted acres of bok choy, cauliflower, kale, Asian mustard greens, spinach, garlic, lettuce, onions, potatoes and leeks, with room for the peppers, eggplants and 15 varieties of tomatoes soon to be transplanted. Coming to a plot of leafy snap peas, inspiration struck. Suddenly he erupted in a full-throttle rendition of ''Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley Grow'': ''Do you, or I, or anyone know/How oats, peas, beans and barley grow?''
 For the record, Mr. Konesni, part of a thriving crop of young American farmers, does.
 Was anyone listening to his impromptu serenade? Who cared? 
 This is how work gets done on Sylvester Manor.
 For the past couple of summers, the manor has resounded with music as Mr. Konesni, a scholar of work songs, has pushed his family's ancestral estate into the next era with the help of some strong-voiced volunteers.
 Now a nonprofit educational enterprise, the manor is among the New York-area farms attracting locavores, green-minded students and urbanites suffering from nature-deficit disorder who yearn to raise produce and livestock for a day, a week or longer.
 ''There's this incredible boom right now,'' Mr. Konesni said, ''a broad and deep interest in creating vibrant local food communities and the landscapes that go with them.''
 Scott Chaskey, the farmer-poet who oversees Quail Hill Farm in Amagansett, N.Y., where Mr. Konesni apprenticed in 2001, said he had worried that his volunteer and community-sponsored agriculture programs might flag with the economy -- only to see the demand grow.
 And the six-year-old volunteer force at the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture in Pocantico Hills, N.Y., is steadily increasing, drawing participants from Manhattan, Brooklyn, Westchester County, Connecticut and New Jersey, said Jill S. Isenbarger, the center's executive director.
 ''People are really interested in getting their hands dirty and experiencing nature, if you will, through farming,'' Ms. Isenbarger said. ''For some folks, it's a way to apply what they learn through us and take that back to their own communities or gardens.'' 
 Others, like the New York City couple whose five-year plan involved trading in real-estate development for a chicken farm, want to sample the lifestyle before making a midcareer change.
 ''Of course,'' Ms. Isenbarger added with a laugh, ''come the first 95-degree day out in the fields, a lot of people rethink it.''
 Time was when Shelter Island -- 8,000 acres nestled between the North and South Forks of Long Island -- belonged to the Sylvester family, who settled here in 1651 as part of an English and Dutch consortium that supplied produce, livestock and oak barrels to the sugar trade in Barbados. 
 Worked by indentured and enslaved Africans and American Indians until 1827, the manor shipped cheeses, hams and candles to New London, Conn., and Rhode Island ports as early as the 1740s. In the 19th century it was home to Eben Norton Horsford, considered the father of modern food chemistry and the inventor of the first calcium phosphate baking powder.
 The property, whittled down over the years to 243 acres, has been overseen since 2007 by Mr. Konesni, 27, a great-great-great-great grandson of Horsford and the 15th generation of the Sylvester family to call the manor home. 
 On this balmy afternoon Sylvester Manor was abuzz -- with workers and insects -- though no one seemed to be rethinking anything. 
 Out in the Windmill Field, named for the 1810 wind-powered gristmill that once ground grain into flour, Gunnar Wisseman, the longtime caretaker, was tilling sod in preparation for planting clover, the better to squeeze out quack grass and poison ivy. 
 Down the road at the 1735 Georgian mansion, Edith Gawler, an architecture student and fiddler who is Mr. Konesni's fiancee, was staffing the office, which oversees volunteer and education programs. (A banjo-making course is scheduled for June 7 through 12, and a work song workshop for June 17.)
 Inside the barn, Zoe Wonfor, an intern from Calgary, Alberta, and John Costa, an M.B.A. student from Antioch University New England in Keene, N.H., had returned from the greenhouse and were now counting seeds.
 And at the movable chicken house, Brooklyn schoolchildren examined eggs, while Araucana, Silver Speckled Hamburg and Naked Neck breeds pecked at their feet.
 Volunteers may apply for short-term slots -- normally, a day or two -- by e-mail, to manorvolunteers@gmail.com Those who would like to stay longer must submit an application and have a series of interviews.
 Mr. Costa, a native of Bangladesh, had been lured to Sylvester Manor by a shared interest with Mr. Konesni in bringing the arts into sustainability, he said. A student of capoeira, the Afro-Brazilian practice that combines martial arts with music and dance, he balked at capoeira's singing requirements. But although the bashful Mr. Costa had been there for only a day, Mr. Konesni had already introduced him to the farm's unwritten tenet: you work, you sing. 
 In 2005 Mr. Konesni was awarded a Watson Fellowship to travel the globe for a year and learn work songs from Ghana, the Netherlands, Mongolia, Tanzania and Switzerland. He has since woven his musical gleanings into the tapestry of the manor, whose earliest laborers might have sung some of those same tunes while toiling in its fields.
 Songing, as Mr. Konesni calls it, ''is not about being a professional singer,'' he said. ''The Swiss call it juuz, which means erupting into joyful noise.''
 ''It may not turn work into play, exactly, but it makes it more tolerable and ultimately more profitable,'' Mr. Konesni explained, noting that the rhythm and momentum created by singing in unison help workers cope with physical exertion and tedium.
 ''Sometimes we end up singing what's on Long Island's Top 20,'' Ms. Wonfor admitted. ''Lady Gaga is really popular out in the field.''
 ''Paparazzi'' in the potato patch?
 Though Mr. Konesni's repertory ranges from slave anthems to a form of Swiss yodeling used to communicate with livestock, the point, he said, is to get through the work -- the beating sun, the back-breaking kneeling and bending, the bugs -- while having fun.
 ''We're hoping to make a successful farm, a farm that is effective and self-sustaining, and encourage a culture of food that is joyful and fair,'' Mr. Konesni said. ''We're shaping the world around us in a way we love.''
 IF YOU GO
 Farms that welcome volunteers:
 SYLVESTER MANOR, 80 North Ferry Road, Shelter Island, N.Y.; (631) 749-0626, manorvolunteers@gmail.com, sylvestermanor.wordpress.com. 
 STONE BARNS CENTER FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, 630 Bedford Road, Pocantico Hills, N.Y.; (914) 366-6200, stonebarnscenter.org. 
 QUAIL HILL FARM, Deep Lane, Amagansett, N.Y.; (631) 283-3195, peconiclandtrust.org/quail--hill--farm.
 HONEY BROOK ORGANIC FARM, 260 Wargo Road, Pennington, N.J.; (609) 737-8899, honeybrookorganicfarm.com.
 SHELBURNE FARMS, 1611 Harbor Road, Shelburne, Vt.; (802) 985-8686, Ext. 327, shelburnefarms.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Connie Migliazzo, in the far left photo, and Zoe Wonfor, left, are among those helping at Sylvester Manor, a farm on Shelter Island overseen by Bennett Konesni, below, a scholar of work songs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); REAL ESTATE (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



699 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: First-Quarter Growth Revised Down a Bit

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States economy expanded at a slower rate in the first quarter than originally estimated, the Commerce Department reported Thursday, partly because of a slight decrease in the pace of consumer spending. 
 But the status of the recovery still hinges on the prospects for job growth, analysts said.
 The revised measure of the overall economy grew at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 3 percent in the first quarter, down from the earlier estimate of 3.2 percent, the department said. Economists had forecast growth of 3.5 percent.
 ''The economy is still showing above-trend growth in the first quarter and we think the economy is continuing to grow,'' said Michael Feroli, the United States economist for JP Morgan Economics. The 3 percent growth follows 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009 and 2.2 percent in the third.
 One contributing factor to the revision was consumer spending, which was lowered to 3.5 percent from 3.6 percent. Other factors in the revision included a decline in the purchases of business equipment and software and a sharp increase in imports, which helped widen the trade deficit. Spending on durable goods, like cars, grew 12.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with 0.4 percent in the previous three months. 
 With more than 70 percent of the economy composed of consumer spending, economists are pinning their hopes for a sustainable economic recovery on robust buying by households, much of which depends on consumer sentiment and job creation. 
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR, said that the latest gross domestic product figures confirmed his view that the economy was growing at a moderate pace, albeit aided by government stimulus. Mr. Shapiro said he expected overall annualized growth of 2.5 to 3 percent for the rest of the year. 
 The biggest debate, he said, is over the path of the recovery of the labor market and how it helps consumers to promote growth. ''An enormous amount hinges on the rate of job growth that we are going to see on a sustained basis,'' he said. The economy added 290,000 jobs in April, the largest gain in four years, in a broad swath of industries. 
 Still, the Labor Department said on Friday that initial jobless claims fell slightly to 460,000 in the week of May 22, down by 14,000. While the weekly level exceeded analysts' expectations, total jobless claims still inspired a sober outlook.
 ''We continue to believe that an imminent and sustained burst of hiring sufficient to meaningfully impact the unemployment rate remains elusive,'' Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a research note.
 The latest job figures have been inflated by the hiring of temporary workers for the census, and Mr. Shapiro said those workers would continue to add to payrolls in the next few months.
 The first-quarter G.D.P. rate also showed downward revisions of government spending. Federal government spending grew at an annualized rate of 1.2 percent in the first quarter, down from the original estimate of 1.4 percent. Local and state governments continued to cut spending for the third consecutive quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



700 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TIPSY DIARIES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: The Bartender of Your Dreams

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
My mother had eyes in the back of her head; Doug Quinn must have them in the palms of his hands. How else to explain the way he muddled mint for a mojito -- and went on to make the rest of the cocktail -- while glancing alternately at the door to see if anyone new was coming in, at the far end of the bar to see if anyone was telegraphing thirst, and at the guy in front of him, who was babbling anew about something or other? Not once did Mr. Quinn look down at the drink. It was like bartending in Braille.
 He filled beer mugs without watching what he was doing. He could apparently tell, by the weight of them, when to stop. He plucked bottles from their perches without pausing to check labels. He apparently had, in his head, the whole liquor layout at P.J. Clarke's, on the East Side.
 And he remembered what my companion and I were drinking, even though we had ordered just one round so far, and there were at least 35 people clumped around the bar on this early May night, and he was dealing -- alone -- with all the tickets from all the servers in the adjacent dining rooms, and he wasn't writing anything down, not that I could see. 
 ''Another?'' was all he asked, and a half minute later I had a Hendrick's gin martini, up, with olives and jagged little floes of ice, just like the martini before it. My companion was sipping a second Manhattan with rye, not bourbon, per his initial request. Mr. Quinn works quickly, and he works without error.
 It is legend, this efficiency of his. I learned of it one night at PDT, a faux speakeasy in the East Village -- secret entrance, abundant taxidermy -- that's about as far in spirit (and spirits) from the blunt, timeless rough-and-tumble of P. J. Clarke's as you can get. I asked Jim Meehan, the cocktail shaman there, whom he and other celebrated young mixologists of the moment looked up to.
 Without hesitation he named Mr. Quinn, 42, and not because Mr. Quinn had pioneered some clever infusion or paired two ingredients no one had thought to pair before. Mr. Quinn, he said, did right by the classics and could handle (and coddle) a teeming crowd. He had speed, stamina, dexterity, personality and an awe-inspiring memory: the essentials of bartending, without which the cheeky chemistry is meaningless. Mr. Quinn was the bartenders' bartender.
 Dale DeGroff, arguably the city's dean of mixology, told me that if he's not away on business, he drops in on Mr. Quinn at least once a week, often past 2 a.m., when bartenders getting off work elsewhere congregate at P. J. Clarke's -- the original one on Third Avenue at 55th Street, not the spinoffs near Lincoln Center or at the World Financial Center. It serves food until 3 a.m. and drinks until 4 a.m., the legal limit, and isn't as jammed in the wee hours as it is between 6 and 11 p.m.
 ''You're not going to get a yuzu gimlet from the guy,'' Mr. DeGroff said. ''Ain't going to happen. But you're going to get a damned good martini.'' 
 Mr. DeGroff actually prefers Glenlivet on the rocks, and said that a freshly made one will be waiting for him by the time he walks from the entrance to a barstool. More than that, he knows that if there's someone at the bar whom he might enjoy talking to, Mr. Quinn will figure that out and make it happen, a master of human mixology above all.
 You need to see him in action, not least because his 126-year-old stage is one of the city's classic bars, what he calls ''the Vatican of saloons,'' a living diorama of a certain era and sensibility, with its penny-tile floors, carved mahogany bar, tin ceiling and stained-glass transoms. 
 Other servers there wear white shirts with dark neckties; Mr. Quinn wears pastels, sometimes with French cuffs and cufflinks, and always, always with a vividly colored bow tie -- it's his thing, plus a bow tie never flies up, flaps around or otherwise slows him down. A forelock of his hair, glistening with product, usually dangles low across his brow. He should be in a carrel at Oxford.
 Or on a cricket field there. Along with the coordination of an athlete, he has the build of one: 6 feet 2 inches, broad-shouldered, trim. He has been known to leave P. J. Clarke's after his 6 p.m.-to-4 a.m. shift, which he works Monday through Friday, and hit the 24 Hour Fitness club nearby before heading to the Upper East Side, where he lives with his wife and their sons, ages 5 and 3.
 He grew up in Rockland County, majored in economics at Vassar, began bartending before graduation and never stopped. He popped up behind the bar at P. J. Clarke's in 2003, when it reopened after a meticulous restoration.
 It's a lucrative gig. On many nights about 500 customers will cycle through, and while there are stretches when he has help, there are also stretches when he doesn't. Most customers have more than one drink. Virtually all leave tips.
 But to talk to him -- as I did after two stealth visits when I merely drank and watched -- is to know that money isn't his main thing. He's testing himself. Performing. Making people marvel at him. Making people love him.
 ''When they come here, they're in my home,'' he said. ''They're in my church.''
 He packs a double-wide opener so he can flick the lids off two beer bottles at once. When smoking was allowed, he carried 10 lighters, because some would get wet and some lost, and he didn't want to lose a second or a step by having to fetch another.
 But being armed and agile isn't the half of it. ''A great bartender will get you a date for the evening, get you a job and get you a new apartment,'' he said.
 He is proudly anachronistic, calling female customers ''doll,'' ''darling'' and ''baby,'' a term of endearment he also uses for male customers, along with ''brother'' and ''man.''
 Of course he met his wife, an advertising executive, when he was behind the bar. ''She was probably one of the most beautiful women who ever set foot in here,'' he said. ''She couldn't take her eyes off me. She'll tell you I hit on her.''
 He certainly proceeded to, dispatching a barback to a nearby bodega to fetch a dozen roses for her the third time she came in. For a while she resisted his requests for a date, but then she brought her mother around. Showtime.
 ''Usually, I put the hook in someone's mouth,'' he said. ''I had the hook in her mom's belly.''
 He said there aren't any cheats or tricks to his memory, which one P. J. Clarke's regular, a trial lawyer named Paul Hanly, described to me as ''canny, totally uncanny -- truly as photographic as it gets.''
 He will brighten or dim the lighting if he senses the need, and he will nix Neil Diamond's ''Sweet Caroline'' if the jukebox starts to play it when the bulk of the crowd are in their 20s and 30s.
 But he has boundaries. ''I try to teach people how to behave in a saloon,'' he said. ''Don't ask for a Red Bull and vodka. You want an energy drink? I have coffee.''
 P. J. Clarke's: WHERE: 915 Third Avenue, at 55th Street, Midtown Manhattan. Also downtown at the World Financial Center, 250 Vesey Street, and on the Upper West Side at Lincoln Square, 44 West 63rd Street. MORE INFO: pjclarkes. com.; The Tipsy Diaries is a new column about the city's drinking life that will run every other week. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Doug Quinn at P. J. Clarke's. He has speed, personality and an amazing memory. (C21)
 Doug Quinn on a recent Friday. ''When they come here, they're in my home,'' he said. ''They're in my church.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%)

COMPANY: P J CLARKE'S (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



701 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Does Little To Slow Migration

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
MANILA -- The world may be staggering through its worst economy in 70 years, but international migration, an ever-growing force, shows few signs of retreat.
 Globally, the number of migrants appears undiminished, and last year they sent home more money than forecasters expected. Many migrants did lose jobs, but few decided to return home, even when others offered to pay. 
 In some places, demand for foreign labor grew.
 From the Arizona Statehouse to Calabria, critics warn that porous borders hurt native workers, threaten local cultures and increase crime. But even a downturn of rare magnitude did less than expected to slow the flows, revealing instead the persistent forces that keep migrants venturing abroad. 
 Perhaps no place shows the lure of migration as much as the Philippines, a nation of nearly 100 million people, where a quarter of the labor force works overseas. Despite the world's sagging economy, the country set records last year for the number of workers sent abroad and the sums they returned. 
 ''We hardly felt it -- the global financial crisis,'' said Marianito D. Roque, the labor secretary, who has been promoting the virtues of Filipino workers from Alberta to Abu Dhabi.
 On every corner of this jeepney-jammed capital, someone seems to be coming from or going to a job overseas. At the Magsaysay Training Center, beside Manila Bay, college graduates scrub replicas of cruise ship cabins, hoping for housekeeping jobs that can pay four times the local wage. A park across the street doubles as a sailors' bazaar, a reminder that the Philippines supplies at least a fifth of the world's seafarers.
 In government seminars a mile away, throngs of outbound maids learn to greet future bosses in Arabic, Italian and Cantonese. Some cry through a film about a nanny who wins an overseas job but loses the love of her children.
 Doctors go abroad to work as nurses. Teachers go to work as maids. Would-be migrants set off sparks at the Tesda Women's Center, where the government offers free training to female welders.
 One of them, Desiree Reyes, 29, spent three years assembling computers in Taiwan until the recession idled the factory. Back home, she heard that Australia needed welders and paid up to $2,500 a month, about 10 times her Manila wage.
 ''I want to go abroad again, and they're saying that women welders have more opportunities,'' she said.
 Elsewhere on campus, women learn to fix cars, sew skirts and set banquet tables. Posters celebrate alumnae overseas. (''Marjury Briones is now working at the Pars Hotel in Bahrain as a flair bartender.'')
 With soft features, Ms. Reyes looks more like a cosmetics clerk than an industrial trainee. But she likes the sight of molten metal and ignores the burn marks on her hands. ''I don't think of it as man's work -- it's just work,'' she said. ''Life in the Philippines is tough.''
 The financial crisis follows an age of growing mobility that has scattered migrant workers across the globe. Polish nannies raise Irish children and Indians build towers in Dubai. Of 15 million American jobs created in the decade before the bust, nearly 60 percent were filled by the foreign born, according to a report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. To be sure, the crisis has hurt migrants, often disproportionately. A report by the Migration Policy Institute found that in the past three years, joblessness grew by 4.7 percentage points among native-born Americans, while rising 9.1 points among immigrants from Mexico and Central America.
 Anti-immigrant feeling in some places has swelled, at times to the point of violence. South African riots in 2008 killed dozens of African migrants, including many Zimbabweans. In Italy, attacks on African farm workers this year brought condemnation from the pope.
 But with few exceptions, the hard times have not sent migrants home. Spain, Japan and the Czech Republic tried to pay foreign workers to go, but found few takers. Likewise, the number of Mexicans leaving the United States has not grown, said Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center. While the economy and tightened borders have reduced new arrivals, he said, the total population of Mexican migrants remains unchanged.
 Hania Zlotnik, director of the United Nations Population Division, said, ''Worldwide, the crisis has slowed the growth of migration, but the number of migrants is still increasing.'' 
 There are many reasons. Some ''receiving'' countries have escaped recession, especially in the Middle East. Some ''sending'' countries have been hit hard, giving migrants more reason to leave or stay away. Even in bad economies, migrants typically do work that others avoid, like picking crops or cleaning toilets. 
 And many migrants move for noneconomic reasons, to join spouses or parents. That helps explain why migration, once established, is hard to reverse.
 Still, even scholars who have long studied these dynamics expected the battered global economy to have done more to deter migration. ''It is the resiliency of international migration flows that again is most striking,'' wrote two migration scholars, Stephen Castles of the University of Oxford and Mark J. Miller of the University of Delaware, in an April paper.
 To grasp the tenacity of migrants, consider Fortz Portagana, 58, a Filipino who moved to Oman in 2006 to start a small shipping business. When the economy swooned, ''I had it in my mind to go back -- but what can I do back home?'' he said.
 He had exhausted his savings to go abroad, and returning empty-handed to his small farm would mean a loss of face. Instead, he borrowed from relatives with jobs in the Middle East, cut expenses and continued to send home $200 a month.
 When business improved, he hired one son and found a job for another. A cycle that began with one migrant worker in Muscat ended with three. ''This is a better place for them to make a living,'' Mr. Portagana said.
 Migrants from the developing world sent home $316 billion last year, according to the World Bank. That was 6 percent less than the previous year, but more than the bank predicted, and $80 billion more than migrants sent as recently as 2006. Since private investment fell much more, the relative importance of the migrants' money grew.
 While remittances to Mexico took an outsize hit (16 percent over two years), the Philippines offers a contrasting model of overseas work. 
 Mexicans are closely tied to one place (the United States), and one industry (construction). Filipinos work across the globe in dozens of occupations. Mexican migration is unmanaged and mostly illegal. Filipino workers are promoted by the state, and most go with contracts and visas. 
 Mr. Roque has spent his career selling Filipino labor, and as the economy slowed he stepped up his marketing. He won agreements with four Canadian provinces, which took thousands of temporary workers, including nurses, nannies, and coffee shop workers. In Saudi Arabia, a construction boom brought more jobs in the building trades. In 2008, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo made a plea to the emir of Qatar for more work visas.
 Despite the downturn, annual deployments of workers rose by a third over the past two years, to 1.4 million. The sums they sent home rose 19 percent, to $19.4 billion, according to the World Bank. ''People were projecting a doomsday scenario,'' Mr. Roque said. 
 The Magsaysay Training Center in Manila feels less like a vocational school than a theme park of migrant trades, filled with replicas of foreign work sites.
 Student sailors in a simulator room steer ships through high-tech storms. Student bakers in toques practice cream puff injections. A glass wall offers a view of a luxury hotel room, where instructors watch trainees wipe the marble bath and stock the minibar.
 Brynnerson Cepe, 25, beamed as he bustled about in a crisp gold uniform. He spent four years earning a college degree in hotel and restaurant management and three years as a Starbucks supervisor. But in the hierarchy of Philippine status and pay, the real upward movement would come from making a hotel bed overseas. ''You can earn double or more,'' he said. ''And you can get other opportunities.''
 The social costs of migration -- abused workers, adultery, abandoned families -- are widely recognized here, even as poverty persuades many people to leave. 
 Last month, the government brought home four planeloads of distressed workers from the Middle East. Some had lived for months in Philippine Embassies after running away from abusive bosses. They arrived to a scene of manufactured festivity. 
 A parade of maids wore matching T-shirts, donated by a corporate sponsor. President Arroyo, who calls migrants ''heroes,'' arrived to shake hands. A Filipino comic did a routine, leaving television cameras to capture the laughter of the dispossessed.
 Ivy Lumagbas, 31, said she did not know whether to laugh or cry. She had gone to Dubai because her husband was jobless and her children hungry. The conditions were so bad -- one meal a day, she said, and four hours of sleep -- she barely lasted a month. But she was already saying that she might have to go back. 
 ''When I see how many of us there are, I feel hopeless'' about getting work at home, she said.
 Then she joined in waving a Philippine flag and singing the national anthem, which celebrates the ''chosen land'' so many feel they must leave.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Desiree Reyes, a welding trainee at the Tesda Women's Center
a stress management class at a Manila office of the Overseas Workers Welfare Administration, a Philippine government agency
a sailors' bazaar with want ads for seamen
a culinary class at the Magsaysay Training Center. (A4)
 Last month, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo greeted Filipino workers returning from countries in the Middle East. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JES ASNAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOTEL STAFF (70%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (69%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); CRUISES (64%); NURSES & NURSING (62%); COSMETICS (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



702 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Plea Deal for Owner of H & H Bagels

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The owner of HH Bagels on the Upper West Side pleaded guilty on Thursday to grand larceny for cheating on his company's taxes. 
 The owner, Helmer Toro, a co-founder of the business, admitted in State Supreme Court in Manhattan that he had withheld more than $330,000 in payroll taxes from his employees that he did not turn over to the state as required.
 Mr. Toro, 59, also admitted, according to a plea agreement, to transferring his companies to shell entities to get a lower rate of unemployment insurance tax.
 In exchange for his guilty plea, Mr. Toro is to serve 50 weekends in jail and pay more than half a million dollars in restitution. He will be sentenced on July 22. 
 Mr. Toro would have faced up to 15 years in prison had he gone to trial and been convicted. The plea agreement allows the state's Department of Taxation and Finance to go after Mr. Toro for unpaid taxes, interest and penalties.
 ''Under no circumstances can employers gain in business by cheating their employees,'' Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, said in a statement. ''The city's businesses must adhere to ethical standards and contribute to the tax revenue of the city and state, as well as protect their employees' interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLEA AGREEMENTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (55%); ETHICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



703 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Ford Is Hoping to Give the Once-Great Explorer a Second Life

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- When sport utility vehicles ruled America's roads in the 1990s, the Ford Explorer was king, rolling off dealer lots by the hundreds of thousands every year.
 But in the era of higher gas prices and eco-consciousness, the Explorer has flopped. During last year's cash-for-clunkers program, more Explorers were tossed in the scrap heap than any other model, by far. 
 With sales a small fraction of those in the glory days, executives at the Ford Motor Company seriously considered burying the Explorer alongside the likes of the Escort and Thunderbird, once-great nameplates that outlived their usefulness. 
 Instead, the Explorer is getting a second life in 2011 as a more fuel-efficient crossover. Ford, emerging from the recession with considerable momentum, is betting that shoppers will be more willing to check out its new and revamped models than a few years ago, even an Explorer that Ford intends to market as a sport utility vehicle.
 It is a move with some risk, auto analysts say, on at least three fronts. First, reviving nameplates that have greatly faded is a difficult task in the auto industry, where bad memories are often long-lasting. 
 Second, pouring resources into the Explorer breaks with Ford's much-heralded strategy of focusing on vehicles with global scale and appeal, and finally, the jury is out on whether even North Americans are ready to re-embrace the sport utility vehicle in significant numbers.
 ''The vast majority of people don't need a four-wheel-drive, off-road-capable truck,'' said Aaron Bragman, a product analyst with the research firm IHS Global Insight. ''Americans still like that go-anywhere idea, but traditional S.U.V.'s have that negative image.''
 Ford intends to market the Explorer heavily around its fuel-economy ratings, something it never did before, both because the numbers were so low and because few buyers cared. In the past, Explorers had an average rating of about 15 miles per gallon. Though Ford is being tight-lipped about the specifics of the 2011 model, the most efficient version is expected to get about 28 miles per gallon in highway driving, the best in its segment.
 ''The fuel economy itself will be a message,'' Ford's head of marketing, James D. Farley, said in an interview.
 Ford says its research shows that the Explorer still has a place in an increasingly crowded and competitive market, though the company has no aspirations of recapturing the model's past market share. Nothing on the market today is as popular as the Explorer was in the heart of its 10-year run as the nation's best-selling S.U.V.; sales peaked at nearly 450,000 in 1998. Only 52,190 were sold last year.
 Still, Ford says four million people still own an Explorer -- more than six million have been sold since its introduction two decades ago -- and the new version could post big numbers and profits for Ford if even a fraction of those past customers decided to upgrade. 
 In addition to the new Explorer's considerably higher fuel economy, Ford is hoping to entice those customers by transforming the boxy and rather simplistic-looking vehicle into a sleeker, car-based crossover with high-tech features.
 ''Everyone who owns one of those four million Explorers right now, as they're driving them around, most of them love the vehicle but they also feel like they're sacrificing, whether it's image or fuel economy,'' Mr. Farley said. ''We can offer them something where they don't have to feel that way anymore.''
 It is a tricky marketing challenge, analysts said: Ford must overcome the model's deep-seated reputation as a gas guzzler while not alienating consumers who still want the capabilities of a full-blown S.U.V. 
 To that end, Ford plans to characterize the new Explorer as an S.U.V., even though it technically will not be an S.U.V. because it no longer uses the traditional body-on-frame architecture of that segment. (It is built on the same underpinnings as the Taurus, a full-size sedan.)
 At the same time, if Ford delivers on the promise of improved fuel economy, the new model's rating would be 25 miles per gallon in highway driving, with an optional EcoBoost engine increasing mileage even more. 
 ''If it's up in that range, it will probably allow the vehicle to clear a hurdle and put it back on the consideration list for some people,'' said James Bell, executive market analyst for Kelley Blue Book.
 Yet for past customers, Mr. Bell said, ''I can't imagine that their original Explorer experience was so phenomenal that they're just dying to get back in one.''
 The new, seven-passenger Explorer is roughly the same size as the outgoing model, though slightly shorter and wider. Among its new features is a series of touch screens, which Ford is introducing throughout much of its lineup starting this year, inflatable rear seat belts and a ''terrain management'' system to enhance its off-road driving abilities.
 The Explorer, scheduled to go into production near the end of this year, will be one of several models assembled at Ford's plant in Chicago, where Ford is adding 1,200 jobs and investing $400 million. 
 Just a few years ago, with Ford running low on cash and S.U.V. sales plummeting as gasoline surged to more than $4 a gallon, Mr. Farley and his colleagues were not sure they wanted to save the Explorer.
 The company was plotting its future around an array of small, fuel-efficient cars that could be sold around the world, and the Explorer did not fit any of those criteria. But internal research convinced Ford that its lineup at North American dealerships would have a sizable void without the Explorer, even though the vehicle has virtually no audience in Europe and Asia.
 And the company has had some success in reinventing brands: Ford brought the Taurus name back from the dead, and the Explorer itself has battled adversity before, after a string of fatal rollover crashes caused the recall of millions of Firestone tires a decade ago.
 ''It's not going to light the world on fire; it's not going to be even a faint shadow of what it once was,'' Mr. Bell said. ''But if they can build it in a profitable way at vastly smaller volumes, then I think it can contribute.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Derrick Kuzak, vice president for global product development at Ford, inspects the interior of an Explorer prototype.(B9)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (71%); MARKET SHARE (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



704 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Costco Profit Rises 46% as Sales Grow 12%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Costco Wholesale Corporation said Thursday that its quarterly profit rose 46 percent as shoppers began buying nonessential items, driving sales up 12 percent.
 Costco said it earned $306 million, or 68 cents a share, up from $210 million, or 48 cents a share, a year earlier. Adjusted for special items in each period, the profit rose to 66 cents a share from 53 cents. 
 Revenue in the period, which ended May 9 and was the third quarter of Costco's fiscal year, rose to $17.78 billion from $15.8 billion. Membership fees, which are part of the revenue figures, rose to $395 million from $329 million.
 ''I think if there is a silver lining to this horrible economy over the last year and a half, it is that the warehouse clubs and us in particular are the extreme value proposition,'' said Richard A. Galanti, Costco's chief financial officer. ''People are shopping with us more frequently than they used to.''
 Profits matched, and sales exceeded, analysts' estimates. Shares of Costco, which is based in Issaquah, Wash., rose $2.76, or 4.9 percent, to close at $58.74 on Thursday. 
 Costco said it had more business from everyday consumers and businesses like small restaurants, which helped keep the bulk of the company's business in food. But small luxuries like patio furniture sold out quickly while television sales slumped.
 Mr. Galanti said shoppers were coming in more often but average spending per visit fell slightly. Shoppers are buying more food and necessities and fewer televisions than last year, he said, but that is somewhat offset by sales of housewares, exercise gear and other discretionary items.
 ''My view is we've got them coming in more frequently, and it is not like they're buying it somewhere else,'' he said on Thursday. ''And when they start buying it, they are buying it at us.''
 Sales at stores open at least a year grew 10 percent. Excluding the impact of higher gas prices and changes in currency exchange rates, they rose 4 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Costco is selling more food and fewer TV sets, like these at a Mountain View, Calif., store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); CURRENCIES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (94%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



705 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: The Earth's Secrets, Hidden in the Skies

BYLINE: By DANIEL N. BAKER. 
Daniel N. Baker is a professor of astrophysical and planetary sciences and the director of the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics at the University of Colorado at Boulder.

 BODY:
BOULDER, Colo.
 ONE of the greatest advances in space technology has been the military's Global Positioning System satellites, which provide remarkably accurate navigation information for everything from smart phones and cars to pet collars. 
 But the navigational data is only one part of the program's mission. The Nuclear Detonation Detection System, an array of sensors also on board the satellites, watches the world for nuclear explosions. In the process, it collects mounds of environmental data which, in the hands of climate scientists, could add greatly to our understanding of global warming. 
 Unlike the G.P.S. information, however, much of the detection system data is hidden behind bureaucratic walls by national security agencies, which treat it as classified, even though it isn't, and even though there's no compelling national security reason to do so. 
 The history of the G.P.S. system shows the impact satellite data can have on commercial and scientific progress. Since it was first made publicly available in the 1980s, G.P.S. has revolutionized industries from telecommunications to agriculture. Estimates place its economic value in the tens to hundreds of billions of dollars each year. And that's not counting its impact on everyday activities like hiking, boating and golf. 
 Then there's the science: using the G.P.S. radio waves that travel through the earth's atmosphere, researchers can better understand its temperature, density, water content and other properties, data that is critical to work on climate change and pollution. 
 Meanwhile, in the process of watching for a nuclear detonation, the detection system's sensors -- designed to observe visible light, high-frequency radio waves, X-rays, gamma rays and other data that might point to a nuclear explosion -- stream an amazing array of data on powerful lightning strikes, space hazards like meteoroids and man-made debris and severe solar and space weather events. 
 It's a daily trove of scientifically useful data that is not duplicated by any other sensor systems, military or civilian. True, other agencies collect similar data; sadly, it's not nearly as comprehensive or global as the detection system's information. 
 Unless a nuclear explosion takes place, the data has no immediate relevance to national security. Yet bureaucratic inertia has kept in place the presumption that because some of the data might be sensitive, all of it has to be protected; as a result, a thicket of paperwork and procedures deters all but the most resourceful and patient scientists from gaining access to it.
 Making the data more available would be remarkably simple. The Departments of Energy and Defense, which operate the satellites' detection functions, should apply the same standards used for G.P.S.: All but the most sensitive data is disseminated automatically, so that anyone in the world can tap into the flow of information beaming down from the satellites.
 Opening this data would have many benefits. It could, for example, improve meteorologists' ability to monitor destructive weather like ''super'' thunderstorms, hurricanes and solar storms, which can disable the electric power grid. 
 It would also allow scientists and engineers at national laboratories like Los Alamos, Sandia and Lawrence Livermore to greatly expand their research on climate change and other critical topics. While some scientists can already get access to the data, current restrictions mean they can't easily share it. Making the data truly public would allow full peer review of their findings, leading to higher-quality research. 
 Much as America's scientific leadership and policy of open inquiry did wonders for its prestige during the cold war, making most of the detection system data available to the global public would show friends, allies and adversaries that the United States is willing to use even its most advanced defense assets for the betterment of humanity.
 American taxpayers support a truly remarkable monitoring system whose information could significantly improve our health, security and well-being. We should use this hidden treasure to make the world a better and safer place.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GUIDO SCARABOTTOLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE RESEARCH (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); WEATHER (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



706 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Defying Blockade, Cargo and Passenger Vessels Head for Gaza

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel was preparing Thursday for a showdown with a flotilla of up to nine vessels carrying hundreds of pro-Palestinian activists and thousands of tons of supplies headed for Gaza, the Hamas-run coastal enclave. It was the most ambitious attempt so far to break Israel's maritime blockade of Gaza. 
 The flotilla of cargo ships and passenger boats, led by the Free Gaza Movement and a Turkish organization, Insani Yardim Vakfi, converged at sea from a number of countries over the last 10 days. 
 Israel, which says it allows basic supplies into Gaza through points along the land border, denounced the flotilla as a political provocation and has vowed not to let the boats reach Gaza. It has invited the flotilla to land at an Israeli port, Ashdod, instead.
 Gaza has been under an Israeli- and Egyptian-imposed blockade since Hamas, the Islamic militant group that does not recognize Israel's right to exist, took over the territory by force in 2007. Israel, the United States and the European Union classify Hamas as a terrorist organization. The activists said the boats, which were expected to reach the coast sometime this weekend, were carrying 10,000 tons of cargo including cement, school supplies and medical equipment aimed at easing the hardship in Gaza. 
 Maj. Gen. Eitan Dangot, the Israeli military's chief liaison with the Palestinian-controlled territories, said Israel's policy was very clear. Briefing a group of foreign reporters in Tel Aviv this week, he said that Israel had offered the activists the chance to unload their cargo at Ashdod. Israel, he said, would be willing to transfer it, after inspection, to Gaza. But he added, ''We will not allow ships to come to Gaza while Hamas is in control there.'' 
 In a news statement issued by Israel's Foreign Ministry this week, Sarah Weiss Maudi, the ministry's expert on maritime and humanitarian law, said the maritime blockade was in force ''because Israel is currently in a state of armed conflict with the Hamas regime'' in Gaza. Hamas, she continued, ''has repeatedly bombed civilian targets in Israel proper with weapons that have been smuggled into Gaza by various routes, including the sea.''
 Israel was preparing to intercept the boats and divert them, if necessary, to Ashdod. Large tents and other facilities have been set up at the port to receive the activists, who number up to 800 and include public officials. An Israeli Arab lawmaker was aboard one of the boats. From Ashdod, the activists will either be voluntarily deported or detained. 
 The approaching flotilla has set off a public-relations war regarding the situation in Gaza. 
 General Dangot and other Israeli officials insist that no humanitarian crisis exists. Anticipating the bad publicity that was bound to accompany the arrival of the boats, the military and the Foreign Ministry published detailed reports this week of the almost 100,000 tons of supplies that Israel says it has allowed into Gaza this year. Israel says the importing of cement and iron has been greatly restricted because Hamas uses those materials to manufacture rockets and bunkers. Nevertheless, it has allowed some building materials for about a dozen infrastructure projects supervised by international bodies. Many additional goods are smuggled into Gaza through tunnels running under the border with Egypt.
 In a sarcastic e-mail message to reporters this week, Israel's Government Press Office recommended a high-end restaurant in Gaza, the Roots Club, attaching the menu and a link to its Web site. ''We have been told the beef stroganoff and cream of spinach soup are highly recommended,'' the office said. The restaurant would, of course, be out of reach for most of Gaza's 1.5 million residents. Israeli military officials put unemployment there at almost 40 percent.
 International organizations active in Gaza paint a bleaker picture. A United Nations Development Program report published on Sunday determined that about three-quarters of the damage caused by Israel's military offensive in Gaza in the winter of 2008-9 had not yet been repaired. And a report by the United Nations humanitarian coordinator blamed the blockade for ''suffocating'' the agricultural sector in Gaza and said that insufficient food was now a problem in more than 60 percent of households. 
 The Free Gaza Movement has organized at least four aid voyages since the summer of 2008, usually consisting of one or two vessels. The earliest ones were allowed to reach Gaza. Others have been intercepted and forced back, and one, last June, was commandeered by the Israeli Navy and towed to Ashdod.
 In other developments, police officers in Jerusalem on Thursday arrested two ultranationalist Israeli activists after they hurled insults at the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, as he toured the Old City with his family, a police spokesman said. Angry at what they view as the Obama administration's anti-Israel policies, right-wing activists had been waiting to confront Mr. Emanuel, who was in Israel on a private visit to celebrate the bar mitzvah of his 13-year-old son. 
 One of the arrested ultranationalists, both of them well-known provocateurs, could be heard yelling, ''Shame on you, You hate Israel'' and ''Traitor,'' according to Agence France-Presse. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Israeli soldier Thursday in a tent that was set up in Ashdod to receive pro-Palestinian activists trying to reach the Gaza Strip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR COHEN/REUTERS)
 The naval police in Gaza City on Wednesday made preparations for the arrival of a flotilla carrying activists and supplies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALIL HAMRA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); CRUISES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SMUGGLING (75%); DEPORTATION (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (63%); RELIGION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



707 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Dorm Rooms With Bragging Rights

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN and DAVID WALTER; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As college-bound seniors look forward to the dorm rooms they will call home next fall, it is a good bet that many have no idea just how steeped in history their future homes are.
 A search of archival records at several universities reveals how easy it is to share a little turf with Michelle Obama at Princeton or Anderson Cooper at Yale, if one is enterprising.
 The first lady had a single room at 224 Pyne Hall on the Princeton campus long before she moved into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
 ''I've been hoping she would stop by for old times' sake,'' said Andrew Gross, a music major who spent the past year in the room. He said he got the 168-square-foot room to the annoyance of a friend behind him in line, who wanted it ''really badly.'' 
 ''It was actually a point of contention,'' Mr. Gross said.
 Nearby are rooms that were home to two former presidential contenders, Bill Bradley (who lived at 41 Little) and Adlai E. Stevenson (33 Holder ).
 The four freshmen living in Stevenson's old digs have it festooned with Mardi Gras beads and decorated with posters for ''The Notebook'' and Death Cab for Cutie. They said they did not know who Stevenson was but were impressed when they were told he ran for president in 1952 and 1956.
 ''I just love how at Princeton, there's just famous people in every place,'' said one of the freshmen, Sabina Hlavaty, of Rockville, Md.
 ''I wonder if one of us will be famous one day,'' said Marjie Lam, of Stow, Mass., who is one of Ms. Hlavaty's roommates.
 Of course, not all fame is the good kind. Eliot Spitzer, who resigned as governor of New York after a prostitution scandal, shared a suite at 83 Spelman in a newer section of campus. Designed by I. M. Pei, Spelman Hall features large picture windows that may have given the future governor an early taste of life in a fishbowl.
 Gregor Schubert, an economics major from Leipzig, Germany, who called 83 Spelman home this year, said he did not mind the way the windows let the world see in. ''I don't think I have anything to hide while I'm eating my breakfast,'' he said.
 But his neighbor at 81 Spelman, Mandy Lee, said she understood how the space was not for everyone. ''Some people don't like it,'' she said. ''They feel their privacy is intruded upon.''
 Those drawn more to business than politics also have some decent options. Malcolm Forbes, the high-flying businessman, lived at 65 Blair. Carl C. Icahn, the corporate raider, lived at 621 Cuyler. Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, spent her junior year at 211 Walker. Her room might have some added draw, since she is seeking a second act as California's next governor.
 For those who prefer their celebrities to be the celluloid kind, Yale has the actor Paul Giamatti's room at C52 Vanderbilt. In addition, Anderson Cooper's old room at the university was D11 Durfee.
 At Fordham University in the Bronx, the eight students who ended up with E6 at Martyrs' Court in 1983 learned that they had inherited the third-floor suite once occupied by Alphonso Joseph D'Abruzzo, later known as Alan Alda. As big fans of his hit television show, ''M*A*S*H,'' they thought it only fitting to hold a party the night of the final episode with makeshift tenting and drinks poured from an improvised still. Everyone from the BBC to The New York Post was there to chronicle it.
 ''I went once to the University of Virginia, and they had Edgar Allan Poe's old dorm room blocked off with glass so you could see it but not use it anymore,'' said Joe Trentacosta, a host of the farewell party. Being able to live in the famous room, he said, ''makes you feel more connected to the school.''
 Anyone wanting to live in Mr. Alda's room now would need an engineer's help to find it. Seven double rooms numbered L200 to L206 have displaced the eight-man suite. But the shared bathroom and old plumbing are intact.
 (There is no point looking for traces of a heartthrob from Fordham's class of 1977, Denzel Washington. University officials confirmed that he commuted.)
 With some exceptions, addresses of former students can often be gleaned from the directories, yearbooks and phone records found in college archives. But many addresses are no longer valid.
 Colleges often tear down or renovate buildings in an effort to provide the latest amenities, in a departure from the days when they offered their best rooms -- perhaps those with fireplaces, indoor plumbing or room for a servant -- only to those who paid extra. And preserving the past is not always the highest priority. 
 ''They are hugely hesitant to do this because once it becomes a thing, they have to preserve it, and people get upset if they want to renovate it,'' said Michael Weishan, a landscape designer who is donating his services to help Harvard restore some historic rooms that happened to survive.
 There are also security concerns. ''You can understand why there would be a concern about individuals in the public reading a story and thinking they could come to campus to visit a dorm room where a famous person lived,'' Emily Aronson, a Princeton spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail message.
 So Yalies can still aspire to live in the building that was home to a future president, George H. W. Bush, at 1275 Chapel Street in New Haven. But if they prefer Cole Porter, who wrote many of Yale's fight songs a century ago, his old haunts on York Street and Haughton Hall are nothing more than distant memories.
 Princeton, too, sings of ''Going Back,'' though it turns out, you often cannot. Eager to bed down where James Stewart, the Hollywood legend, slept when he was part of Princeton's class of 1932? Dream on. His freshman year home, at 8 North Reunion Hall, was razed. John F. Kennedy, the future president, also briefly bunked at Reunion.
 Sports fans might be just as disappointed to learn that the part of the West College building at Princeton that once housed Moe Berg, a major league catcher whose linguistic dexterity made him a valuable World War II spy, is now in the admissions office.
 And do not bother searching for former Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld's previous home, 423 Brown. It is now a women's restroom.
 Princeton's latest emissary to the Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor, lived at 164 Little. But the entryway that led to it has vanished, making the room's whereabouts as mysterious as Brigadoon.
 Supreme Court junkies might fare better if Elena Kagan, a member of Princeton's class of 1981, makes it onto the court. Records show she lived at 215 Princeton Inn, which appears to have been rechristened 215 Forbes College. 
 ''I had no idea that I was in any way connected,'' said David Mendelsohn, a sophomore from Rockville Centre, N.Y., who had that room this year.
 Francis Sloat, a volunteer on a committee that seeks to preserve Princeton's heritage, does his best to keep up. He began compiling a spreadsheet about four years ago that now includes the names of hundreds of famous alumni and their former addresses. He said he created the list at the behest of a group that furnishes tours of the campus. The student ambassadors wanted to greet new arrivals in their dorms with icebreakers like, ''Oh, by the way, did you know F. Scott Fitzgerald roomed there?''
 (For the record, Fitzgerald's former address, 15 University Place, would these days be considered off campus.)
 Mr. Sloat said he steered clear of calling his list an official roster of notables lest ''somebody's ego gets bruised'' for being left off. He added, ''I was kind of surprised at some of the sensitivities.''
 His spreadsheet, a work in progress whose existence has been closely guarded on campus, captures notables like James Madison, a founding father from the class of 1771, and Jeffrey P. Bezos, a founder of Amazon.com from the class of 1986.
 It even includes a matter-of-fact category called ''Black Sheep,'' which lists Lyle Menendez of the class of 1992. Convicted, along with his brother, Erik, of killing their parents at their Beverly Hills home, Mr. Menendez has been living at Mule Creek State Prison in Ione, Calif., of late. Current Princeton students might want to steer clear of his old room on campus at 123 Walker.
 To those who feel sheepish about sleepwalking through college without finding out whose important footsteps they followed, here is another shot at vicarious glory. The two-bedroom suite with the paw-foot tub and pull-chain toilet that Franklin D. Roosevelt rented more than a century ago at Harvard is no longer used for student housing.
 But much like the dorm room that John F. Kennedy eventually had his senior year at Harvard's Winthrop House, which guests of the university's Institute of Politics have enjoyed free for some time, Roosevelt's suite will also be made available to special guests of the university. Starting this fall, visiting scholars, university guests and others who obtain university permission can rent Roosevelt's suite for $150 a night.
 The suite has been outfitted with period reproductions and artifacts, thanks to the restoration efforts of Mr. Weishan, the landscape designer, and it still has the high ceilings that Roosevelt cooed over to his mother. With her blessing, he and a chum paid close to $500 to rent the place for the 1900-1 school year. It was a pretty penny, considering that Harvard charged $150 or so a year in tuition at the time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Holly Linneman, top, Marjie Lam, Lisa Han and Sabina Hlavaty lived in the Princeton dormitory room once occupied by Adlai E. Stevenson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
 The halls of Yale, housing the famous and not-so-famous. (THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (56%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (50%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



708 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Out of Uniform and Out of Work, and Seeking a Break in a Tough Civilian Job Market

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Ample of girth, his scalp gleaming beneath a thinning thatch of hair, Alex De Francis stood out in the small sea of veterans that filled a Midtown hotel ballroom on Thursday. 
 They were all there for a veterans' job fair, and while many were young, Mr. De Francis was 61. He left the military in 1972, after a tour of duty in Vietnam, before many of his fellow job seekers were born. He became a New York City police officer, worked in construction until jobs dried up last year, and spent the past eight months e-mailing his resume to recruiters who never wrote back. 
 Which is how Mr. De Francis found himself at the New Yorker Hotel, his tie neatly knotted by his daughter, his shoes polished to a high shine. While thousands of active sailors and Marines in town for Fleet Week were enjoying the city's tourist attractions, Mr. De Francis and hundreds of fellow veterans were starting from scratch, hoping their military service would afford them a foothold in an unforgiving employment market. 
 The job fair was organized by RecruitMilitary, a 12-year-old company founded by a former Marine that produces about 70 such expos a year. The recession has hurt veterans and nonveterans almost equally: the most recent Department of Labor figures show that the jobless rate for both hovers just above 9 percent. 
 Veterans tend to have qualities that can at once help and hinder them in their search for employment. Recruiters at the expo said veterans tend to be more organized and driven, and to feel drawn to a higher calling. But for newer veterans especially, figuring out what kind of civilian work best suits them can be daunting, even paralyzing. 
 ''When I ask them what they want to do, a lot of them say, 'Anything,' '' said Arthur Bass, an employment coordinator with the New York office of the Department of Veterans Affairs, who was at the expo.
 By the time it opened at 11 a.m., veterans were waiting by the dozens in the carpeted hallway outside the door, folders thick with resumes tucked under their arms. The women, vastly outnumbered, were largely dressed in blazers and skirts; most of the men wore crisp suits, with American flags or aviation wings pinned to their lapels. Inside, 40 or so exhibitors stood beside tables lined with key chains, pamphlets, bags of chips and pens. 
 There were recruiters from Citigroup, and from a New Jersey cemetery maintenance company -- ''We're recession-proof,'' a company executive said -- and from a midsize mattress and pillow company in Connecticut that has hired about 15 veterans in the last year. ''They're ethical, they're trained, they work with diligence and respect,'' said the pillow company's human resources manager. 
 The most popular stop was the Federal Bureau of Investigation's table, where an agent told veterans to apply online. Representatives were also there from assorted colleges and the French Culinary Institute, which offers new veterans, who can use G.I. Bill benefits, a 15 percent discount on tuition. 
 Into the bustle stepped two friends, Vincent Perez, 24, and Luis Garcia, 23, who met two years ago while building a forward operating base in southern Iraq, and who later learned that they were both from New Jersey. Their tour ended last June, and their transition back into civilian life has been a little rocky. 
 After five years in the Army, Mr. Garcia, who was a cavalry scout, is studying criminal justice at Middlesex County College in Edison, N.J. He finds school so difficult, he said, he sometimes feels as if his head will explode. ''I was used to simple things, like weapons,'' he said. 
 Mr. Perez, who was a signal support system specialist, struggles with deeper demons -- flashbacks of being under mortar fire that still jolt him awake at night. ''I'm trying to be calm, not let little things bother me,'' he said. An active reservist, he learned last month that he will be deploying to Afghanistan in the fall. But he is still looking for work in the meantime, and wore his camouflage uniform, hoping that it would give him an edge.
 By the time the fair ended at 3 p.m., 468 veterans had streamed through the doors. Among them was Jason Brandle, 31, a newlywed from Long Island who flew Black Hawk helicopters over Iraq before returning home last summer. Mr. Brandle left the job fair 45 minutes before it closed. He had meant to stay longer, he said, but his body was aflame with pain. 
 In Iraq, the weight of body armor had ruined his back, he said, and working the heavy helicopter pedals injured his knees. He said he was looking for a decent-paying job in human resources because he and his wife wanted to start a family. He hoped one of the companies would call him back, he said; after being an officer and a battle captain, he was used to managing people. 
 ''There's not a whole lot of jobs for helicopter pilots,'' he said as he walked away, his freshly polished shoes (''An Army thing,'' he explained) moving quickly across the carpeted floor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (67%); POLICE FORCES (56%); CEMETERIES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%); VIET NAM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



709 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: With Vow to Reform Albany, Cuomo Accepts Democratic Nomination for Governor

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
RYE BROOK, N.Y. -- Even as Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo was hailed as the Democratic Party's nominee for governor at a convention that was largely a coronation, there was lingering unease in some party circles about his ascension, partly by Mr. Cuomo's own design. 
 Mr. Cuomo is running against the state government, though it is controlled by his fellow Democrats, and he has laid out policies that put him on a collision course with some labor unions that have been reliable Democratic allies. 
 Already, the state teachers union, recoiling at Mr. Cuomo's support of charter schools, has said it may not make an endorsement in the governor's race. 
 And Mr. Cuomo's fiscal policies, presented over the last week, could lead to a bitter budget fight if he is elected. He has rejected imposing tax increases and borrowing, meaning he would have to rely largely on spending cuts to close a yawning deficit next year. 
 In his speech to delegates on Thursday, Mr. Cuomo vowed to shake up Albany, which he said had failed its citizens. And he continued to strive to distance himself from the morass of state politics, which has been mired in scandal and gridlock, even while underscoring his family ties to Albany -- his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, could be seen playfully poking his son to make a point after the speech. 
 Along with his father, several Cuomo family members and Mr. Cuomo's companion, the celebrity cook Sandra Lee, gathered in the front of a standing-room-only hotel ballroom to applaud him. 
 ''When you go around the state, from Montauk to Buffalo, you hear over and over and over again the betrayal people feel towards the government,'' Mr. Cuomo said in the speech, adding that trust ''has to be restored, and we're not going to do it with words.''
 Mr. Cuomo's appearance at the convention on Thursday capped his crowning as the party's nominee for governor, which has been in the making for the last year, as Gov. David A. Paterson faltered and in February ended his own, brief candidacy. 
 The three-day convention focused largely on Mr. Cuomo; the party's five candidates to succeed him as attorney general were not permitted to speak from the podium, an unusual development that left some of the contenders seething. 
 His speech was received with sustained applause at points, if not exuberance, perhaps underscoring his arm's-length approach to some elements in his own party. At times, his address echoed the rhetorical rhythms of his father, who captivated Democrats with a national convention address in San Francisco in 1984.
 Minutes after his speech, Mr. Cuomo emerged at a luncheon at the hotel where delegates were gathered and began shaking hands, and fielding reporters' questions about how he would handle next year's budget. ''I'm not going to raise taxes; I'm not going to have a wage increase for public employees,'' he said. ''You may have to cut. You're going to have to cut where the money is. The money is in education. The money is in health care.''
 Not everyone was in lockstep with the party's new leader. Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson, a Democrat who represents parts of the Bronx and Westchester County, said Mr. Cuomo should work with lawmakers to solve the state's problems. ''I have no way of knowing whether he's going to be a partner or not,'' she said, ''but I think it'll be very lonely trying to be the governor without the Legislature as a partner.'' 
 Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers, said Mr. Cuomo had failed to acknowledge the value of unions in his convention speech. 
 ''We have about 90 days until our leaders make an endorsement,'' he said. ''We'll be paying a lot of attention between now and then.'' 
 Mr. Cuomo, while staking out a centrist fiscal agenda, this week reaffirmed his support for a number of left-leaning social positions, including same-sex marriage. But he has so far declined to say whether he would accept the endorsement of the Working Families Party, a coalition of liberal and labor groups. If Mr. Cuomo declined its endorsement, the party would almost certainly lose its ballot line status for statewide elections.
 Mr. Cuomo was introduced by William C. Thompson Jr., the former New York City comptroller; Kathy Hochul, the Erie County clerk; and Vivian Viloria-Fisher, a Dominican-born Suffolk County legislator -- an African-American, an upstate woman and a Latina. It reflected the type of careful ethnic and gender choreography that characterizes most conventions, but also seemed a response to grumblings here that the ticket fails to reflect the diversity of the state. 
 Mr. Cuomo has selected as his running mate Mayor Robert J. Duffy of Rochester, who, like himself, is a white, middle-aged, Catholic man. 
 The Cuomo campaign maintained its tight control of information. Mr. Duffy, unavailable for interviews since Mr. Cuomo picked him on Tuesday to be the candidate for lieutenant governor, was surrounded by reporters after the speeches ended. After only briefly fielding questions, he was asked if he and Mr. Cuomo disagreed on anything, and Mr. Duffy responded, ''We have not hit one thing that I consider to be any issue of disagreement.'' 
 At that, a nearby Cuomo aide shouted ''Shut it down!,'' and Mr. Duffy, trying to answer a question about what his portfolio might be as lieutenant governor, was whisked into the kitchen.
 Before the speeches concluded, Curtis Sliwa, the provocative radio host, snuck into the hallway outside the ballroom in a bright red cape, crown and sunglasses. As Mr. Cuomo finished speaking, Mr. Sliwa, wearing a sign that said ''King Cuomo II,'' began loudly demanding recognition. 
 ''This is my kingdom. I am your king. You have anointed me,'' Mr. Sliwa cried as several police officers and hotel security guards forced him from the hallway. ''You sycophants, toadies and lackeys -- how ungrateful!''
 After leading him out to the parking lot, security guards tried to take him to his car. When he refused to say where it was, they pulled him to a nearby loading dock, walked him through a door and barred a growing crowd of reporters from following.
 ''We're going to get him medical assistance,'' one guard said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew M. Cuomo, center, after accepting the Democratic nomination for governor on Thursday. Left of him is his mother, Matilda, and at far left, his father, Mario. Right of him is his companion, Sandra Lee, and at far right, his running mate, Robert J. Duffy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



710 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, School Budgets Turned Down by Voters Win Reprieves

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
After years of frustration over school taxes, New Jersey residents turned out in record numbers last month to reject 58 percent of their school districts' budget proposals, sounding an unmistakable protest.
 But in the weeks since, many of the 316 defeated budgets have been adopted with few, if any, changes by municipal councils, where members risked thwarting the will of voters -- and incurring their wrath -- rather than cut sports, lay off teachers or increase class sizes. 
 In Ridgewood, an affluent village in Bergen County known for its schools, the Council whittled $100,000 from the proposed $84.9 million budget, or 0.1 percent. Average savings to taxpayers: $12 per year.
 In Woodbridge, a working-class township in Middlesex County, the Council shaved $1 million -- 0.5 percent -- from a $182.5 million budget, saving taxpayers an average of $25 each. And in Parsippany-Troy Hills, in Morris County, where the school budget had been voted down for the second consecutive year, the Council trimmed $800,000 -- 0.6 percent -- from a nearly $127 million spending plan (the average savings is $52). 
 ''To have the Village Council go through and save a dollar a month is a joke,'' said Greg May, 39, a recording engineer who is among the 25,000 residents of Ridgewood. ''It almost makes me feel like what good was my vote? I think that's the general consensus.''
 State law requires that any rejected school budgets be reviewed by the municipal council, and adopted or amended within about a month. State education officials said they would not announce until next week the overall results of these reviews, but interviews in communities across New Jersey showed that in many districts, the process had divided council members and school leaders, while drawing fire from residents. 
 In a year of huge reductions in state education aid, many of the council members struggled to find a compromise between those outraged by high taxes and those worried about cuts to the classroom.
 ''Going into this, we knew whatever we do is not going to make either side happy,'' said James Major, president of the Woodbridge Council, who said he had lost sleep at night from the pressure. ''As a governing body, you try to hear all sides of it. You become a little Solomon-like in trying to make a decision.''
 While a council can leave a failed budget intact, most do not for fear of looking as if they have disregarded voters. School districts can appeal cuts made by the council to the State Education Department within 10 working days; last year, there were two appeals. 
 To be sure, there were places where the councils seemed to heed the voters' call. In Teaneck, where the budget was rejected by a vote of 4,790 to 3,618, the Council cut a record $6.1 million (6.4 percent) from the $94.9 million spending plan, eliminating assistant principals and most other administrators and their support staff. The Council in West Orange, in Essex County, where the budget was defeated by a vote of 3,947 to 3,176, carved $2.5 million (2.1 percent) from a $118 million budget proposal, depleting surplus funds and cutting back on administrative services and building repairs.
 In Woodbridge, where the budget was rejected by a vote of 6,350 to 4,734, Mr. Major said he and the eight other Council members spent weeks poring over budget items line by line, with every intention of cutting because ''we felt that the people spoke loud and clear and they needed to be heard.''
 But in the end, Mr. Major said, they could find no more than $1 million to take away from a cash-poor district that has long gone without things taken for granted in many schools, like full-day kindergarten or lacrosse and field hockey teams. He said that further reductions would have hurt core programs, which, in turn, would have brought down property values.
 In some towns, the council itself was deeply divided over the process. Parsippany-Troy Hills, where the budget was rejected by a vote of 3,773 to 3,431, hired an auditor who recommended $1.4 million in reductions. But three of the five council members voted to cut little more than half that amount after students and parents lobbied hard to keep full-day kindergarten and middle-school sports.
 ''I wanted the $1.4 million and more,'' said Councilman John Cesaro, 39, one of the dissenters, who argued that a larger reduction would be possible if school employees gave up part of their raises next year. ''My words fell on deaf ears because the unions feel a sense of entitlement, when the rest of the taxpayers are losing their jobs and being asked to contribute more for health care.''
 But LeRoy Seitz, the Parsippany-Troy Hills superintendent, said school financing was not just about controlling costs at the local level, but also about identifying alternatives at the state level, like a sales tax on luxury goods or a higher income tax on the wealthy.
 ''I tell people that property tax relief has to come from Trenton; it doesn't come from defeating your local school budget,'' said Dr. Seitz, who called the current system ''a regressive tax that hurts those who can least afford to pay.''
 Even those who can afford to pay are no longer so willing. In Ridgewood, which has long drawn the families of Wall Street executives, people have begun to express frustration at recent school board meetings over what they see as teachers unwilling to make sacrifices like everyone else in a tough economy. 
 Ridgewood's school budget was defeated, by a vote of 2,639 to 2,537, for the first time since 2003. Afterward, school officials identified $100,000 in lower-than-expected transportation costs, and the Council decided not to seek any further reductions. (The district had already planned to lay off 21 teachers and 33 classroom aides to offset an expected $3 million reduction in state aid.) 
 The result: the average tax bill will increase by $355 instead of $367.
 James Foytlin, 48, who runs a popular Web site, The Ridgewood Blog, said there was now talk in town of recalling members of the Council. ''It's just ridiculous,'' he said of the $100,000 cut. ''I'm sure the school board spends more on paper clips.'' 
 Even so, the $100,000 cut was still too much for one councilman, Paul S. Aronsohn, 43, a public relations consultant, who wanted to reduce the municipal budget rather than school spending to lower property taxes. ''I felt like the budget was being balanced on the backs of students,'' he said. ''I completely understand the need for tax relief, but I don't think we should take it all out of the schools.''
 Patrick A. Mancuso, another member of the Council, acknowledged that the $100,000 cut would make little difference, but said it was a start. He has asked village and school officials to begin looking for ways to save money in the 2011-12 budget by sharing equipment and services like vehicle and property maintenance.
 ''People say, 'Are you kidding?' '' he said. ''At least we're trying to demonstrate that we hear you, we're going to try harder, we're going to start now, and that's important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Councilmen Paul S. Aronsohn, left, and Patrick A. Mancuso of Ridgewood, N.J. Voters defeated the school budget this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



711 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: In Boost for Hollywood, Village Roadshow Secures $1 Billion in Financing

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- In the strongest indication yet that money is starting to flow back into the movie industry after the economic downturn, Village Roadshow Pictures Group on Thursday said that it had closed a $1 billion credit facility. 
 The deal, arranged by JPMorgan Chase and Rabobank in association with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, comprises $500 million in revolving credit and a $500 million term loan. Village Roadshow helps finance and produce movies with Warner Brothers, including ''Sex and the City 2,'' which was released on Thursday amid a frenzy of publicity.
 Hollywood, like most other industries, has struggled to secure financing over the last two years because of tightened capital markets. While there have been pockets of activity -- DreamWorks Studios secured $325 million in funding in August -- the total amounts have been in the low hundreds of millions. The Village Roadshow deal, on the other hand, is on par with the industry's largest financing deals.
 ''At a time when capital is at a premium, we've managed to attract the confidence of a diverse group of investors,'' said Greg Basser, chief executive of Village Roadshow Entertainment Group, a unit of Village Roadshow Limited that oversees the movie production operation.
 Bruce Berman, chairman and chief executive of Village Roadshow Pictures, cautioned that the deal might not signal a full recovery for the broader movie business. ''I don't think it's a harbinger for the industry as much as a confirmation of our company and partnership with Warner Brothers,'' he said.
 Village Roadshow has had a tough two years. Because of the credit market upheaval in late 2008, the company was unable to cover $120 million in costs for four co-productions with Warner, including the comedy ''Get Smart'' and ''Gran Torino,'' from Clint Eastwood.
 Warner covered its partner until May 2009, when Village Roadshow secured a one-year bridge loan, which allowed it to pay back Warner and secure new long-term financing. Among the coming movies on Village Roadshow's slate are ''Cats and Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore'' and ''Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole.''
 Village Roadshow has made up to 13 movies a year. Since its formation in 1997, it has amassed a library of 65 films.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CATS (60%)

COMPANY: VILLAGE ROADSHOW LTD (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (58%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (56%)

TICKER: VRL (ASX) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DWA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (94%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



712 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Federal Officials Say They Vastly Underestimated Rate of Oil Flow Into Gulf

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.; Campbell Robertson and Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Federal officials said Thursday that far more oil than they originally estimated was probably pouring into the Gulf of Mexico on a daily basis since the collapse of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. 
 The new estimate -- 12,000 to 19,000 barrels a day -- is two to five times higher than the 5,000 barrels a day figure given by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on April 28, and establishes the oil spill as the largest in American history.
 The government has been harshly criticized by scientists for underestimating the rate of the flow and for what appears to be its reluctance to force BP, the oil giant that owned the lease on the well, to more precisely measure the rate at which oil was gushing from the pipe into the gulf. The company's liability is in part determined by the extent of the spill. 
 President Obama, speaking at a White House news conference on Thursday, admitted that his administration, in dealing with BP officials, ''should have pushed them sooner,'' to release images that would have helped in estimating the flow rate. 
 ''There was a lag of several weeks that I think -- that I think shouldn't have happened,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 But he also stressed that the lower estimates ''didn't change what our response was.''
 ''As I said from the start, we understood that this could be really bad,'' he said.
 If the new estimate is accurate, as much as 30 million gallons of oil may already have poured into the gulf over 37 days -- nearly triple the amount spilled when the Exxon Valdez ran aground in Alaska in 1989. But that amount is still smaller than the nearly 140 million gallons of oil spilled into the gulf over nine months by the Mexican rig Ixtoc I in 1979, the world's largest accidental release of oil. That fact, however, will do little to allay fears that a massive cloud of oil swirling below the surface of the gulf will continue to wreak environmental and economic damage for months, if not years to come.
 The National Incident Command's Flow Rate Technical Group, a collection of government and independent researchers formed last week in response to criticism of the lower estimates, based its new figures on an analysis of surface oil, undersea video of the leaks, computer modeling and other data. 
 Outside scientists said Thursday that the new estimate did not surprise them. ''That range is an interval that many people have long been thinking the magnitude really is,'' said Jeffrey Short, a former scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration who now works for the environmental group Oceana. 
 He said the continuing fallout from the spill, which has already begun fouling beaches along the Louisiana coast and devastated the local fishing industry -- will depend on the extent and behavior of giant plumes of oil and water that appear to be suspended deep below the surface. 
 A team of scientists from the University of South Florida, which has been studying the underwater plume, said Thursday that they had identified dissolved oil throughout a wide area of the deepwater of the gulf and suggested that a ''limb'' of an undersea plume was spreading northeast toward the continental shelf. 
 In the worst case, scientists say, the cloud could threaten precious coral reefs along the Florida Keys, contaminate the food web and affect a variety of species forced to migrate through it. 
 ''Much depends on where the oil goes,'' said Dr. Short, who added that there was meager data on how such plumes behaved. ''This is pretty new territory,'' he said. 
 Criticism of the official estimates began within a week of the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig on April 20. For several days, government and BP officials claimed that the leak from the well was about 1,000 barrels a day.
 On April 27, the group SkyTruth, which uses satellite images to monitor environmental problems, estimated the flow rate to be at least 5,000 barrels a day -- and probably much higher. 
 Over objections from BP, the government quickly raised its own estimate to 5,000 barrels a day -- but based the measurement on techniques that other scientists said were not suitable for measuring large undersea spills. Both the government and BP have since said that the early figures were just estimates.
 In Washington, Congressional investigators said Thursday that an internal BP document suggested that the company had used the lower-end estimate of 1,000 barrels a day when the upper end was 14,000 barrels per day -- roughly the flow rate federal researchers have now arrived at more than a month later. 
 At a hearing of a house subcommittee, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, asked BP America's chairman, Lamar McKay, if the company had a financial interest in maintaining the impression of a smaller leak. 
 Mr. McKay said that he did not know, but that it did not matter, and that BP would pay for all legitimate claims and clean up all the oil it could, no matter what the flow had been.
 In a telephone interview after the hearing, Mr. Markey noted that under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, companies face fines of up to $1,000 per barrel, or up to $3,000 per barrel in the case of gross negligence. For BP, he said, the potential fine for 1,000 barrels per day over 37 days of spillage would be on the order of $37 million at $1,000 a barrel, compared with $1.5 billion in fines for the upper estimate of 14,000 barrels per day at $3,000 a barrel. 
 ''I think they were hoping they could fix it before they would be forced to allow the world to measure it,'' Mr. Markey said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Estimating the Spill So Far: The totals for the amount of oil spilled so far are calculated using new federal estimates of the rate of oil flowing out of the deepwater well, beginning from the initial explosion on April 20 through Thursday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); WEATHER (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OCEANS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); HISTORY (70%); MODELING & SIMULATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); COASTAL AREAS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



713 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Commitment to European Integration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Germany vs. Europe'' (editorial, May 27):
 To doubt the European commitment of the German leadership and Chancellor Angela Merkel could not be further off the mark. Germany's commitment to European integration, including introducing the euro and giving up the highly valued Deutsche mark, is one of the cornerstones of German political convictions. 
 In the current crisis, the unprecedented financial support for the euro, to which Germany has committed itself by the decisions of its government and Parliament, is remarkable.
 At a time when public debt is much criticized in all our countries, it should come as no surprise that the biggest financial commitments in German postwar history do not go without a sometimes heated political and public debate.
 In the global economic crisis Germany has contributed its fair share to stimulus spending. Germany has invested a percentage of its gross domestic product similar to that of the United States -- 90 billion euros in 2009 and 2010, or 3.5 percent of its G.D.P. This has kept unemployment in Germany relatively low.
 The greatest challenge facing the European Union and the euro zone right now is having individual members bring their debt and structural deficits under control as they have pledged. This is a matter of trust. Germany has made a couple of suggestions, and we are working particularly closely with France, once again, to move Europe forward on that path.
 That is why President Nicolas Sarkozy and Chancellor Merkel will meet in Berlin at the beginning of June to jointly prepare for the coming Group of 8 and Group of 20 summit meetings. This is leadership.
 Klaus Scharioth German Ambassador to the United States Washington, May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EURO (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (78%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



714 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Nearly $60 Billion for War Effort

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Thursday approved a nearly $60 billion measure to pay for continuing military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq as House Democrats struggled to round up votes for a major package of business tax breaks and safety-net programs for the long-term unemployed.
 Senators delivered a bipartisan 67-to-28 vote for the war financing bill after rejecting a series of Republican proposals on border protection as well as a plan by Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, to require President Obama to produce a timetable for withdrawing from Afghanistan. 
 With lawmakers eager to begin a Memorial Day recess, House Democratic leaders ran into stiff resistance from rank-and-file members uneasy about supporting the approximately $143 billion tax and unemployment measure. More than $80 billion of it would be deficit spending -- a hot-button issue in the midterm Congressional campaigns and an increasingly frequent line of Republican attack.
 ''Democrats are still committed to their out-of-control spending spree,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, said Thursday.
 Trying to win over moderate and conservative Democrats by reducing the legislation's impact on the deficit, Democratic leaders said they intended to break up the measure and jettison some provisions like health insurance subsidies for the unemployed. Votes were expected Friday.
 Even if the House passes the legislation, no final action will occur for at least a week since Senate leaders said Thursday night that they would be unable to consider the measure before the Memorial Day break. As a result, tens of thousands of Americans could face an interruption in their unemployment benefits as of next week. The House bill would extend jobless pay through November for those who have exhausted their initial benefits. Senate officials said they would try to restore the jobless pay when Congress reconvenes on June 7. 
 Besides the aid to the unemployed, the House measure included about $32 billion in tax breaks, including a popular business credit for research and development.
 The Senate spending measure provides $33.5 billion for the Pentagon and fully pays for the additional 30,000 troops in the administration's buildup in Afghanistan. It also sets aside $13 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs to treat veterans disabled by Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. It shifts $5 billion to the Federal Emergency Management Agency to prevent it from running out of disaster relief. The bill would also give Haiti more than $1 billion for earthquake relief and recovery.
 The effort by Mr. Feingold, an opponent of the war in Afghanistan, was defeated on a vote of 80 to 18. He noted that his proposal was nonbinding and decried the lack of discussion about the nation's role in Afghanistan even as Congress was providing new financing for the almost nine-year-old conflict.
 ''I'm disappointed we are about to pass a bill providing tens of billions of dollars to keep this war going with so little public debate about whether this approach even makes sense,'' Mr. Feingold said. ''I hope my colleagues will agree that the American people deserve an answer to the question: How much longer?''
 Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, called Mr. Feingold's plan ill advised and noted that Mr. Obama had already said he would begin withdrawing forces in July 2011. 
 ''It is already a deep-seated fear in Afghanistan that the United States will abandon the region,'' Mr. Levin said. He said it would be a mistake to exacerbate those fears ''while our forces are still deploying to Afghanistan and while the Taliban is doing everything it can to convince the Afghan people that U.S. forces are unable to protect them.''
 The debate over the timeline put some Democrats in the position of opposing a proposal that they had supported during the Bush administration's management of the war. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the current situation was different since Mr. Obama had already outlined a withdrawal plan.
 ''I have always believed that our commitment in Afghanistan should not be open-ended, which is why I continue to support the president's plan,'' Mr. Reid said.
 During the debate, the Senate also rejected Republican proposals that would have gone beyond the new White House plan to send 1,200 members of the National Guard to increase security along the border with Mexico in the Southwest.
 The House is just beginning its consideration of a much more costly war financing measure that includes a series of domestic initiatives not considered by the Senate. As a result a final version of the legislation is not likely to be sent to the president's desk until later this summer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House minority leader, John A. Boehner, spoke on the budget Thursday with Representatives Eric Cantor and Mike Pence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); ERIC CANTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



715 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: China Issues Assurances, And Investors Turn Positive

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and DAVID JOLLY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Once again, the stock market swung wildly on Thursday -- only this time, it swung up, rather than down. 
 After days of sudden losses and reversals in the markets, investors rallied around a rare bit of good news: The Chinese government dismissed reports that it might pare its European investments given the debt problems gripping Europe. 
 That stocks managed to hold on to their gains -- the broader market was up 3.3 percent, one of its biggest advances this year -- heartened investors unnerved by the recent volatility in the markets. 
 ''We held today,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for Standard & Poor's. ''We did have those turnarounds. Not today. We followed through with the increase.''
 The flight to safety that has characterized the markets in recent days -- investors have sold stocks and bought safe investments like Treasury securities -- reversed itself Thursday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 284.54 points, or 2.85 percent, to 10,258.99. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 35.11 points, or 3.29 percent, to 1,103.06, and the Nasdaq was up 81.80 points, or 3.73 percent, to 2,277.68. Global markets have been volatile and skittish because of the uncertainty in the financial markets, with only occasional short-lived rallies interrupting a generally downward trend. The reasons for the slide -- concern about the wider fallout from the European debt crisis and worries about China's efforts to control the pace of its booming growth -- are likely to keep dogging the markets.
 The American market has seemed particularly unnerved recently as investors have been reluctant to hold their positions and have dumped equities, sometimes late in the day, knowing that they will be subject to the dictates of Asian and European markets overnight.
 On Wednesday, for example, trade was higher for most of the day until the last hour, when the market started falling, sending the Dow to its lowest close since February. Some analysts cited reports of officials in Beijing meeting with foreign bankers to discuss China's investment in euro zone debt.
 But on Thursday, a statement by the People's Bank of China dismissed reports that the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is responsible for assets of more than $600 billion, was evaluating its investment in euro zone debt, reflecting concerns that some European nations might eventually default on their debts.
 In its statement, China's central bank said it was committed to long-term investment in Europe. It also said it supported the European integration process and the stabilization measures worked out this month by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, and that the euro zone would be able to overcome its difficulties.
 As the day wore on, American equities rallied and strengthened. 
 ''It definitely helped the equities market,'' Kevin Giddis, president of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan, said of the Chinese statement. ''You saw it in the futures run-up. And it had an impact on Treasuries.''
 Mr. Silverblatt said it was only the second time this year that the Standard & Poor's index closed 3 percent higher. Intraday index movements have averaged about 2.8 percent over the past 20 days, or 2.4 percent when removing the unusual market movements of May 6.
 ''People have been waiting for this correction, and it is here,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. ''You've got more buying and selling matching up. The bulls and the bears are coming out.''
 Since the American market will be closed on Monday for Memorial Day, investors on Friday might be asking themselves whether they want to hold on to their positions over the long weekend, particularly since markets will be open in Europe and Asia.
 ''That adds a little bit of uncertainty,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. 
 Thursday's rise was broad, with energy, technology, financial and materials shares all substantially higher. Citigroup shares were up 16 cents at $4.02 after the Treasury announced that it had sold 1.5 billion shares of Citigroup, or about a fifth of its holdings, at a profit of $1.3 billion. Most Citibank rivals were up at least 3 percent.
 Microsoft led the Nasdaq higher, closing up 99 cents at $26. Apple shares rose 3.8 percent to $253.35.
 ''We were due for a bounce,'' said Philip J. Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors. ''We had some strength overseas in Asia and Europe overnight and we just sort of took our cues from there.''
 Before the open in New York, the government reported that the economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, slightly less than the initial estimate of 3.2 percent. Economists had expected growth of 3.4 percent. In addition, filings for first-time unemployment claims dropped less than expected. 
 But it was the report about Europe, rather than economic indicators that some described as a disappointment, that the market seemed to respond to. While the support from Beijing helpedlift the euro and stocks, it also served to remind that global confidence in Europe's ability to solve its debt problems remains fragile. 
 In Berlin, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told a news conference attended by Wolfgang Schauble, his German counterpart, that the United States and Europe were working closely together to ensure that problems in countries like Greece would not spread.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 1 14/32, to 101 6/32. The yield rose to 3.36 percent, from 3.19 percent late Wednesday.
 European and Asian shares also rose. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue-chip companies, gained 3.5 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London rose 3.1 percent. All major sectors advanced, led by shares of banks and industrial companies.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday (Source: Bloomberg)(GRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (87%); EURO ZONE (87%); EURO (84%); CENTRAL BANKS (84%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) EUROPE (98%); CHINA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



716 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Europe and U.S. Are Seen In Agreement on Finance

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in Berlin on Thursday that the United States and Europe were in ''broad agreement'' on the need for stricter market regulation but stressed that they would take different paths when necessary.
 ''We are going to have slightly different approaches'' and paces toward financial reform, Mr. Geithner said after meeting with the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble. 
 Berlin was the third stop on Mr. Geithner's trip. On Wednesday, he was in London for a meeting with George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, and then in Frankfurt, where he met with the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, and Axel Weber, president of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank.
 Mr. Geithner said he wanted to hear firsthand about Europe's plans for more market regulation and how the United States and Europe could agree on a framework for change before next month's Group of 20 summit meeting in Canada.
 ''I think we're in a very good position to reach agreement on a global framework that works,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''The U.S. and Europe are in broad agreement on the importance of putting in place more conservative'' approaches to taking risk, adding that there were already different systems in place. 
 But there was, he stressed, the need for the right balance. ''We all agree you want to have more conservative constraints on leverage and capital,'' Mr. Geithner said. 
 The G-20 nations are trying to reach a consensus on new rules to avoid ''regulatory arbitrage'' in which some banks or hedge funds move their activities to whatever location offers the loosest oversight.
 The United States -- along with several European countries -- have been at odds over Germany's plan to introduce a ban on naked short-selling of sovereign debt securities and financial shares. Regulators from other European countries have not followed Germany.
 Leaders on both sides of the Atlantic agree on requiring banks to hold more capital in reserve during good times so they are more resilient during crises. But there is disagreement on other points, like a bank levy to create a fund that would be used to wind down sick banks during a financial crisis.
 Michel Barnier, the European Union commissioner for the internal market, on Wednesday proposed that banks be required to pay such a levy. But American lawmakers have been reluctant to impose a bank levy, and Britain and France have resisted creating a separate fund, preferring the money go into general coffers instead.
 Germany has annoyed its allies by acting alone on some regulations, for example its unilateral move last week to ban so-called naked short-selling of the shares of 10 German financial institutions. On Tuesday, Mr. Schauble proposed banning the practice, which is already restricted in the United States, on all stocks as well as on bonds issued by euro area governments.
 Short-selling is a method used by some investors to bet that a share or other security will fall in price; naked short-selling means making that bet without actually having control of the shares.
 Despite Mr. Geithner's remarks that the United States and Europe were in broad agreement over the need for tighter market regulation, Mr. Schauble made it clear that Germany would continue to act unilaterally.
 ''I know the American approach is somewhat different'' regarding naked short-selling,'' Mr. Schauble told reporters. Germany, he added was ''right'' to go it alone ''given the intensification of the debate.'' 
 Besides, he said, Germany could not wait until October, when the European Union intends to present its own regulatory proposals for the bloc.
 Mr. Schauble acknowledged that Germany had been criticized for its unilateral stance on financial regulation. But he also justified it. ''We have done our national homework,'' he said. ''We have to keep moving forward.''
 Michael Offer, a spokesman for the German finance ministry, said earlier this week that Mr. Schauble was ready to introduce a German or European Union-wide financial activity tax or financial transaction tax if efforts to reach a coordinated approach at the G-20 meeting failed.
 The European Union decided this month to offer loan guarantees of 750 billion euros (nearly $1 trillion) for governments in danger of defaulting on debt. 
 At the same time, several governments, including Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy, have announced plans to reduce their budget deficits by introducing cutbacks across the public sector. 
 Mr. Geithner said that he welcomed such moves but that it was necessary that the United States and Europe work together ''to make sure that we are strengthening and reinforcing the global recovery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, left, andWolfgang Schauble, Germany's finance minister, met reporters on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOLFGANG KUMM/DPA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EURO (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (79%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (54%); GEORGE OSBORNE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



717 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Obama Reorients Approach Of National Security Strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and PETER BAKER; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from the United Nations.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's first formal national security strategy describes a coming era in which the United States will have to learn to live within its limits -- a world in which two wars cannot be sustained for much longer and the rising powers inevitably begin to erode some elements of American influence around the globe. 
 Mr. Obama argues that the United States is confident enough to live with that reality and that after nearly a decade of organizing its national security policy around counterterrorism, it must return to a broader agenda. ''The burdens of a young century cannot fall on American shoulders alone,'' Mr. Obama says in the introduction of the strategy released on Thursday. ''Indeed, our adversaries would like to see America sap our strength by overextending our power.'' 
 But this document, required by Congress, is also bound to reignite the argument over the way Mr. Obama has redirected American foreign policy over the past 16 months. His critics -- inclined to portray him as too eager to apologize for America's failings and too willing to surrender the nation's role as the single, indispensable superpower -- are likely to extract elements of the new document to bolster their case. 
 But to Mr. Obama's team, it is a document that recognizes the world as it is and ends a era of illusion in which Washington confused projecting power with achieving results. ''We are no less powerful,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Thursday at the Brookings Institution. ''We are shifting from mostly direct application and exercise of American power,'' she said, to one of indirection, that requires patience and partners, and gets results more slowly.
 ''In a world like this, American leadership isn't needed less,'' she said. ''It is needed more. And the simple fact is that no global problem can be solved without us.''
 The 52-page document tries to blend the idealism of Mr. Obama's campaign promises with the realities of his confrontations with a fractious and threatening world. It describes an America ''hardened by war'' and ''disciplined by a devastating economic crisis,'' and it concludes that the United States cannot sustain extended wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan while fulfilling other commitments. 
 That line is just one of many subtle slaps at former President George W. Bush. While Mr. Bush's 2002 document explicitly said the United States would never allow the rise of a rival superpower, Mr. Obama argues that America faces no real military competitor but that global power is increasingly diffuse. 
 Both Mrs. Clinton and the principal author of the report, Ben Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, argued that Mr. Obama recognized that reality when he pressed the Group of 8 nations -- the largest industrialized economies and Russia -- to cede more power to the Group of 20, which includes fast-emerging powers like China, India and Brazil. 
 Although Mr. Obama has put a renewed focus on the Afghan war and increased C.I.A.drone strikes against militants in Pakistan, the strategy rejects Mr. Bush's focus on counterterrorism as the organizing principle of security policy. Those efforts ''to counter violent extremism'' -- Mr. Obama avoids the word Islamic -- ''are only one element of our strategic environment and cannot define America's engagement with the world.'' 
 He goes on to argue that ''the gravest danger to the American people and global security continues to come from weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons.'' But he also dwells on cyberthreats, climate change and America's dependence on fossil fuels as fundamental national security issues, issues that received little or no attention in Mr. Bush's document, although Mr. Bush focused on them more in his second term. 
 ''It is a rather dramatic departure from the most recent prior national security strategy,'' said Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations. 
 The differences are clearest in a section on the use of force, which makes no mention of pre-emptive attacks against countries or nonstate actors who may pose a threat, as Mr. Bush did in 2002. But Mr. Obama does not explicitly rule out striking first. 
 ''While the use of force is sometimes necessary, we will exhaust other options before war whenever we can, and carefully weigh the costs and risks of action against the costs and risks of inaction,'' he says. When it is necessary, he adds, ''we will seek broad international support.'' 
 Mr. Bush's aides had said they would not seek a ''permission slip'' for such actions. Mr. Obama phrases that idea more softly, saying ''the United States must reserve the right to act unilaterally if necessary to defend our nation and our interests, yet we will also seek to adhere to standards that govern the use of force.'' 
 Mr. Obama also defines security more broadly than his predecessor did, making the case, for example, that reducing the budget deficit is critical to sustaining American power. Mrs. Clinton focused much of her Brookings presentation on that theme, arguing that American commanders and diplomats see the long-term national debt as one of the largest threats to American influence and to the country's ability to project power abroad. 
 Still, for all its self-conscious rejection of the Bush era, the document reflects elements of continuity. For example, it does not disavow using the state secrets act to withhold information from courts in terrorism cases, although it argues for prudent and limited use. It also insists that ''we will maintain the military superiority that has secured our country, and underpinned global security, for decades.'' 
 It does not make the spread of democracy the priority that Mr. Bush did, but it embraces the goal more robustly than is typical for Mr. Obama, a reflection of a struggle in his administration about how to handle a topic so associated with Mr. Bush. Mr. Obama commits to ''welcoming all peaceful democratic movements'' and to ''supporting the development of institutions within fragile democracies.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TERRORISM (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



718 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Succession Concerns Drive North Korea, Experts Say

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Over the years, South Korean officials and analysts have grown accustomed to the North Koreans' habit of stirring up trouble, whether through missile launchings or nuclear tests. And when faced with international censure, the North lashes out with threats of retaliation and even war. Typically, it is an attention-getting tactic, the South Koreans say, used to win diplomatic and economic concessions.
 But this time the motivation may be different. 
 Experts on North Korea say that its latest act of belligerence -- the sinking of a South Korean ship in March, one of the worst military provocations since the end of the Korean War in 1953 -- reflects a new force at play: the efforts of the North's leader, Kim Jong-il, to establish his 27-year-old son as a legitimate heir to carry on the family dynasty. 
 ''His succession to power is the factor that links all other factors when we try to explain why the North is doing what it does these days,'' said Choi Jin-wook, a senior analyst at the Korea Institute for National Unification, the Seoul government's top research organization on North Korea. ''Without it, no explanation is complete or convincing.''
 On the surface, the North's ever-intensifying policy of confrontation can appear self-defeating. But, officials and analysts here say, it is all part of Mr. Kim's effort to groom Kim Jong-un, the youngest of his three known sons, as his successor. According to this line of thinking, the sinking of the South Korean ship was intended to create an atmosphere of crisis that would serve Mr. Kim's purposes, both by rallying public support and winning the crucial backing of the military. 
 ''Kim Jong-il needs to create a warlike atmosphere at home to push through with the succession of power to his son,'' said Cheon Seong-whun, another senior analyst at the Korea Institute for National Unification. ''To do that, he needs tensions and an external enemy.'' 
 Mr. Kim himself was carefully groomed for years to succeed his father, Kim Il-sung, who died in 1994. In the years he was consolidating his power base, Kim Jong-il was credited with masterminding a 1968 commando attack on the South Korean presidential palace in Seoul and the 1976 ax killings of two American military officers at the border, said Baek Seung-joo, a North Korea specialist at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses.
 Also in 1968, North Korea captured an American naval intelligence ship, the Pueblo, holding 82 hostages for nearly a year, while its commandos attacked remote South Korean villages and clashed with the South Korean military for two months.
 But this latest succession has been thrust upon the Kims prematurely, after Kim Jong-il's reported stroke in 2008 and subsequent health problems. Although Mr. Kim, 68, was healthy enough to visit China this month, questions persist over how long he can remain in power.
 The next step for Kim Jong-un is to make his official public debut, but that has been complicated by his lack of major achievements, analysts said.
 The elder Mr. Kim ''wants to speed up his military-first policy and nuclear program and wants to consolidate the succession process before his health condition becomes worse,'' a high-ranking South Korean government official told a group of foreign correspondents in Seoul on Friday. ''His third son is also rushing because as a member of the new generation, he wants to prove himself to be very strong and able to control the military leadership. In order to do so, he wants to show to the North Korean leadership that he has achieved some major military outcomes, particularly targeted against South Korea.''
 Of course, the succession issue is not the only problem facing Kim Jong-il. His trademark policy of building a ''strong and prosperous nation'' was called into question when his navy lost a humiliating skirmish against the South last November. His government's recent attempt to arrest inflation and eliminate black markets through a drastic revaluation of the North Korean currency set off more inflation and a wave of popular discontent that extended beyond the capital, Pyongyang. 
 Meanwhile, South Korea refused to offer economic incentives until the North gave up its nuclear weapons program.
 With the succession issue and the rising internal and external pressures, it is not surprising that Mr. Kim would ratchet up confrontation with the South and its allies, said Mr. Cheon, the analyst. North Korea's propaganda machine uses international condemnation to strengthen internal solidarity, he said. 
 North Korea is now telling its people that the United States and South Korea fabricated the sinking of the South's ship as a version of the ''Gulf of Tonkin incident,'' a battle that Washington vastly overstated to justify expanding the Vietnam War. Huge outdoor rallies are being mobilized in the North, according to North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity, a Web site run by defectors from the North, which cited sources inside North Korea.
 Last week, using a radio network that reaches every North Korean home, Gen. O Kuk-ryol, a top officer, delivered Mr. Kim's order to the military and reserve forces to be ready for combat, said the defectors' Web site.
 But Mr. Kim's most concerted efforts seem to be directed at the military, the critical power base for his son. Despite United Nations sanctions that ban exports of luxury goods to the North, Mr. Kim is believed to have smuggled in fancy foreign cars for loyal generals, and in April 100 senior officers received promotions. 
 Ha Tae-keung, who runs Open Radio for North Korea, a Web site based in Seoul that collects news from informants inside the North, said that Mr. Kim's tactics seemed to be succeeding. ''I think the son is firmly in place,'' he said. ''He was in charge in Pyongyang when his father and his top aides were all in China.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, above, is said to be grooming his son as his heir. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KCNA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (78%); NAVIES (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



719 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Dorm Rooms With Bragging Rights

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN and DAVID WALTER; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As college-bound seniors look forward to the schools they will call home next fall, it is a good bet that many have no idea just how steeped in history their future homes are.
 A search of archival records at several universities reveals how easy it is to share a little turf with Michelle Obama at Princeton or Anderson Cooper at Yale, if one is enterprising.
The first lady had a single room at 224 Pyne on the Princeton campus long before she moved into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. ''I've been hoping she would stop by for old-times' sake,'' said Andrew Gross, a music major who spent the last year in the room. He got the 168-square-foot room to the annoyance of the friend behind him in line, who wanted the room ''really badly.'' 
 ''It was actually a point of contention,'' Mr. Gross said. 
 Nearby are rooms that were home to two former presidential contenders, Bill Bradley (41 Little) and Adlai E. Stevenson (33 Holder).
 The four freshmen living in Stevenson's old digs have it festooned in Mardi Gras beads and posters for ''The Notebook'' and ''Death Cab for Cutie.'' They said they did not know who Stevenson was but were impressed when told he ran for president in 1952 and 1956.
 ''I just love how at Princeton, there's just famous people in every place,'' said Sabina Hlavaty of Rockville, Md.
 ''I wonder if one of us will be famous one day,'' Marjie Lam, her roommate from Stow, Mass., wondered aloud.
 Of course, not all fame is the best kind. Eliot Spitzer, the former governor of New York who resigned after a prostitution scandal, shared a suite at 83 Spelman in a newer swath of campus. Designed by I. M. Pei, Spelman features large picture windows that may have given the future governor an early taste of life in a fishbowl.
 Gregor Schubert, an economics major from Leipzig, Germany, who called 83 Spelman home this year, said he did not mind the way the windows let the world see in. ''I don't think I have anything to hide while I'm eating my breakfast,'' he said.
 But his neighbor at 81 Spelman, Mandy Lee, said she understood how the space was not for everyone. ''Some people don't like it,'' she said. ''They feel their privacy is intruded upon.''
 Those drawn more to business than politics also have some decent options. Malcolm Forbes, the high-flying businessman, lived at 65 Blair. Carl C. Icahn, the corporate raider, lived at 621 Cuyler. Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, spent her junior year at 211 Walker. She may be a twofer, since she is seeking a second act as California's next governor.
 For those who prefer their celebrities to be on cable or celluloid, Yale has Anderson Cooper's old room at D11, Durfee Hall, and Paul Giamatti's room at C52, Vanderbilt Hall.
 Fordham University in the Bronx can also hold its own. The eight students who ended up with E6 of Martyrs' Court in 1983 learned that they had inherited the third-floor suite once occupied by Alphonso Joseph D'Abruzzo, later known as Alan Alda. As big fans of his hit television show ''M.A.S.H.,'' they thought it only fitting to hold a party the night of the final episode with makeshift tenting and drinks poured from an improvised still. Everyone from the BBC to The New York Post was there to chronicle it.
 ''I went once to the University of Virginia and they had Edgar Allan Poe's old dorm room blocked off with glass, so you could see it but not use it anymore,'' said Joe Trentacosta, a host of the farewell party. Being able to live in the famous room, he said, ''makes you feel more connected to the school.''
 Anyone wanting to live in Mr. Alda's room now would need an engineer's help to find it. Seven double rooms numbered L200 to L206 have displaced the eight-man suite on the floor plan. But the shared bathroom - L207 on the map (pdf) - and old plumbing are intact.
 (There is no point even looking for traces of the heartthrob from Fordham's class of 1977, Denzel Washington. University officials confirm that he commuted.)
 With a handful of exceptions, addresses of former students can often be gleaned from the directories, yearbooks and phone records found in college archives. But many addresses are no longer valid.
 Colleges often tear down or renovate buildings in an effort to provide the latest amenities, in a departure from the days when colleges offered their best rooms, perhaps those with fireplaces, indoor plumbing or room for a servant, only to those who paid extra. And preserving the past is not always the highest priority. ''They are hugely hesitant to do this because once it becomes a thing, they have to preserve it, and people get upset if they want to renovate it,'' said Michael Weishan, a landscape designer who is donating his services to help Harvard restore some historic rooms that happened to survive.
 And there are security concerns. ''You can understand why there would be a concern about individuals in the public reading a story and thinking they could come to campus to visit a dorm room where a famous person lived,'' Emily Aronson, a Princeton spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail message.
 So Yalies can still aspire to live in the building that housed future President George H. W. Bush, at 1275 Chapel Street in New Haven. But if they prefer Cole Porter, who wrote many of Yale's fight songs a century ago, his old haunts on York Street and Haughton Hall are nothing more than distant memories.
 Princeton, too, sings of ''Going Back,'' though it turns out, you often can't.
 Eager to bed down where James Stewart, the Hollywood legend, snoozed when he was part of Princeton's class of 1932? Dream on. His freshman-year address at 8 North Reunion was razed, even though John Fitzgerald Kennedy, a future president, also briefly bunked at Reunion.
 Sports fans may be just as disappointed to learn that the part of West College that once housed Moe Berg, a major-league catcher whose linguistic dexterity made him a valuable World War II spy, is now in the admissions office.
 And don't bother searching for former Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld's former home at 423 Brown. It is now a women's restroom.
 Princeton's latest emissary to the United States Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor, lived at 164 Little. But the entryway that led to it has vanished, making the room's whereabouts as mysterious as Brigadoon.
 Supreme Court junkies might fare better if Elena Kagan, a member of Princeton's class of 1981, makes it on to the court. Records show she lived at 215 Princeton Inn, which appears to have been rechristened 215 Forbes College. ''I had no idea that I was in any way connected,'' said David Mendelsohn, a sophomore from Rockville Centre, N.Y., who had it this year.
 Francis Sloat, a volunteer on a committee that seeks to preserve Princeton's heritage, does his best to keep up. He began compiling a spreadsheet about four years ago that now includes the names of hundreds of famous alumni and their former addresses. He said he created the list at the behest of a group that furnishes tours of the campus, which wanted to greet new arrivals in their dorms with icebreakers like, ''Oh, by the way, did you know F. Scott Fitzgerald roomed there?''
 (For the record, Fitzgerald's former address at 15 University Place would these days be considered off-campus housing.)
 Mr. Sloat steers clear of calling his list an official roster of notables lest ''somebody's ego gets bruised'' for being left off, adding, ''I was kind of surprised at some of the sensitivities.''
 His spreadsheet, a work in progress whose existence has been closely guarded on campus, captures dignitaries from James Madison, a founding father from the class of 1771, to Jeffrey P. Bezos, a founder of Amazon.com from the class of 1986.
 It even includes a matter-of-fact category called ''Black Sheep,'' which lists Lyle Menendez of the class of 1992. Convicted, along with his brother, Erik, of killing their parents at their Beverly Hills home, Lyle has been living at Mule Creek State Prison in Ione, Calif., of late. Current students might - or might not - want to steer clear of his old room on campus at 123 Walker.
 City Room readers are kindly invited to submit comments below if they have information about their own college's famous alumni and where they lived.
 To those, like the authors of this post, who feel sheepish about sleepwalking through college without finding out whose important footsteps they followed, here is another shot at vicarious glory.
 The two-bedroom suite with the paw-foot tub and pull-chain toilet that Franklin Delano Roosevelt rented more than a century ago when he enrolled at Harvard is no longer used for student housing. But much like the dorm room John F. Kennedy eventually had his senior year at Harvard's Winthrop House, which has been enjoyed gratis for some time by guests of the university's Institute of Politics, Roosevelt's suite will also be made available to special guests of the university.
 Starting this fall, Roosevelt's suite will be able to be rented at $150 a night by visiting scholars, university guests and others who obtain university permission. Inquiries can be directed to the masters of Adams House at (617) 495-2259.
 The suite has been outfitted with period reproductions and artifacts, thanks to the restoration efforts of Mr. Weishan, and it still has the high ceilings that Roosevelt cooed over to his mother. With her blessing, he and a chum paid close to $500 to rent the place for the 1900-1 school year. It was a pretty penny, considering that Harvard charged only $150 or so a year in tuition at the time.
 Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Holly Linneman, top, Marjie Lam, Lisa Han and Sabina Hlavaty lived in the Princeton dormitory room once occupied by Adlai E. Stevenson.
ANDREW GROSS, on MICHELLE OBAMA, below, who lived in his room.
 SABINA HLAVATY, above right, on a previous occupant of the room, ADLAI E. STEVENSON, below (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) MAP: The halls of Yale, housing the famous and not-so-famous. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); GOVERNORS (62%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (71%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (50%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



720 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: In a City that Eats Local, a Push to Keep Shoppers Close to Home

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
When Ron Mallia bought a dilapidated former auto repair shop on Valencia Street, in the trendy, artsy heart of the Mission District, he was very particular about the types of shops that could rent the space. 
 It took him seven months to find tenants during the depths of the financial crisis, but he turned down several chains, including Urban Outfitters. He ended up subsidizing the rent for Gypsy Honeymoon, an antique store, and for Heart, an art gallery and wine bar, and Arizmendi Bakery.
''I didn't want formula retail because I didn't feel that's what's going on on Valencia Street,'' Mr. Mallia said. ''I wanted a small entrepreneurial-type business that offers something unique.'' 
 Mr. Mallia is part of the ''shop local'' movement in the Bay Area, where ''locavores'' no longer just want to buy food grown locally, but also apparel, jewelry and furniture based on where it is made and sold. 
 However, many storefronts on Valencia are empty. Some residents and shopkeepers wonder whether this hyper-local form of protectionism is good for residents and merchants -- and who should have a say over how and where people shop.
 The idea, of course, is a close relation to the local-food movement whose influence is omnipresent in the region. These days, it is rare for a Bay Area restaurant not to list the farm that grew the kale or made the goat cheese on its menu. But now, particularly in neighborhoods like the Mission, it is just as common to read that a dress was sewn in San Francisco. 
 David Campos, who represents the Mission on the Board of Supervisors, said that there was a real interest in maintaining the character of the community, particularly in the Mission. ''You have to balance that against a need for economic development, but in my view the two are not mutually exclusive,'' he said. ''There are a lot of local shops that are still doing well, and I think government has a responsibility to promote that.'' 
 Cassie McGettigan, a co-founder of Gravel & Gold, a Mission shop that sells goods from local artists, said: ''Retail stores are just catching up to the food world and the whole know-your-farmer, local eating movement. It's about making sure you know where your stuff comes from, and that every place you spend your money has an impact.'' 
 San Francisco's labyrinthine planning code helps the local shopping movement's cause. Neighborhoods, including Hayes Valley and North Beach, have banned chain stores, and any formula retailer, defined as a store with more than 10 locations nationwide, must be approved by the planning commission before it can open in the city. 
 ''The feeling is that potentially, if you allow a number of formula retail stores, you lose neighborhood character and locally owned businesses,'' said John Rahaim, director of the San Francisco Planning Department. The commission weighs that against the number of empty storefronts and businesses that sell similar products, Mr. Rahaim said. 
 The ideology is not confined to San Francisco. In Sausalito, the City Council recently prevented a Peet's coffee shop from opening, and shopkeepers and residents in Berkeley and Oakland have also battled over chain stores. 
 On Valencia, the fight is just heating up. The street is in the midst of a renaissance, sprouting trendy boutiques, antique stores and restaurants to cater to the young hipsters and artists who have moved to the neighborhood. 
 But not everyone is welcome. Last year, tenants and residents in the Mission successfully fought the opening of American Apparel, even though the company boasts about manufacturing clothes in California and paying workers fair wages. 
 Many merchants and residents worried that if American Apparel took a spot on the street, it would be followed by a flood of chains that could pay higher rents and push out independent shops. 
 ''I definitely didn't want them,'' said Gabrielle Ekedal, owner of Gypsy Honeymoon. ''They seem to be a conscious company, but on the other hand, I think it would have started a trend pretty quickly because they're so mainstream.'' 
 Of course, the new independent shops are also displacing other local stores, often owned by Latino immigrants who still run most of the shops on Mission Street, one block from Valencia. 
 ''I am not against all the people coming to the neighborhood, as long as it's not at the expense of the immigrant community being pushed out because they cannot afford the rent,'' said Dairo Romero, community development manager at the Mission Economic Development Agency, which advocates for low-income immigrant entrepreneurs. 
 The drive to maintain the individuality of the neighborhoods is a big reason that San Franciscans support locally owned businesses, said Hut Landon, executive director of the San Francisco Locally Owned Merchants Alliance. But the most important reasons, he said, are economic. 
 ''Economically, locally owned businesses give back more than three times as much as chains,'' Mr. Landon said, ''and even more than online retailers that don't collect tax.'' 
 Civic Economics, a consulting firm for local businesses, was hired by Mr. Landon's organization to study economic activity in San Francisco, Colma, Daly City and South San Francisco. It found that if people diverted 10 percent of their total retail spending to local stores instead of chains, it would add 1,295 jobs and $15.3 million in retail sales to those areas. ''The local business that comes in is going to hire the local lawyers, accountants and advertising,'' said Matt Cunningham, a co-founder of Civic Economics, ''versus the Borders and Wal-Marts of the world, who are going to do that in their headquarters' cities.'' 
 But some economists disagree. Russell Roberts, an economics professor at George Mason University, said that when shoppers hunt down specialized products for the lowest prices -- no matter where the products are made -- they have more money left over to spend in their communities. 
 ''For most of human history, people bought local because trade was limited to things that could be put on boats or camels, and we were poor,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''There's nothing wrong with buying local if it gives you pleasure to buy from people you know, but it is not true that by doing this, you'll benefit the local community in a way that's different from buying outside the community.'' 
 But some shopkeepers worry that banning chain stores can also result in less foot traffic for the local businesses, fewer jobs and more vacant buildings. 
 On a recent Wednesday afternoon, most of the stores on Valencia were empty except for a lone salesperson, and several of the storefronts were boarded up. 
 Sunhee Moon, a clothing designer who has had a store in the Mission for eight years and manufactures her crisp cotton blouses and skirts nearby, is one of the few local business owners who is fine with chain stores opening nearby. 
 ''Business is good for business,'' she said, pointing out that two newer stores on her block have brought more foot traffic. ''If my customers have another two or three places to shop, then fabulous.'' 
 Some Mission residents feel the same way. In response to a post about the American Apparel blockade on the Mission Mission blog, a commenter using the name T1 wrote, ''Now the extra $ I would've spent on the Valencia corridor will instead go to the neighbors of the new Union Square store.''
 But for now, many neighborhood shoppers are willing to pay a premium for locally made goods. 
 Heather Pugh, 25, just got a promotion at the bike store where she works and went shopping at Artist-Xchange, a gallery selling local artists' work, for a necklace to match a new dress. Ms. Pugh said she was willing to pay more for locally made items, especially in this economy, to ensure that the people making things get paid enough. 
 Just as important is the feeling of wearing something that no one else has, she said. ''Who doesn't want to be unique these days.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gabrielle Ekedal, owns Gypsy Honeymoon, an antique store that is located on Valencia Street in the Mission District. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CHEESE (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (63%)

COMPANY: URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (57%)

TICKER: URBN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



721 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 5593 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100527
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE PRIVATE COLLECTION OF HENRY DARGER,' through Sept. 19. This revelatory exhibition proposes, unconvincingly, that the self-taught, reclusive eccentric Henry Darger was an art collector. It presents about 40 of the 100 or so collages, drawings and images from magazines and books that he hung on the walls of his one-bedroom apartment. The revelation is in his collages, which look nothing like the big, lurid watercolors he is known for. Roughly cut and pasted and focused mainly on images of young girls, they are weirdly numinous. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100527 
 ASIA SOCIETY MUSEUM: 'PILGRIMAGE AND BUDDHIST ART,' through June 20. This deftly shaped show, not especially large, spans vast swaths of land and time, from India to Japan and from the first century A.D. almost to the present. Materially it's cornucopian, with all manner of painting and sculpture and a camping store's worth of pilgrim travel gear: rucksacks for sutra scrolls, monastic hiking staffs and fanny-pack shrines, not to mention charts and maps -- some cosmic, some not. The show traces the Buddha's life and the circular path his wandering took between his birth and death in northern India. It also looks at the paths of those who followed him through the centuries and to this day. Some have traveled alone and quietly, others in lively packs. The action in a mural-size pilgrimage painting from 18th-century Nepal looks like a raucous scene from ''The Canterbury Tales'' set in the Kathmandu Valley. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20100527
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'ROAD TO FREEDOM: PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT, 1956-1968' AND 'AFTER 1968: CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS AND THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEGACY,' through Aug. 11. The first of these two complementary traveling shows is a photo-documentary display in the classic sense: a chronological record in pictures of a sustained political gesture, from its Deep South beginnings in the 1950s through the killing of its leader in 1968. The second show is made up of work by younger artists -- Deborah Grant, Leslie Hewitt, Otabenga Jones & Associates, Adam Pendleton, Jefferson Pinder, Nadine Robinson, Hank Willis Thomas -- who directly or indirectly make that history their own. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)20100527
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100527
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'AMERICAN HIGH STYLE: FASHIONING A NATIONAL COLLECTION,' through Aug. 1. This thrilling cornucopia celebrates the transfer of the Brooklyn Museum's fabled fashion collection to the very lucky Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is rich in the work of genuine geniuses like Charles James (daringly sculptural evening dresses), Steven Arpad (prescient shoes) and Sally Victor (inventive headgear). Ditto the House of Worth, which essentially invented haute couture in Paris in the 1870s and dressed generations of wealthy American women. Thumbnail sketches introduce several of these women and others in their roles as fashion plates/art patrons. A no-frills installation argues for the objects of the patrons' passion as art. And historic marvels abound, like a black satin twill gown once worn by the aging Queen Victoria, whose build provides a good reality check here. Anorexic she was not. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20100527
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'NATIONAL DESIGN TRIENNIAL: WHY DESIGN NOW?,' through Jan. 9. The fourth edition of this triennial is the largest yet and the most international in its reach. It's also, hands down, the most ecology-conscious. Design as defined here isn't about how to make the House Beautiful more beautiful, but about how to keep the globe afloat and give all its occupants access to a healthy patch of it. Reduce, reuse, recycle are the imperatives embodied in the work, which includes a hand-cranked grain thresher made from repurposed materials, a light bulb fueled by dirt, and digital images of a new all-green, no-car city to be built in the desert outside Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The architectural projects included are particularly impressive, and if not every idea in the show is strong, many are already generating winds of change. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Cotter)20100527
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'HAUNTED: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY/VIDEO/PERFORMANCE,' through Sept. 6. Drawn primarily from the museum's permanent collection, this show haphazardly traces photography, photo appropriation and their offshoots, backtracking six decades to Warhol and Rauschenberg when three would have sufficed. With few exceptions, the displays are liveliest when closest to the present, in film pieces by Douglas Gordon, Tacita Dean and beyond, as well as the work of younger artists who have devised ways to use appropriation, setup and regular photography (together or separately). Among those are Sarah Anne Johnson and Sara VanDerBeek. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20100527
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'FOR ALL THE WORLD TO SEE: VISUAL CULTURE AND THE STRUGGLE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS,' through Sept. 12. Television was best of friends to the civil rights movement in the 1960s, bringing its valiant images, week after week, into American homes. Pictorial glossies like Life and Look had done a similar service a decade earlier. How did the delivery of such images come about? And why? This absorbing think piece of an exhibition gives some answers, defining visual culture in the broadest sense by interspersing videos and vintage magazines with racially loaded objects from Aunt Jemima salt shakers to Black Panther posters. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)20100527
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'GRAPHIC HEROES, MAGIC MONSTERS: JAPANESE PRINTS BY UTAGAWA KUNIYOSHI FROM THE ARTHUR R. MILLER COLLECTION,' through June 13. Today's graphic novelists owe a huge debt of gratitude to Hokusai, Hiroshige and the artist featured in this engrossing show, Utagawa Kuniyoshi. With wonderful formal and technical ingenuity, Kuniyoshi created woodblock prints illustrating tales of martial conflict, high-seas adventure and mythic triumph and sold them in vast quantities to the 19th-century equivalents of manga and anime fans. He also made portraits of courtesans in fashionable clothes; comical montages of anthropomorphized cats and octopuses; and antic, pornographic cartoons. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20100527
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'MODERN ART, SACRED SPACE: MOTHERWELL, FERBER AND GOTTLIEB,' through Aug. 1. The Millburn, N.J., Conservative synagogue Congregation B'nai Israel is renovating and expanding and has lent some of its art to the Jewish Museum for a small but inspiring exhibition. The synagogue commissioned three large artworks -- Adolph Gottlieb's Torah curtain, Herbert Ferber's exterior sculpture and Robert Motherwell's lobby mural -- for its midcentury Modernist building designed by the architect Percival Goodman. Temporarily installed and amply documented at the museum, they show off the mystical-spiritual side of Abstract Expressionism. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through Aug. 1. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by Xie Zhiliu, a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'SIDE BY SIDE: OBERLIN'S MASTERWORKS AT THE MET,' through Aug. 29. Oberlin College's Allen Memorial Art Museum, now undergoing renovations, has sent 19 of its best paintings and one sculpture to the Met, and they are now hanging in various historically appropriate permanent collection galleries. Follow the map provided by the museum, and you will discover unfamiliar works by Turner, Cezanne, Kirchner, Rothko and others from the Oberlin collection, and you will also revisit many old favorites from the Met's. It makes for a great scavenger hunt. Bring the kids! (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through this fall. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AMERICAN WOMAN: FASHIONING A NATIONAL IDENTITY,' through Aug. 15. The latest extravaganza from the Costume Institute is one of the best and most visually exciting in its history. Laden with sumptuous evening wear, the show celebrates the Met's recent absorption of the Brooklyn Museum's costume collection while tracking the growing independence of women from the 1890s to the 1940s through a progression of stereotypes and fashion silhouettes. This limited but effective approach presents Gilded Age heiresses cosseted in House of Worth ball gowns; sportif Gibson Girls; bohemians in exotic capes by Poiret; flappers in short, sparkling chemises; and screen sirens in flowing, unstructured evening dresses. Wonderful hand-painted murals provide a seductive sense of the time. The wealthy and their ideals of feminine beauty predominate, but even so, a half-century of astounding change is encapsulated. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100527
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PICASSO IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART,' through Aug. 15. This display of nearly every scrap in the Met's stodgy, lopsided Picasso holdings is strongest in the very early work and has some great pictures, including the famed portrait of Gertrude Stein. But the energy drops off as the collection thins out, beginning at exactly the point when the artist turned revolutionary, with Cubism. A concluding salon-style hanging of prints is almost as exhausting to take in as it must have been to install, but it gives a fair idea of why this artist is the awesome and exasperating presence he is. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20100527
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON: THE MODERN CENTURY,' through June 28. Rarely has the phrase ''man of the world'' been more aptly applied than to the protean photojournalist Henri Cartier-Bresson, the subject of a large and handsome MoMA retrospective. For much of his long career, which began in the 1930s and officially ended three decades before his death in 2004, he was continually on the move, covering the better part of five continents, usually sending his film to publishers and agencies for developing and editing. Many of his individual pictures are rightfully classics: those taken in the aftermath of World War II in Europe; at Gandhi's funeral; in China on the eve of the revolution. MoMA carefully mixes pictures chronologically, as if to avoid a comparison of Cartier-Bresson's daring in his early work and his later weakness for sentimentality and stereotypes, but the lack of cumulative moral and emotional intensity in the career, and in the show, is evident. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100527
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: PICASSO: 'THEMES AND VARIATIONS,' through Aug. 30. This subtly excellent show brings together about 120 prints from the museum's collection, nimbly accounting for many of the pinnacles of Picasso's crafty exploration of the various print mediums. It also parses numerous themes -- Saltimbanques, wives and mistresses, Cubist nudes, hommages to the old masters, the burly Minotaur -- and includes stunning recent acquisitions. Revealing as much about the printmaking processes as about Picasso's freewheeling involvement with them, it casts a wide net and arranges its catch with penetrating clarity. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100527
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100527
 NEUE GALERIE: OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this so-called wild man of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as degenerate under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (organized with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, and including the 1921 ''Two Children,'' above) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20100527
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOU COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100527
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary this year, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100527
 RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART: 'REMEMBER THAT YOU WILL DIE: DEATH ACROSS CULTURES,' through Aug. 9. Sooner or later the Grim Reaper will come for each and every one of us. Evenly divided between traditional Tibetan works and Medieval and Early Renaissance pieces from Europe, this fascinating exhibition highlights profound differences in what that means to those two cultures. There are terrific works on both sides, but the West's morbid preoccupation with the perishable body yields the more arresting objects, like the beautifully carved golf-ball-size head of a famous general, half skull and half flesh, carved from ivory by an unknown 18th- or 19th-century Bohemian craftsman. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)20100527
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100527
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100527
 Galleries: Uptown
 EDWARD KOREN: 'THE CAPRICIOUS LINE,' through June 12. Among the many, chuckle-out-loud cartoons in this five-decade survey of works by the much loved New Yorker cartoonist is one that calls to mind the Gulf of Mexico oil disaster. Two plumbers are working on a bewilderingly complicated system of basement pipes. One explains to the worried homeowner, ''We can't tell if it's a malfunction or a dysfunction.'' Wallach Art Gallery, Schermerhorn Hall, Columbia University, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7288, columbia.edu/cu/wallach. (Johnson)20100527
 ISHIUCHI MIYAKO: 'SWEET HOME YOKOSUKA 1976-1980,' through June 25. The photographs in this show are from three separate series dating early in Ms. Ishiuchi's career: ''Apartment'' (1978), ''Yokosuka Story'' (1979) and ''Endless Nights'' (1981). All are grainy, ashen black-and-white images of the city of Yokosuka, where she was born in 1947. It's an industrial town with an old naval base now used by the United States military. Mixed together here, the pictures have a searching retrospective cast: the city is already a ghost town, and her memory of it a post-mortem condition. Roth, 160A East 70th Street, (212) 717-9067, andrewroth.com. (Cotter)20100527
 'TANGUY/CALDER: BETWEEN SURREALISM AND ABSTRACTION,' through June 12. The artworks of Alexander Calder and Yves Tanguy, two old friends, drinking buddies, Connecticut neighbors and innovators in the gap between Surrealism and abstraction are seen alone, together and in quantity for the first time. The 26 pieces span from 1934 to 1956. Some of Calder's sculptures might almost have walked out of Tanguy's paintings, yet the differences are profound. Calder moves peripatetically and amusingly from one idea to another. Tanguy perfects his lifelong style with increasingly solemnity. A delightful, immersive exercise in mutual illumination. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Smith)20100527
 Galleries: Chelsea
 CLAUDE MONET: 'LATE WORK,' through June 26. The Gagosian, in its kunsthalle mode, has assembled a gorgeous, where-on-earth-did-this-come-from loan show of 27 Giverny paintings dating from 1904 to 1922. The earliest pictures of water lilies are small and diaphanous; later, as Monet's world changed and his eyesight deteriorated, the images grow panoramic and dark. The rose arbor paintings in the show's final gallery, dating from 1924, two years before his death, are compact, dense and incendiary. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Cotter)20100527
 MARK RYDEN: 'THE GAY 90S: OLD TYME ART SHOW,' through June 5. Painting and drawing with the skill of a Beaux-Arts academician, Mr. Ryden creates funny and creepy pictures of big-eyed female waifs in bizarre situations. One of his baby dolls appears in a misty park wearing a pink party dress made of slabs of meat. In a Victorian-era outdoor cafe, Abraham Lincoln, wearing a loud green plaid suit, serves a young femme raw hamburger that he has processed through a meat grinder. Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20100527
 ERIC WESLEY: 'D'CARTS BLANCHE AND NEW PAINTINGS,' through June 19. Meta-art -- art about art -- is pretty tired by now. There is not much about Modernism and the art system that it hasn't demystified. Nevertheless, Mr. Wesley impressively invokes some of the genre's basic preoccupations. Giant, Abstract Expressionist-style paintings satirize the myth of the authentic gesture, while three black-and-white vehicles resembling diminutive golf carts -- called ''D'Carts'' -- look ready to roll in a big-time art producer's factory-studio. Bortolami, 510 West 25th Street, (212) 727-2050, bortolamigallery.com. (Johnson)20100527
 Galleries: SoHo
 JOSEF ALBERS/KEN PRICE, through June 5. Pairing a German abstract painter and color theorist, Josef Albers (1888-1976), and a ceramic sculptor, Ken Price (born 1935), is a bit of curatorial genius that can make your eyes feel attached to a bigger, better brain. An intricate dovetailing of works covering several mediums and decades clarifies their individual greatness. The shared passion for strong color juxtapositions is to be expected. Less so are those for Modern architecture, pre-Columbian pyramids, stones, interior spaces (variously erotic, domestic or symbolic) and an oscillation between biomorphic and straight-edged form. Anyone interested in the curatorial arts should see this thrilling show, among the best and most timely to grace a New York commercial gallery. Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street, (212) 925-4338, baeditions.com. (Smith)20100527
 Galleries: Other
 'EMILY DICKINSON'S GARDEN: THE POETRY OF FLOWERS,' through June 13. A collaboration with the Poetry Society of America, this ambitious, multipart exhibition celebrates the great American writer equally as a horticulturalist and as a poet and forges links between the two. Dickinson's 19th-century garden has been recreated in the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory in front of a replicated facade of the home where Dickinson spent much of her life. An archival show in the Botanical Garden's library places her gardening in the context of the time. And a continuing program of readings and seminar-style discussions with contemporary writers throws the spotlight on the floral content of Dickinson's poems -- and on her startling contemporary relevance. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. (Cotter)20100527
 CONRAD SHAWCROSS: 'THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (INVERTED),' through July 10. Part sculptor and part inventor, this young British artist has conjured a remarkable rope trick under the 50-foot-high glass ceiling of 590 Madison Avenue's airy atrium. Complicated machinery slowly weaves a rope as thick as your arm from 162 spools of variously colored strands above. At ground level, a big wooden winch pulls it along and dumps it on the floor. Though not exciting as sculpture, Mr. Shawcross's Rube Goldbergian contraption is a compelling metaphor about time and process. The Sculpture Garden, 590 Madison Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, thepacegallery.com. (Johnson)20100527
 Last Chance
 SHEPARD FAIREY: 'MAY DAY'; closes on Saturday. The designs of Mr. Fairey -- creator of the Obama ''Hope'' poster -- may be effective as street, skateboard or album art. But in a gallery setting, his big posterlike collages look like death warmed over. Starting with well-known photographs of cultural icons, their every trick is borrowed and abused. The small framed works have some life. All else is nostalgia and lack of originality curdled into visual cynicism. Feh. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Smith)20100527
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY'; closes on Sunday. That any of the nine works in this sweet dream of an exhibition sent over from London could easily be mistaken for works from the Frick's own incomparable collection tells you all you need to know about the quality on display. Rembrandt's ''Girl at a Window'' (1645) is the star of the show. Jean-Antoine Watteau's ''Plaisirs du Bal'' (about 1717) is a poetic, happy-sad vision of privileged indolence. Gerrit Dou's Vermeerish ''Woman Playing a Clavichord'' (1665) is preternaturally lucid. Nicolas Poussin's ''Nurture of Jupiter'' (1636-37), in which the toddler-age future king of the gods suckles a goat while a nymph holds him in her lap in a rocky landscape, is otherworldly. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20100527
 PHILIPPE HALSMAN: 'JUMP'; through Friday. The Latvian-born photographer, who died in 1979, first captured professional dancers midflight, then asked people of less athletic accomplishments to jump for his camera. In this show's nearly 50 examples of what Halsman called jumpology, Marilyn Monroe, Aldous Huxley, Richard Nixon and Audrey Hepburn as well as Salvador Dali and three cats go airborne with delirious, often psychologically revealing results. As Schiller wrote, ''All art is dedicated to joy.'' Laurence Miller Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930, laurencemillergallery.com. (Smith)20100527
 JASPER JOHNS: 'INK ON PLASTIC,' closes on Friday. The first show surveying Jasper Johns's 48-year use of ink (and sometimes watercolor) on a non-absorptive vellumlike plastic is, not unexpectedly, lovely but disquieting. The combination can defy control, resulting in pooling, mottling and an illusion of wetness that is inherently unstable and hard to read. Familiar Johns motifs -- flag, flagstone, crosshatch, ale can, catenary -- are dark, as if burning or melting. The works emphasize his inherent fatalism but also his factualism: changing materials changes everything. In this case, the materials' family likeness overrides all else -- a little like death. Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd Street, (212) 570-1739, starr-art.com. (Smith)20100527
 EDWARD KOREN: 'PARALLEL PLAY, DRAWINGS 1979-2010'; closes on Wednesday. A recent cartoon by the witty New Yorker contributor in this entertaining show depicts two bears at the foot of a tree menacing a pair of hikers who have sought safety aloft. One of the unfortunates suggests, ''Tell them how hard we worked to protect their habitat.'' Luise Ross Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 343-2161, luiserossgallery.com. (Johnson)20100527
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'UNEASY COMMUNION: JEWS, CHRISTIANS AND THE ALTARPIECES OF MEDIEVAL SPAIN'; closes on Sunday. Only about 20 years ago did scholars begin to recognize the extent of Jewish participation in the Spanish visual arts in the two centuries before the nation's expulsion of all Jews in 1492. Ranging from a near mural-scale assemblage of panels depicting scenes from the life of the Virgin by Pere Espalargues to an illuminated manuscript version of ''Guide for the Perplexed'' by the Jewish philosopher Maimonides, this historically illuminating show reveals Jewish contributions to Spanish art and a picture of Jewish life in late medieval Spain. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street, (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20100527
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARINA ABRAMOVIC: THE ARTIST IS PRESENT'; closes on Monday. The long-building energy wave of performance art hits MoMA with this four-decade survey of work by one of the form's more visible and magnetic figures. And the show's combination of stressed-out bare flesh on film and live bodies, some nude, in the galleries makes pretty radical fare for the museum. The exhibition is part true endurance-test grit, part pure diva hokum. And it comes with a mission: to demonstrate that it is possible to preserve an ephemeral medium through live re-creations of work in a museum setting. The demonstration falls flat, but Ms. Abramovic herself is performing a new piece. It consists of her sitting absolutely still and staring straight ahead in MoMA's atrium for almost the entire time the museum is open during the show's run, an estimated 716 hours and 30 minutes, all told. Visitors are invited to participate by taking a seat across from her and meeting her gaze. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100527
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS'; closes on Monday. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at MoMA. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it is constantly being reborn. In its current form, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100527
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: '2010 WHITNEY BIENNIAL'; closes on Sunday. In the spirit of the economically bleak two years it represents, the Whitney has made efforts to underpitch its 2010 Biennial, and the show lives up -- and down -- to its billing. There are fewer artists than in the past. Its installation is spartan. Spectacle is out. Much of what's in is quiet and hermetic to the point of looking blank. The prevailing aesthetic is the art of the tweak, minute variations on conventional forms and historical styles: abstract paintings stitched like quilts, performance pieces channeling the 1960s, and so on. The show feels empty where it reflects the retrenched, art-about-art spirit of the moment. But it also has strong work, particularly in video and photography, that speaks of life beyond the art factory. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20100527 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEUE GALERIE: OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this so-called wild man of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as degenerate under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (including the 1921 ''Two Children,'' above) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEE ROYAUX DES BEAUX-ART DE BELGIQUE, ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY, NEW YORK/VG BILD-KUNST, BONN, GERMANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (86%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); RELIGION (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); HIKING (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); WORLD WAR I (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (90%); GERMANY (89%); JAPAN (79%); NEPAL (79%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



722 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: British Takeover Panel Reprimands Kraft

BYLINE: By CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
A panel that decides on takeovers in Britain criticized Kraft Foods on Wednesday for failing to meet the standards of its code.
 Kraft had said in statements, according to the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, that it would keep the Somerdale plant of Cadbury open, but later changed its decision.
 While the panel's statement does not impose a fine on Kraft, it vindicates the many Britons disappointed to see a domestic brand taken over by a foreign rival, and angered at job losses as the unemployment rate hits highs not seen since the mid-1990s. 
 Kraft responded to the panel's criticism by saying it regretted that ''it was not feasible to keep Somerdale open, as we'd originally believed possible. Even though we never made a promise or a commitment to keep the facility open, we recognize that our 'statement of belief' created uncertainty among Somerdale employees.''
 When Kraft first announced its aim to acquire Cadbury last September, Irene Rosenfeld said in the company statement: ''Our current plans contemplate that the U.K. would be a net beneficiary in terms of jobs. For example, we believe we would be in a position to continue to operate the Somerdale facility, which is currently planned to be closed, and to invest in Bournville, thereby preserving U.K. manufacturing jobs.''
 On the night of Jan. 18, however, Kraft learned from Cadbury how advanced the process of closing the Somerdale plant was, and that it would be difficult to keep the site open, the panel said.
 ''Kraft was told on that night that the phased closure of Somerdale was well advanced, that money had been committed, and that both equipment and people had been, or were in the process of being, moved out,'' the panel said.
 Weeks later, Kraft announced that it would not reverse Cadbury's decision on Somerdale. The plant, whose closing was first announced in 2007, employed about 400 people.
 The panel said Wednesday that ''Kraft should not have made the statements in the form in which it did in circumstances where it did not know the details of Cadbury's phased closure of Somerdale and its investment in plant and machinery to make products for the U.K. in its new facilities in Poland.''
 The panel concluded that while Kraft may initially have held the genuine belief that it could keep the plant running, based on the information it had, the American company did not have reasonable grounds for that belief.
 British takeover code says that statements made ''during the course of an offer must be prepared with the highest standards of care and accuracy and the information given must be adequately and fairly presented.''
 The panel also made a point that Kraft's financial adviser, Lazard, had fallen short in its duties, saying that ''financial advisers have a responsibility to ensure that their client and its directors are aware of their responsibilities under the code and will comply with them.''
 Lazard ''failed to discharge fully its responsibilities,'' the panel said, but added that ''the primary responsibility in respect of the Somerdale statements lay with Kraft.''
 The panel is not imposing a fine on Kraft, but its conclusions are not without consequences. Peter Kiernan, the managing director at Lazard involved in the Kraft bid who was set to take charge of the takeover panel, has decided to withdraw his name, the agency said Wednesday in a separate statement. Philip Remnant will continue to lead the panel, it said.
 Kraft said it had decided not to appeal the panel's public reprimand. ''We believe it's best for everyone to put this matter behind us,'' the company said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

COMPANY: CADBURY LTD (92%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (92%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: IRENE ROSENFELD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (72%); POLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



723 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Obama Extends Moratorium; Agency Chief Resigns

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER. 
Anahad O'Connor contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama said on Thursday that he is extending the moratorium on permits to drill new deepwater wells for six more months, as the head of the agency that oversees offshore drilling resigned under pressure.
 S. Elizabeth Birnbaum, who took over as director of the Minerals Management Service last July, disclosed her resignation to colleagues on Thursday morning, just hours before the president was scheduled to hold a news conference to disclose his latest moves to respond to the enormous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
 This comes amid deepening frustration and criticism of the administration's handling of the crisis. Mr. Obama's order is intended to halt further permits for new wells for six months, delay planned exploration in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas off the coast of Alaska, cancel an August lease sale in the western Gulf and cancel a lease sale off the coast of Virginia, said a White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity before the formal announcement. 
 The Virginia lease sale had drawn environmental concerns and objections from the Defense Department. The Alaska project will be delayed for six months while a new presidential commission studies how to regulate offshore drilling. 
 Ms. Birnbaum's resignation came after weeks of questions about whether she was up to the task of remaking the Minerals Management Service, an agency widely recognized as one of the most dysfunctional in government. A Harvard-trained lawyer, Ms. Birnbaum worked as counsel for the National Wildlife Federation before going to work for the House Natural Resources Committee, where she handled legislative and oversight activities for the Interior Department, Forest Service and electric power marketing administrations, according to her official biography.
 She went to work for the Interior Department in 1999, where she provided legal advice, developed regulations and conducted litigation, then left government in 2001 to work as vice president for government affairs and general counsel for American Rivers, an advocacy organization. After a brief stint back on Capitol Hill as staff director for the House Administration Committee, she was named to head the Minerals Management Service by the Obama administration last year.
 Friends described her as smart, tenacious, persistent and tough, but she has also been criticized as doing almost nothing to fix problems that have plagued the agency for more than a decade. She rarely visited the agency's far-flung offices, and critics said the same agency managers who ignored or suppressed scientists' concerns about safety and environmental risks of some off-shore drilling plans in the past were still doing the same things under her.
 In a statement, Ms. Birnbaum said, ''I'm hopeful that the reforms that the secretary and the administration are undertaking will resolve the flaws in the current system that I inherited.''
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar told a House subcommittee on Thursday that Ms. Birnbaum chose to step down. ''She did it on her own terms, in her own volition,'' Mr. Salazar said. ''But I will say this about Liz Birnbaum: She is a strong and very effective person'' who ''helped us in moving forward in addressing what was a very broken system that we found when I came into the Department of Interior.''
 According to a government official briefed on the matter, Mr. Salazar asked Ms. Birnbaum to leave her position as director of the agency, although it was not clear whether she would have another position as he reorganizes the regulatory structure. At that point, she decided to resign altogether, the official said.
 At his news conference, Mr. Obama announced steps to strengthen oversight of the drilling industry and enhance safety as the commission opens its inquiry. The commission will be led by former Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, and William K. Reilly, who was administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the first President Bush.
 The effort to stem further drilling represents a marked turnaround for Mr. Obama, who just weeks before the Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion had proposed to expand offshore oil exploration as a response to the nation's continuing need for new energy sources. But it reflects the volatile and rapidly shifting political environment as Mr. Obama struggles to find a way to demonstrate leadership even as efforts to stop and clean up the spill falter.
 After the news conference on Thursday, Mr. Obama plans to fly to Louisiana on Friday to look more closely into the efforts being made to counter the leak, his second trip to the region since the explosion. Critics who call the disaster Mr. Obama's Hurricane Katrina point out that President George W. Bush traveled to the region more frequently in the early weeks after the hurricane that devastated New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in 2005. 
 Karl Rove, who was Mr. Bush's senior adviser and deputy chief of staff during Hurricane Katrina, argued the case in his Wall Street Journal column on Thursday morning. ''Could this be Mr. Obama's Katrina? It could be even worse,'' he wrote. Mr. Rove recalled Mr. Obama's criticism of Mr. Bush's handling of the hurricane and tried to throw it back at him. ''Mr. Obama's failure to lead in cleaning up the spill could lead voters to echo his complaint in Katrina's aftermath: 'I wish that the federal government had been up to the task.' ''
 The White House has rejected any comparisons with Hurricane Katrina and has bombarded reporters with daily briefings and updates on all the activity taken by the administration in response to the spill.
 ''I would say that his level of frustration is very high and that every moment that that hole is not plugged the president has a deep level of concern,'' Bill Burton, the deputy White House press secretary, told reporters Wednesday. ''And obviously this has been an all-hands-on-deck approach to what has been a pretty big catastrophe, and he's going to continue to do everything that we can and bring in the best and brightest minds to figure out different ways that we can address this until the hole is plugged and until we've mitigated the environmental disaster in and on the water.'' 
 How sweeping the president's new orders will be remains to be seen. After he ordered his initial moratorium on permits for drilling new offshore oil wells and a halt to a type of environmental waiver that was given to the Deepwater Horizon rig, at least seven new permits for various types of drilling and five environmental waivers were granted, according to records. Since the April 20 explosion, the records show, federal regulators granted at least 19 environmental waivers for Gulf drilling projects and at least 17 drilling permits. The administration has said that the moratorium was meant only to halt permits for the drilling of new wells, not to stop permits for new work on existing drilling projects like the Deepwater Horizon.
 A poll released by CBS News this week underscored the growing public impatience with the administration's handling of the crisis. Forty-five percent of those surveyed disapproved of the way the administration has responded to the oil spill, compared with 35 percent who approved. Fully 70 percent disapproved of BP's handling of the situation. At the same time, support for offshore drilling has cratered. While 64 percent favored increased drilling in 2008, just 45 percent do now, according to CBS, while those who say the risks are too great increased from 28 percent two years ago to 46 percent.
 One major oil company, Shell Oil, had been hoping to begin a controversial exploratory drilling project this summer in the Arctic Ocean, which the new restrictions would put on hold.
 Senator Mark Begich, Democrat of Alaska and a staunch supporter of drilling in the Arctic, said he was informed of the new restrictions by the Interior Department. Mr. Begich said he was frustrated because the decision ''will cause more delays and higher costs for domestic oil and gas production to meet the nation's energy needs.''
 ''The Gulf of Mexico tragedy has highlighted the need for much stronger oversight and accountability of oil companies working offshore, but Shell has updated its plans at the administration's request and made significant investments to address the concerns raised by the Gulf spill,'' Mr. Begich said in a statement. ''They make an effective case that we can safely explore for oil and gas this summer in the Arctic.''
 In his statement, Mr. Begich argued that the administration's decision would cost Alaska jobs and money, and force the country ''to export more dollars and import more oil from some unfriendly places, jeopardizing our economic and national security.''
 Mr. Begich has been pushing for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a protected 19-million-acre area along the northeastern coast of Alaska, for some time. Earlier this month, he wrote a joint letter with two other Alaska congressmen urging the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to consider oil and gas exploration in a special, 1.5 million-acre section of the refuge called the ''10-02'' area, named after the section of a bill that expanded the refuge three decades ago.
 ''New technology can now facilitate both a better understanding of the oil and gas reserves within the 10-02 area as well as enable more environmentally responsible development,'' he stated in the joint letter earlier this month. ''Directional drilling techniques would allow extraction of oil and gas from some of the 10-02 area with no surface disturbance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); LAWYERS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); WILDLIFE (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LITIGATION (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); OIL SPILLS (56%); RIVERS (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (84%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



724 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 GLOBAL CURRENT OF LABOR KEEPS FLOWING IN DOWNTURN
 Despite the world's worst economy in 70 years, international migration shows few signs of retreat. Globally, the number of migrants appears undiminished, and last year, they sent home more money than forecasters had expected. PAGE A4
 DEATH TOLL IN JAMAICA RISES 
 After five days of sporadic fighting in Kingston, Jamaica, the police have still not found Christopher Coke, a gang leader wanted in the United States. The death toll has risen to at least 70 amid complaints that the police have used indiscriminate force. PAGE A4
 OBAMA'S SECURITY STRATEGY
 President Obama's first formal national security strategy describes a coming era in which the United States will have to live within its limits, a world with more competing powers and a world where two wars cannot be sustained. PAGE A8
 Political Crisis Looms in Nepal A6
 North Korea to Cut Off Hot Line A9
 Obituaries
 JOHN W. FINN, 100
 The last survivor of the 15 Navy men who received the Medal of Honor for heroism during the attack on Pearl Harbor, he was the oldest living recipient of the medal, the nation's highest award for valor. PAGE A21
 National
 ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW STIRS UNEASE AMONG LATINOS
 When Gov. Jan Brewer signed Arizona's immigration enforcement law, she sought to allay concerns among Hispanics that they would be singled out for scrutiny. But many Latinos believe the police already often single them out and that this will only increase. PAGE A11
 A coalition of music groups has announced that its members will boycott all performances in Arizona to protest the state's new anti-immigration law. The group called the legislation ''an assault on the U.S. Constitution.'' PAGE A11
 DIRECTOR RESIGNS OVER SPILL
 S. Elizabeth Birnbaum, who was director of the Minerals Management Service, became the first high-profile government official to resign in connection with the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. PAGE A14
 Call to Expand Health Plans A12
 New York
 BUILDING PLANS, GROUND ZERO AND THE FIRST AMENDMENT
 Cries of protest have been loud since news spread of plans to build an Islamic center near ground zero. For some, the question of what is proper respect seems to turn solely on religion, and that puts everyone on slippery constitutional terrain. NYC by Clyde Haberman. PAGE A16
 Business
 STOCK MARKET SWINGS AGAIN, BUT THIS TIME IT SWINGS UP
 After days of sudden losses and reversals in the markets, investors rallied around the Chinese government's dismissal of reports that it might pare its European investments. PAGE B1
 A FORD S.U.V., REINCARNATED
 With sales of the Explorer a small fraction of what they were in the S.U.V. glory days, executives at Ford Motor are remaking the it in 2011 as a more fuel-efficient crossover. PAGE B1
 Ford is expected to tell dealers this fall that it is cutting Mercury, a 71-year-old brand that accounts for less than 6 percent of Ford sales and will soon have just two models. PAGE B2
 SALE OF A.I.G. UNIT IN FLUX
 The British firm Prudential is in discussions to lower the $35.5 billion purchase price for American International Group's Asian life insurance unit, people briefed on the matter said. PAGE B3
 Sports
 FOX'S N.F.L. REPORTER HAS CLIENTS WITHIN SIDELINES
 Jay Glazer is a National Football League reporter for Fox Sports and a mixed martial arts trainer to some players. The arrangement raises questions about how he balances competing interests. PAGE B11
 Weekend
 THE LATEST 'IDOL' WINNER
 Lee DeWyze has become the ninth winner of ''American Idol,'' capping its evolution from talent competition to makeover show. Over the course of the season, Mr. DeWyze traveled the space from shy underdog to world killer. PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 OLIVIA JUDSON PAGE A23 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); OIL SPILLS (67%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); RELIGION (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (62%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (62%); F (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%); JAN BREWER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (94%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEPAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010



725 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Medical Marijuana Workers In California Join Union Local

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif. -- Jimmy Hoffa would be stoked.
 In what cannabis fans were calling a high-water mark for their movement to legitimize the drug, about 100 employees of medical marijuana-related businesses in Oakland were welcomed to the ranks of unionized workers on Friday after voting to join the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 5. 
 The move -- which union officials said was the first time medical marijuana employees had been so represented -- was hailed by the local's leadership, who called their new members 'great workers.'' 
 ''This is a natural for us,'' said Ron Lind, the president of Local 5, whose 26,000 other members work primarily in groceries and the meat industry. ''Our union's primary jurisdiction is retail.''
 The move was also welcomed by Richard Lee, the founder of Oaksterdam University, the medical marijuana trade school whose Oakland campus employs some 60 newly unionized members in its dispensary, gift shop and nursery. (For plants, not children.) Mr. Lee that said his employees were already offered health benefits and paid vacation, but that the union imprimatur was an important milestone in the battle to bring marijuana more into the mainstream. 
 ''It's one more step towards ending federal restrictions,'' said Mr. Lee, a leading proponent of a November ballot measure which would legalize, regulate and tax the drug in California. Marijuana, legal for medical use in California and more than a dozen other states, is still prohibited by federal law. 
 Officials in Oakland, which has an unemployment rate of more than 17 percent, also cheered the move -- and the movement -- as a potential boon for the city.
 For the workers themselves, however, their new status as union members was somewhat of a personal triumph.
 ''Now I can go home to my parents and they can see it's a good thing and a normal thing,'' said Cassie Leone, a tattooed 24-year-old who works at a local marijuana dispensary. It made her feel like a ''hardworking human being,'' she said. ''Which is what I am.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MARIJUANA (93%); CANNABIS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



726 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Stadium's Name May Reach Beyond U.S.

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Jets and the Giants are talking to ''two or three'' international companies about acquiring the naming rights to the generic-sounding new Meadowlands Stadium, the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson, said Friday.
 ''They're taking a hard look at it,'' said Johnson, who declined to name the companies.
 In 2008, the German insurance company Allianz nearly put its name on the stadium for at least $25 million a year, but a revelation by The New York Times of the connections the insurer had with the Nazi Third Reich killed the deal. 
 The naming-rights market froze when the recession devastated some banks and carmakers that had put their names on stadiums and arenas. Citigroup was scorned by some for spending $400 million over 20 years to put its name on the Mets' new stadium while taking federal bailout money.
 But two factors should help the Jets and the Giants sell the stadium's name: the slowly recovering economy and the N.F.L.'s decision to award the 2014 Super Bowl to the New York area. The $1.7 billion stadium has other assets: its location in the nation's No. 1 market; the presence of two N.F.L. teams; a guarantee of a game every weekend during the season; and a vigorous commitment to add other events, like concerts and college football and soccer games.
 The Super Bowl adds octane to the teams' efforts to sell the stadium name, although Johnson said that ''it's hard to put a finite number'' on it. ''The Super Bowl is additive to the excitement of the building,'' he said.
 The guarantee of next year's Super Bowl has not led to a naming deal at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex. With business strong at the stadium, the Cowboys' owner, Jerry Jones, is not in a rush to make a cut-rate deal.
 Industry experts wonder if a Meadowlands Super Bowl will help boost the price to what Allianz was willing to pay. ''The days of thinking they'll get $25 million may be gone,'' said E. J. Narcise, the principal of Team Services L.L.C., which last month got Yum! Brands to sign a long-term deal to put its name on the new arena for the University of Louisville men's and women's basketball teams.
 Narcise added: ''Right now, the market is very cautious. It's like a homeowner with a property that has a certain value. Do you sell it now or wait until the market corrects itself? You need patience.''
 The teams have reasons to be impatient. There are fears of a second recession, so waiting for a deal may mean leaving money on the table. The earlier a sponsor signs up, the longer it can tie its image to a stadium. How long do teams want to let the name new Meadowlands burn into fans' brains?
 The pool of naming rights buyers at the highest-priced level is smaller than it was before the recession. Those now in talks can exert more leverage than suitors could before the economy's near-death experience. 
 Ben Sturner, the chief executive of the Leverage Agency, says he thinks the Jets and the Giants are likelier to get $15 million a year for the rights. ''It's still not a prime environment for a long-term, mega-dollar deal,'' he said. 
 And Steven D. Korenblat, a partner at Bryan Cave who negotiated the Citigroup deal with the Mets, said a deal at the Meadowlands could be as short as five years, not for 20 or more, the kind of agreement that provides long-term stability.
 ''That way, the level of financial commitment can be gauged against how quickly the economy can bounce back and sustain a very significant transaction,'' he said. ''What the sponsors are willing to pay is what will govern.''
 He added, rather ominously, ''It's hard to think of a company that is not currently affected by the economy that would want to be the first one to step forward in this market.''
 One indicator of the state of the naming-rights economy occurred this past January when Sun Life, a financial services company, agreed to a five year-deal for a modest net annual fee of $4 million for the naming rights to what had been Land Shark Stadium, Dolphin Stadium, Dolphins Stadium, Pro Player Stadium, Pro Player Park and Joe Robbie Stadium in prior incarnations. The agreement was announced less than three weeks before the stadium hosted the Super Bowl in Miami Gardens, Fla.
 John Mara, whose family is a co-owner of the Giants, said Thursday that if the teams had to wait a year, they would. But he does not think it will take that long to find the right sponsor. ''The activity has picked up in the last couple of months,'' he said. But he said the roster of suitors had not increased since the Super Bowl announcement.
 Johnson, Mara's stadium partner, refused to describe the status of the talks with the international candidates.
 But he said, ''I'm happy to be negotiating with someone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); BAILOUTS (69%); BASKETBALL (65%); SOCCER (65%); AUTOMAKERS (54%)

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (84%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK METS (56%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (84%); ALV (BIT) (84%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



727 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Work Values To Children of Wealth

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Steven D. Hayworth, chief executive of Gibraltar Private Bank and Trust, is thrilled that his daughter will be working this summer at a women's clothing store before heading to college in the fall. It is not the particular job that pleases Mr. Hayworth. Rather, he is hoping his daughter will make the connection between how much she earns each day and what that will buy.
 ''As a parent who has worked his whole life and has had a little bit of success in my career, one of the huge life lessons I learned early on is the value of a dollar,'' said Mr. Hayworth, whose bank is based in Coral Gables, Fla. ''Particularly for children of upper-middle-class and affluent families, there's no perspective on value. When the new Range Rover pulls into the driveway, there's no concept of how many hours of hard work went into owning that vehicle.''
 Unlike many collegebound children today, Mr. Hayworth's daughter would have had no worries if she had not been able to find a job. She could have spent the summer by the pool knowing her parents had the money to put her through college. 
 But the fact that she does not have to work is exactly what worries Mr. Hayworth and many other affluent parents. The recession and tight job market have made it imperative to teach their children the value of work. They worry about that, it seems, more than about any short-term swings in their portfolios. 
 ''This is a tremendously confusing time for families,'' said Matthew E. Brady, head of wealth advisory in the Americas for Barclays Wealth. ''The issue of children is the most important topic that affects our clients. It's the topic that comes up most consistently in every conversation.''
 A whole coterie of experts has sprung up in the last few years to coach the children of affluence into the working world. Gibraltar offers classes in ''financial life skills'' that cover topics including saving, preventing debt and how money affects friendships. J. P. Morgan Private Bank offers what it calls ''Next Generation Leadership'' seminars. 
 This may seem unnecessary, unfair or worse to parents with fewer means and just as many concerns about their children's futures. But the central issue for all parents is the same: how do you raise children who are productive? With summer near, this is a good time to review how parents can truly help their children. 
 HOUSE RULES Parents of various means are facing the prospect of adult children who have to move home because they cannot find a job. 
 Brad Klontz, a financial psychologist and co-author of ''Mind Over Money'' (Broadway Business, 2009), said parents should set ground rules from the outset, including charging children rent. Without rules, there is a risk of what he calls ''financial enabling.'' 
 ''It's financial help that hurts,'' he said. ''You condition them that there will always be enough money -- whatever my needs are, they will always be taken care of.''
 In charging them to live back under your roof, you are also forcing them to become aware of expenses, which many of them may know little about. 
 ''You have to help a kid understand what it means out there,'' said Joline Godfrey, chief executive of Independent Means, a consultant in Santa Barbara, Calif., that focuses on financial education. ''You can't expect kids to go out in the world and be self-sufficient if they don't know what a utility bill is.''
 BAD HELP Parents usually mean well when they try to help their children financially. They do not want their children to fail or they want their children to have a better life than they had. But providing too much can hurt children.
 This is not just an issue for college-age children. When children are younger, overscheduling them into after-school and summer programs robs them of the chance to accomplish things on their own, said Debbie Cox, managing director at J. P. Morgan Private Bank in Dallas. ''They don't have time to get into the community on their own,'' she said. ''Kids just don't have time to get a job any more.'' 
 Hand in hand with this is parents' obsessive focus on formal education. It often comes at the expense of what Ms. Cox calls social and financial education. One thing a tough summer job market could be good for is improving children's social education: volunteering is perfect for this and better than hanging out with friends. 
 ''They need to learn what it's like to get up every morning and get to that job and help someone with something,'' Ms. Cox said.
 Another bad thing for parents to do is always to solve their children's problems. Todd M. Morgan, senior managing director at Bel Air Investment Advisors, a Los Angeles-based company that manages $5 billion, said the tendency among successful executives was to step into their children's lives and fix things as they would in a boardroom. ''Do not offer to fix or change something unless you've been invited to do it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Morgan, who admits to having made this mistake at times, has a motto he shares with clients, ''Don't make the person feel powerless; empower them to make their own decisions.''
 GOOD HELP So what is the right way to help a child struggling to find a job or a career? Ms. Godfrey said it could be difficult to get children started, or what she calls ''launched.'' 
 ''A year ago, when we started to do fairly serious work on the launch process, I thought we were dealing with families who had slackers,'' she said. ''The more we got into it, the more we realized that these were kids who are educated but are having a tough time getting into a purposeful path that will help them maintain their lifestyle.''
 She urges families to set two goals: get children living without subsidies and put them on a career track. ''Those families that treat their kids' launch like any other endeavor are having the most success,'' she said.
 This means parents and children need to discuss expectations. If financial help is involved, it cannot be infinite and that must be explained. But most of all, parents have to realize there is more to be done than just educating their children. 
 ''Seriously middle-class families have said for a long time that the investment I've made in you is giving you a good education and then you're on your own,'' Ms. Godfrey said. ''But now these families are realizing they have a great education, but yikes, it's tough for them to be on their own. Now it's not how much money you have, but how big is your network and how can you connect them.''
 Mr. Klontz said a good way to help is to pay a career counselor for guidance. ''What isn't helpful is, 'Here's a check,' '' he said. ''Once you get them on the parental dole, it's hard to get them off.''
 In this, Mr. Hayworth knows he is fortunate. He attributed his daughter's eagerness to work to her seeing him enjoy what he does. But he said he realized she still has a lot to learn. 
 ''She's not financially competent yet, but she's sensitive to the issue,'' he said. ''On a day that she doesn't sell a lot, and her feet are sore, she'll recognize, 'I made $80 gross and my take-home is $60.' Then she'll say five times $60 is $300, and a decent apartment is $800 a month. That's when you start to think about financial competency.''
 How have you helped your children become more financially independent? Leave a comment at nytimes.com/bucks. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven D. Hayworth, chairman and chief of Gibraltar Private Bank and Trust in Coral Gables, Fla., hopes that his daughter's summer retailing job will teach her the worth of a dollar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



728 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Musicians Differ in Responses to Arizona's New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
For the singer Larry Hernandez, the 2010 Billboard Latin Music Awards should have been a moment of pure celebration. But when it came time for Mr. Hernandez to accept his award as new artist of the year, he got drawn into politics, prefacing his remarks with a condemnation of the tough new immigration law that his home state of Arizona had just adopted.
 ''It is deplorable that they are discriminating against us just for the simple fact of looking Latino,'' he said from the stage. ''It's not fair. We have to say no to that law.'' 
 Mr. Hernandez's name, however, is not on the list of prominent pop music performers who have declared that they will no longer perform in Arizona, one of the most dynamic markets for Latin music and culture. The boycott effort, called Sound Strike and led by the singer Zack de la Rocha of the rap metal band Rage Against the Machine, did get pledges from some big names, including the rapper Kanye West, indie rockers Sonic Youth and the trip hop duo Massive Attack. But it was light on mainstream ''big tent'' performers who can fill stadiums, and included no country music performers.
 Still, the new law has galvanized Latino artists and performers not just in Arizona, but across the country and the hemisphere.
 ''Mexican-Americans are not going to take this lying down,'' the singer Linda Ronstadt, an Arizonan of Mexican descent, said at a news conference in Phoenix last month. The Colombian singing star Shakira flew to the state last month to denounce the law as ''a violation of human and civil rights'' and met with Mayor Phil Gordon of Phoenix and other opponents of the legislation; but she has not signed the Sound Strike pledge. 
 In a telephone interview from Miami, the Colombian folk-rock singer Juanes, who has joined the boycott, said: ''I've performed in Phoenix many times, and it's sad that I'm not going to be able to play there. But from the moment I heard that this bill had become a reality, I felt offended and also that I had to stand in peaceful solidarity with our immigrant brothers who are being made the victims in this.'' 
 Boycott organizers said that additional activities were planned, including a fund-raising concert and a song or video modeled after the Sun City anti-apartheid campaign. Supporters of the boycott indicated that they will also step up their campaign to get performers to take the pledge not to play in Arizona. 
 ''We love Shakira and love her music and thank her for standing with us during the bill's consideration,'' said Alfredo Gutierrez, chairman of the economic sanctions committee of Somos America, a coalition of human rights and religious groups that is leading opposition to the law. ''But ultimately we want her to join the others and not come here commercially.'' 
 Even before the Sound Strike boycott was announced, several acts specializing in Mexican regional music had canceled scheduled appearances in Arizona or decided to skip the state during tours planned for the summer. Among them are the popular singer-songwriter Jenni Rivera, from California, who is scheduled to participate in a protest march on Saturday, and Espinoza Paz and Conjunto Primavera. 
 It is not clear, however, to what extent commercial considerations may also have figured in those decisions. Mexican regional music performers, managers and booking agents said business was suffering even before Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law. They ascribed the decline to what they called a longstanding practice by Arizona law enforcement authorities, especially Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, of stopping fans coming out of arenas, clubs, rodeos, fairs and cantinas that they think will attract illegal immigrants.
 Hispanic leaders and human rights groups contend that the authorities do not dispatch similar ''crime suppression sweeps'' to rock and country music concerts. Michael Nowakowski, who is both a vice mayor of Phoenix and general manager of Radio Campesina, a Spanish-language radio station, said that even Latinos who are American citizens or green card holders are afraid to attend music or theatrical events
 Mr. Gutierrez said, ''It's a purely racial, Hispanic thing, ethnic profiling at its worst.'' 
 Mr. Arpaio's office did not respond to requests for comment.
 During the 1990s, Arizona's Hispanic population grew by 88 percent; figures from the 2010 census are not yet available, but Hispanic residents are now estimated to account for nearly one-third of Arizona's population of more than six million. 
 As a result, Arizona became a musical laboratory that generated popular acts such as El Tigrillo Palma, Los Alegres de la Sierra and Los Pikadientes de Caborca. 
 But Mr. Nowakowski, whose father is Polish-American and whose mother is Mexican, said that a chilling effect was already being felt. He noted that the number of Cinco de Mayo celebrations in his station's listening area was ''down substantially'' this year and that it was hard to find bands willing to play the events because of what he called ''the fear factor.'' 
 Nevertheless he expressed doubts about the boycott strategy. ''I have mixed feelings because it's so broad,'' he said. 
 ''Musicians can really have an impact if they have concerts here and talk about voter registration, like the Rock the Vote campaign on MTV, or offer half off the ticket price if you register to vote,'' he continued. ''It's a platform you can speak from and educate people who are maybe on the edge and confused. The artists need to touch the soul and hearts of people and allow them to be proud of who they are and tell that American story.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); MUSIC (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FUNDRAISING (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



729 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Currently in Vogue On All Sides: Ringing The Deficit Alarm

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Deficits finally matter.
 After years of citing national security, social necessity and economic crisis as sufficient justification to pass costly legislation without paying for it, members of Congress are getting cold feet about continually adding to the national vat of red ink.
 In the House, the leadership was forced this week to jettison popular health insurance subsidies and cut a major tax-and-spending measure in half in a desperate effort to round up votes from moderate and conservative Democrats. In the Senate, 26 Republican senators balked at an emergency war funding bill -- an almost unthinkable position for them in the past -- complaining that it was bloated and irresponsible. 
 Both measures ultimately passed as Congress made a messy pre-Memorial Day exit. But lawmakers say they appear to have reached a turning point when it comes to routine deficit spending. The new attitude could reshape the way Congress does its fiscal business the rest of this year and into the future, and potentially constrain President Obama and Democrats as they pursue their agenda.
 Democrats are already ducking demands that they produce a budget for 2011, well aware that it would be very difficult to balance the conflicting interests of liberal lawmakers pushing for more spending and the centrists and fiscal conservatives who want cuts. 
 It is likely that Democrats will also punt on most of the major spending bills for the year, preferring to hold federal agencies at their current levels rather than get into a pre-election fiscal fight. There is mounting resistance to reflexively extending jobless pay for the long-term unemployed, and other initiatives, like a $23 billion plan to prevent public school teacher layoffs, face serious challenges. 
 The reasons for the new deficit sensibilities are both substantive and politically driven. A growing number of House and Senate members see both the annual deficits and the accumulated federal debt -- hovering now at the $13 trillion threshold -- as time bombs for future generations, the unexploded remnants of a lavish spending spree engaged in by both parties over the past decade.
 At the same time, Republicans have stirred up their core voters and made inroads with independents by accusing Democrats of profligacy since they took charge. The success of the attacks has not been lost on Democrats, who are hearing it regularly from their constituents back home. Republicans, who share blame for the deficits the government ran when they were in power and in particular for the increase in the national debt from the tax cuts and spending increases they passed under former President George W. Bush, are also under pressure to show they have changed their ways as well if they hope to win over the Tea Party set.
 It adds up to serious new reluctance to be free with federal dollars.
 The House fight over the package of safety-net spending, tax breaks for businesses and individuals and tax increases on corporations and wealthy investors was illustrative. A major Democratic priority, it began the week as a nearly $200 billion catchall measure that would have added about $134 billion to the deficit.
 Facing a rank-and-file revolt, Democratic leaders began trimming the measure, first by limiting the length of coverage for some of the more costly programs and saving more than $40 billion. It was not enough. Lacking the necessary votes entering Thursday evening, Democrats sliced the bill again, eliminating health insurance subsidies for the unemployed and health care aid to states -- saving $30 billion or so and getting the deficit impact down to $54 billion.
 The measure then passed 215 to 204, with 34 mainly moderate and conservative Democrats joining 170 Republicans in opposing the bill.
 ''We have to stop spending money we don't have,'' said Representative Jim Cooper, a Tennessee Democrat who voted against the bill. ''I hope deficit reduction fever is catching.''
 While the struggle in rounding up the votes resulted in a cut in the bill's price tag, the House delay was costly in another sense. With the bill stalled in the House, the Senate packed up and left for recess without considering it. As a result, the extension of unemployment benefits will have to wait at least a week, and some Americans relying on jobless pay could see their checks delayed.
 The Senate found itself in a deficit fight of its own, though the outcome was never in doubt. The $60 billion war funding measure the Senate passed late Thursday was certain to be approved given its importance to the Pentagon and military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 But Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, criticized his colleagues for pushing it through without finding spending cuts elsewhere to pay for it, and he was joined by 25 colleagues in opposing it.
 ''Are we in denial in this body?'' asked Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and another opponent. ''Do we think it's just business as usual, that we can just continue to spend, spend, spend and borrow, borrow, borrow?''
 Republicans are eager to blame Democrats. But Democrats note that it was Republicans who initially chose not to pay for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, initiated a series of major tax cuts and started a new Medicare drug benefit that ran up the deficit before Democrats ever took the wheel.
 ''The people who set the fire are now the ones calling the fire department,'' said Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 In any event, the deficit alarm has been sounded and lawmakers are responding. Whether it is too late for them remains to be seen. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 2010, Friday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Due to an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated vote totals in the House. A measure to extend unemployment benefits passed by a vote of 215 to 204, not 245 to 171. A measure to prevent a cut in Medicare payments passed with a vote of 245 to 171, not 245 to 177.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); LAYOFFS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



730 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1753 words

HEADLINE: Placing the Blame as Students Are Buried in Debt

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Like many middle-class families, Cortney Munna and her mother began the college selection process with a grim determination. They would do whatever they could to get Cortney into the best possible college, and they maintained a blind faith that the investment would be worth it.
 Today, however, Ms. Munna, a 26-year-old graduate of New York University, has nearly $100,000 in student loan debt from her four years in college, and affording the full monthly payments would be a struggle. For much of the time since her 2005 graduation, she's been enrolled in night school, which allows her to defer loan payments. 
 This is not a long-term solution, because the interest on the loans continues to pile up. So in an eerie echo of the mortgage crisis, tens of thousands of people like Ms. Munna are facing a reckoning. They and their families made borrowing decisions based more on emotion than reason, much as subprime borrowers assumed the value of their houses would always go up.
 Meanwhile, universities like N.Y.U. enrolled students without asking many questions about whether they could afford a $50,000 annual tuition bill. Then the colleges introduced the students to lenders who underwrote big loans without any idea of what the students might earn someday -- just like the mortgage lenders who didn't ask borrowers to verify their incomes. 
 Ms. Munna does not want to walk away from her loans in the same way many mortgage holders are. It would be difficult in any event because federal bankruptcy law makes it nearly impossible to discharge student loan debts. But unless she manages to improve her income quickly, she doesn't have a lot of good options for digging out.
 It is utterly depressing that there are so many people like her facing decades of payments, limited capacity to buy a home and a debt burden that can repel potential life partners. For starters, it's a shared failure of parenting and loan underwriting.
 But perhaps the biggest share lies with colleges and universities because they have the most knowledge of the financial aid process. And I would argue that they had an obligation to counsel students like Ms. Munna, who got in too far over their heads.
 How many people are like her? According to the College Board's Trends in Student Aid study, 10 percent of people who graduated in 2007-8 with student loans had borrowed $40,000 or more. The median debt for bachelor's degree recipients who borrowed while attending private, nonprofit colleges was $22,380.
 The Project on Student Debt, a research and advocacy organization in Oakland, Calif., used federal data to estimate that 206,000 people graduated from college (including many from for-profit universities) with more than $40,000 in student loan debt in that same period. That's a ninefold increase over the number of people in 1996, using 2008 dollars.
 The Family
 No one forces borrowers to take out these loans, and Ms. Munna and her mother, Cathryn, have spent the years since her graduation trying to understand where they went wrong. Ms. Munna's father died when she was 13, after a series of illnesses. 
 She started college at age 17 and borrowed as much money as she could under the federal loan program. To make up the difference between her grants and work study money and the total cost of attending, her mother co-signed two private loans with Sallie Mae totaling about $20,000. 
 When they applied for a third loan, however, Sallie Mae rejected the application, citing Cathryn's credit history. She had returned to college herself to finish her bachelor's degree and was also borrowing money. N.Y.U. suggested a federal Plus loan for parents, but that would have required immediate payments, something the mother couldn't afford. So before Cortney's junior year, N.Y.U. recommended that she apply for a private student loan on her own with Citibank. 
 Over the course of the next two years, starting when she was still a teenager, she borrowed about $40,000 from Citibank without thinking much about how she would pay it back. How could her mother have let her run up that debt, and why didn't she try to make her daughter transfer to, say, the best school in the much cheaper state university system in New York? ''All I could see was college, and a good college and how proud I was of her,'' Cathryn said. ''All we needed to do was get this education and get the good job. This is the thing that eats away at me, the naivete on my part.''
 But Cortney resists the idea that this is a tale of bad parenting. ''To me, it would be an uncharitable reading,'' she said. ''My mother has tried her best, and I don't blame her for anything in this.''
 The Lender
 Sallie Mae gets a pass here, in my view. A responsible grownup co-signed for its loans to the Munnas, and the company eventually cut them off. 
 But what was Citi thinking, handing over $40,000 to an undergraduate who had already amassed debt well into the five figures? This was, in effect, a ''no doc'' or at least a ''low doc'' subprime mortgage loan. 
 A Citi spokesman declined to comment, even though Ms. Munna was willing to sign a waiver giving Citi permission to talk about her loans. Perhaps the bank worried that once it approved one loan, cutting her off would have led her to drop out or transfer and have trouble paying back the loan. 
 Today, someone like Ms. Munna might not qualify for the $40,000 she borrowed. But as the economy rebounds, there is little doubt that plenty of lenders will step forward to roll the dice on desperate students, especially because the students generally can't get rid of the debt in bankruptcy court. 
 The University
 The financial aid office often has the best picture of what students like Ms. Munna are up against, because they see their families' financial situation splayed out on the federal financial aid form. So why didn't N.Y.U. tell Ms. Munna that she simply did not belong there once she'd passed, say, $60,000 in total debt? 
 ''Had somebody called me and said, 'Do you have a clue where this is all headed?', it would have been a slap in the face, but a slap in the face that I needed,'' said Cathryn Munna. ''When financial aid told her that they could get her $2,000 more in loans, they should have been saying 'You are in deep doo-doo, little girl.' '' 
 That's not a role that the university wants to take on, though. ''I think that would be completely inappropriate,'' said Randall Deike, the vice president of enrollment management for N.Y.U., who oversees admissions and financial aid. ''Some families will do whatever it takes for their son or daughter to be not just at N.Y.U., but any first-choice college. I'm not sure that's always the best decision, but it's one that they really have to make themselves.''
 The complications here go well beyond the propriety of suggesting that a student enroll elsewhere. Colleges don't always know how much debt its students are taking on, which makes it hard to offer good counsel. (N.Y.U. does appear to have known about all of Ms. Munna's loans, though.) 
 Then there's a branding problem. Urging students to attend a cheaper college or leave altogether suggests a lack of confidence about the earning potential of alumni. Nobody wants to admit that. And once a university starts encouraging middle-class students to go elsewhere, it must fill its classes with more children of the wealthy and a much smaller number of low-income students to whom it can afford to offer enormous scholarships. That's hardly an ideal outcome either.
 Finally, universities exist to enroll students, not turn them away. ''Aid administrators want to keep their jobs,'' said Joan H. Crissman, interim president and chief executive of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. ''If the administration finds out that you're encouraging students to go to a cheaper school just because you don't think they can handle the debt load, I don't think that's going to mesh very well.''
 That doesn't change the fact, however, that the financial aid office is still in the best position to see trouble coming and do something to stop it. University officials should take on this obligation, even if they aren't willing to advise students to attend another college. 
 Instead, they might deputize a gang of M.B.A. candidates or alumni in the financial services industry to offer free financial planning to admitted students and their families. Mr. Deike also noted that the bigger problem here is one of financial literacy. Fine. He and N.Y.U. are in a great position to solve for that by making every financial aid recipient take a financial planning class. The students could even use their families as the case study. 
 The Options 
 The balance on Cortney Munna's loans is about $97,000, including all of her federal loans and her private debt from Sallie Mae and Citibank. What are her options for digging out?
 Her mother can't help without selling her bed and breakfast, and then she'd have no home. She could take her daughter in, but there aren't good ways for her to earn a living in Alexandria Bay, in upstate New York.
 Cortney could move someplace cheaper than her current home city of San Francisco, but she worries about her job prospects, even with her N.Y.U. diploma.
 She recently received a raise and now makes $22 an hour working for a photographer. It's the highest salary she's earned since graduating with an interdisciplinary degree in religious and women's studies. After taxes, she takes home about $2,300 a month. Rent runs $750, and the full monthly payments on her student loans would be about $700 if they weren't being deferred, which would not leave a lot left over.
 She may finally be earning enough to barely scrape by while still making the payments for the first time since she graduated, at least until interest rates rise and the payments on her loans with variable rates spiral up. And while her job requires her to work nights and weekends sometimes, she probably should find a flexible second job to try to bring in a few extra hundred dollars a month.
 Ms. Munna understands this tough love, buck up, buckle-down advice. But she also badly wants to call a do-over on the last decade. ''I don't want to spend the rest of my life slaving away to pay for an education I got for four years and would happily give back,'' she said. ''It feels wrong to me.''
 Correction: An earlier version of this column online misstated the benchmark year in a study by the Project on Student Debt. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cortney Munna hoped for the best when she decided to attend New York University. Now she owes $100,000. (B1)
 Citibank gave Cortney Munna $40,000 in loans, though she had already amassed debt well into the five figures. It was like the ''no doc'' loans that home buyers used to get in over their heads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FAMILY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); TRENDS (74%); PARENTING (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



731 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: House Votes To Eliminate Hedge Fund Tax Break

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The House passed a bill on Friday that would end a tax break for executives of investment funds, leaving hedge funds, private equity firms and venture capitalists scrambling to ease the effects of the bill before it is taken up by the Senate next month.
 The measure was part of a broader tax bill, passed by a vote of 215 to 204, that would extend benefits for unemployed people. It seeks to change the tax treatment of ''carried interest,'' which is the portion of a fund's investment gains taken by fund managers as compensation. 
 Under current rules, carried interest is taxed federally at a rate of 15 percent because it is treated as a capital gain. That contrasts with the tax rate on ordinary income, which can be as high as 35 percent.
 The plan approved by the House, which overcame strong lobbying pressure from Wall Street, amounted to a compromise that would tax 75 percent of carried interest as ordinary income and 25 percent as capital gains. It is expected to raise more than $17 billion in tax revenue over the next decade.
 Although similar attempts to increase taxes on carried interest have died in the Senate for three consecutive years, concerns about the nation's billowing debt are so great that Senate leaders say they expect to pass a measure resembling the one approved by the House.
 That has left lobbyists for fund managers searching for ways to mitigate the tax increase. In fact, in the hours before the House vote, opponents of the measure managed to postpone the date it took effect until Jan. 1, 2011. In the coming weeks, they hope to persuade lawmakers to have the tax increase phased in over several years and have a lower percentage of carried interest considered as ordinary income.
 Douglas Lowenstein, president of the Private Equity Council, said he and other lobbyists were also trying to scale back a provision in the bill affecting what they call the ''enterprise tax.'' That provision would require the founders of hedge funds to pay ordinary income tax rates on proceeds they received from selling their firms.
 ''If you sell a building, a bond, or a business, you are taxed for capital gains in this country,'' said Pam Olson, a former Treasury official who now represents the private equity industry. ''This would make us the only business in America denied capital gains treatment, which is discriminatory and unfair.''
 The protracted fight over carried interest underscores the difficulty Congress faces in trying to close tax loopholes for businesses, even at a time of sprawling budget deficits and widespread public dismay about Wall Street's influence in Washington.
 Fund mangers are typically paid a 2 percent management fee plus 20 percent of any profit they generate, the portion known as carried interest. Because their compensation is based on investment performance, they have argued that that money should be taxed at the lower capital gains rate.
 But Victor Fleischer, the University of Colorado professor whose paper on the subject helped prompt Congress to act, said that carried interest should not qualify as capital gains because fund managers risk mostly other people's money rather than their own. ''They're being paid a fee for a service, so it's fair that they would pay the same rates as others who perform services,'' Mr. Fleischer said.
 As recently as January, the prospect of any change in taxes on carried interest appeared remote. Senate leaders had privately assured fund managers that if they needed revenue to pay for a package of tax breaks for certain industries, including wool production and publishing, they would close a loophole that lumber companies had used to claim billions of dollars in clean energy credits.
 But in March, two factors changed. First, Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who had long championed the tax change for carried interest, became chairman of the Ways and Means committee, which writes tax policy.
 Then Congress closed the lumber industry loophole in an effort to provide financial support for President Obama's health care bill.
 As the Senate Democrats sent signs that they were open to a tax increase, investors and their lobbyists mobilized quickly, warning that the proposal could stifle investments that create jobs.
 The Real Estate Roundtable was among those who tried to negotiate an exemption for real estate investment trusts, arguing that the higher tax rates would hurt the recovery of the real estate market.
 Robert L. Johnson, founder of the Black Entertainment Television, said the tax change would inadvertently squeeze out minority entrepreneurs because, he contends, they rely heavily on start-up financing from venture capital and private equity firms.
 ''This legislation would cause a rapid decline in minority private equity firms and possibly eliminate minority participation in this important financial sector of the American economy,'' he said.
 By early this week, Congressional leaders had agreed to reject exemptions for any type of investment fund.
 ''This is an issue of fundamental fairness,'' Mr. Levin said in a conference call on Tuesday.
 During floor debate Friday, carried interest received little mention, except from several Republicans who warned that a tax increase for fund managers would slow the economic recovery.
 ''This is not a time to raise taxes on investments in business. That's a sure way to kill jobs,'' said Representative Lee Terry, Republican of Nebraska.
 As the bill moves to the Senate, lobbyists say they are focusing on a handful of Democrats -- including Robert Menendez of New Jersey, Maria Cantwell of Washington and the chairman of the budget committee, Kent Conrad of North Dakota -- to reach a further compromise that would lessen the sting of the change. One proposal would lower the amount subject to ordinary rates to 60 percent, from 75 percent.
 Mr. Lowenstein of the Private Equity Council said he was encouraged by some of the last-minute changes made this week, before Congress breaks for a weeklong recess, and hoped to further lessen the impact.
 ''We will press our case during the recess and hope to build support for an outcome that is pro growth and advances the recovery,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sander Levin, head of the House Ways and Means Committee, supported changing the tax treatment of ''carried interest.'' Douglas Lowenstein, below, is president of the Private Equity Council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES
 BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (56%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010



732 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 497 words

PERSON: Fritz Sennheiser 

HEADLINE: Fritz Sennheiser, 98, Founder of Audio Electronics Company

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Fritz Sennheiser, the founder and longtime chairman of Sennheiser Electronic, a leading maker of high-end audio equipment like microphones, headphones and infrared listening systems, died on May 17 at his home in Wedemark, Germany. He was 98. 
 The death was announced on the Web site of the Sennheiser Electronic Corporation, the company's United States subsidiary, which has headquarters in Old Lyme, Conn.
 Founded in 1945 in Wedemark with a staff of seven, Sennheiser now employs more than 2,100 people around the world. The company, which is wholly owned by the Sennheiser family, has manufacturing plants in Germany, Ireland and Albuquerque.
 In 2008, Sennheiser recorded sales of about $500 million, according to its Web site.
 Sennheiser professional equipment has long been ubiquitous in the fields of communications and entertainment, used by radio, television and recording engineers worldwide. Its personal audio accessories, including wireless and noise-canceling headphones, are routinely well reviewed in consumer-electronics publications.
 Today, Sennheiser microphones are used by recording artists including Pink, Beyonce and the Jonas Brothers.
 Among the innovations with which the company is credited is the invention, in the 1950s, of the shotgun mike, a slender, highly sensitive directional microphone now widely used in film and television production. 
 Fritz Sennheiser was born in Berlin on May 9, 1912. As a boy, he was fascinated by radios and built a simple crystal receiver. His first love was horticulture, however, and he dreamed of becoming a landscape gardener.
 The deep economic depression then affecting Germany made job prospects in landscaping slim, so the young Mr. Sennheiser studied electrical engineering at the Technical University of Berlin instead. In 1940, he earned a doctorate from the Heinrich Hertz Institute, where he later worked as an engineer.
 In World War II, Mr. Sennheiser helped the German Army with the radio transmission of coded messages.
 After the war, Mr. Sennheiser started the company that would bear his name. Begun as a small electronics laboratory, the young company had a stroke of luck when its first product, a tube voltmeter, was bought in quantity by Siemens, the electronics giant. This led to the development of Sennheiser's first microphone, also for Siemens, in 1947.
 Later Sennheiser products include among the first open headphones. Introduced in 1968, the headphones had flat disclike earpieces that sat atop the ears instead of the traditional deep cuplike ones that encased the ears completely.
 After retiring as Sennheiser's chairman in 1982, Mr. Sennheiser was succeeded by his son, Jorg.
 Mr. Sennheiser's wife, the former Hertha Greiser, died last year. Besides Jorg Sennheiser, who remains chairman, he is survived by a daughter, Karin Sennheiser; three grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fritz Sennheiser (PHOTOGRAPH BY SENNHEISER ELECTRONIC, VIA E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HORTICULTURE (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (74%); WEB SITES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); FILM (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (55%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%)

COMPANY: SENNHEISER ELECTRONIC GMBH & CO KG (92%); SENNHEISER ELECTRONIC CORP (72%); SIEMENS AG (58%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (72%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

JOE JONAS (53%); NICK JONAS (53%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (53%); KEVIN JONAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



733 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Spain News Sends Stocks Into Decline

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Bettina Wassener and Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
If the American markets ever needed a reminder of how volatile Europe has made them this month, they got it on Friday.
 Right after lunch, the Fitch ratings firm announced that it had downgraded Spain's credit rating by one notch, sending indexes on a swift decline of more than 1 percent. It was a stunning reversal in a day that had been in holiday mode, trading quietly lower at the start of a three-day weekend.
By the end of the day, the decline capped what has been a tumultuous month for the equity markets, with all three major indexes down about 8 percent compared with April. 
 ''Nothing like waking us up on a holiday Friday,'' said Win Thin, a senior currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman & Company.
 The development about Spain came after weeks of uncertainty over the European debt crisis dominated the American stock market. 
 Investors have been concerned that what started out as mostly a problem with Greece's public finances would spread to other European countries, generally adding to the possibility of an economic slowdown that would spill over into the United States economy.
 This week Spain took steps to address its budget deficit and the Spanish central bank released new guidelines regarding provisions for bad and doubtful loans. The move came after its rescue of CajaSur, an Andalusian bank that had been paralyzed by property-related losses and had failed to find a merger partner. 
 On Thursday, the Spanish Parliament approved additional spending cuts of $18.5 billion, but the vote was a tight one, highlighting the immense challenges facing policy makers in Europe in their efforts to rein in large budget deficits.
 In its report Friday, Fitch said it thought the Spanish government could find it difficult to carry out some of the cuts. The agency said Spain's unemployment rate, its high level of indebtedness and other factors would hurt private consumption and investment in the medium term. 
 It cut Spain's rating to AA+ from AAA, saying that the downgrade reflected Fitch's assessment that Spain's adjustments would ''materially reduce the rate of growth of the Spanish economy.''
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 122.36 points, or 1.19 percent, to 10,136.63. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 13.65 points, or 1.24 percent, to 1,089.41, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 20.64 points, or 0.91 percent, to 2,257.04.
 ''This should serve as a reminder that while the news stream out of Europe was generally quiet this week, the potential and risk is for more bad news to emerge from time to time and roil markets,'' Mr. Thin wrote in a research note. ''Spain is coming increasingly into the cross hairs due to negative developments in its banking system, and the lines of contagion from Greece are growing.'' 
 ''The euro is, of course, taking it on the chin and has given up all of today's gains,'' Mr. Thin said. 
 The downgrade pushed the euro lower, to $1.2287 from $1.2378 late Thursday.
 Worries about Spain's indebtedness have helped push the three-month London interbank offered rate to 0.536 percent, the highest rate since July 2009 and about double the rate at the beginning of 2010.
 In addition, Spanish banks owe American financial institutions about $197.7 billion, according to the Bank for International Settlements. 
 Seeking the safety of fixed income securities, investors turned to United States Treasuries, and the benchmark 10-year note rose 18/32, to 101 24/32, driving the yield down to 3.29 percent from 3.36 percent late Thursday. 
 On the stock market on Friday, all sectors traded lower, with financials and energy stocks especially hard hit.
 Citigroup lost 6 cents, to close at $3.96. Bank of America fell 44 cents, to $15.74.
 The downward trend in the United States could be reversed in the coming days after the Labor Department releases its monthly snapshot of the jobs market on Friday. A strong report could lure investors back to the market.
 Earlier on Friday, the Commerce Department reported that consumer spending was unchanged in April while personal incomes rose 0.4 percent. Both numbers were less than forecast, and the stagnant consumer spending raised concerns about whether the recovery could slow. In addition, the savings rate rose 3.6 percent in April, from 3.1 percent in March. 
 The Institute for Supply Management reported that manufacturing in the Midwest expanded in May. The index fell to 59.7 in May, from 63.8 in April, but figures greater than 50 signal expansion. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People at a government job center in Madrid on Friday. Spain's Parliament approved $18.5 billion in spending cuts this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL OCHOA DE OLZA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); APPROVALS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%)

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



734 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: They Bet the Rent, and Lost

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The first signs of financial turmoil came at Riverton Houses in Harlem. 
 Then came Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village on Manhattan's East Side.
 Now a third complex built by Metropolitan Life in the 1940s for veterans and middle-class families has run into financial distress after being purchased by speculators during the recent real estate boom. The owners of the sprawling Parkmerced apartment complex in San Francisco announced this week that they would default on their $550 million mortgage, which comes due in October. 
 A partnership of Laurence Gluck of Stellar Management and the Rockpoint Group, which had already lost Riverton Houses in Harlem in March to foreclosure, put out a statement on Wednesday that placed their problems at the 3,221-unit Parkmerced in the context of the current economic downturn.
 ''The landscape has changed dramatically,'' P. J. Johnston, a spokesman for the owners, said in an interview. ''The economy has taken a major hit. Many properties are facing default.'' 
 But just like Riverton and Stuyvesant Town, the owners of Parkmerced sought to take advantage of a roaring market to replace rent-regulated residents with tenants able to pay far higher rates. 
 The owners in all three cases invested substantial sums in upgrading the aging buildings and renovating some apartments. But ultimately they failed to increase revenue enough to cover the debt payments on the properties, which were heavily leveraged. The recession did not help.
 ''It's pretty interesting that they have all ended up in the same place,'' said Andrew Florio, an analyst at Real Capital Analytics, a research firm. ''People assumed they could boost revenues by kicking people out and raising rents.''
 Stellar told the more than 6,000 tenants at Parkmerced, which is spread over 115 acres on the south side of San Francisco, that life would go on as usual. They said they were negotiating with lenders, which include Deutsche Bank, to restructure their debt and would continue with their $1.2 billion expansion proposal to nearly triple the number of apartments at Parkmerced.
 ''Phone calls will be answered and issues addressed, our maintenance team will respond to work orders, and the leasing team will continue to lease new apartments,'' Seth Mallen, an executive vice president for Stellar, said in a statement.
 But so far, lenders have been reluctant to acknowledge the losses and restructure deals that were struck during the boom. And analysts say it remains difficult for owners to refinance large properties at anywhere near the old terms. As Stellar points out, they are not alone; more than $150 billion in commercial loans like theirs have been transferred to special servicers who handle troubled debts. 
 There is $550 million in senior debt on Parkmerced and an additional $52 million in secondary loans, according to the owners, but it is not as heavily leveraged as Riverton or Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village. The default was bad news for the giant California public employees pension fund, Calpers, which invested in all three properties. Calpers has already written off a $500 million investment in Stuyvesant Town.
 Stellar and Rockpoint were forced to give up Riverton Houses after defaulting on $250 million in loans. And Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper, which had been bought by Tishman Speyer Properties and BlackRock Realty for $5.4 billion in 2006, is in foreclosure.
 All three deals had prompted an outcry from tenant advocates who bemoaned the loss of housing affordable to working and middle-class families.
 ''The Bay Area, like New York City, continues to be one of the least affordable real estate markets in the country,'' said Christopher Lund, a spokesman for the East Palo Alto Fair Rent Coalition. ''The Parkmerced is the largest multifamily complex in San Francisco and its 3,200 rent-stabilized units are a key part of the Bay Area's remaining affordable housing stock.''
 MetLife built Parkmerced, Stuyvesant Town, Riverton and a handful of other large complexes in the 1940s amid a national housing crisis in a remarkable effort to provide homes for returning veterans. At Stuyvesant Town, for instance, the company received special property tax exemptions in return for agreeing to build the complex, maintaining relatively low rents and limiting its annual profit to 6 percent.
 At the start of the real estate boom in 2004, private equity firms began buying these kind of meat-and-potato complexes, which they had long eschewed in favor of luxury buildings.
 In 2005, Mr. Gluck and Rockpoint bought Riverton, a middle-class complex where more than 90 percent of the 1,200 apartments were rent-regulated. A year later, Mr. Gluck refinanced his debt with $250 million in loans, allowing him to modernize the lobbies, install new elevators and glass doors, landscape the center courtyard and pocket tens of millions in profit. 
 Rents covered less than a third of the monthly debt payments. Mr. Gluck had estimated he could raise income substantially by converting half the apartments to market rates by December 2011. But by the time he neared default in August 2008, he had converted only 128. The lenders took back the complex at a foreclosure sale earlier this year.
 Tishman Speyer and its partner bought Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village -- 110 buildings with 11,227 apartments on 80 acres -- from MetLife in 2006, the largest deal ever for a single property. Their business plan was essentially the same as that of Stellar Management.
 And like Stellar, they failed to replace rent-regulated residents with tenants willing to pay higher, market rents as rapidly as projected. The partners exhausted $890 million in reserve funds earlier this year. Lenders are now foreclosing on the property, whose value is estimated at about $1.9 billion.
 Stellar and Rockpoint bought Parkmerced the same year they acquired Riverton.
 MetLife built the complex between 1944 and 1952. It consists of 11 13-story buildings with 1,683 apartments and 1,538 two-story townhouses. Its original 206 acres are bound by San Francisco State University on the north, San Francisco Golf Club on the south and Lake Merced to the west. 
 MetLife sold the property to the real estate mogul Harry B. Helmsley for $40 million in 1970, two years after he acquired the Parkchester, another MetLife complex in the Bronx with 12,271 apartments, for $90 million. 
 Parkmerced entered a period of slow decline as Mr. Helmsley and a subsequent owner deferred maintenance and sold small parcels to San Francisco State, according to tenants and the current owners. Increasing numbers of students from San Francisco State have replaced families at the complex. 
 Stellar bought the property in 2005 for $700 million and promptly announced a renovation program, spending, it says, $135 million on new elevators and sprinklers, renovating lobbies and upgrading vacant apartments with new kitchen cabinets and countertops. The units on the upper floors of the towers are now called ''penthouses'' and require special entry keys. 
 ''Stellar Management is probably the best manager we've lived under,'' said Dorothy Lefkovits, who has lived with her husband Martin at Parkmerced for 15 years. But some residents and tenant activists worry that Parkmerced rents will swell beyond the reach of the people for whom it was originally built. 
 There are also mixed reviews of Stellar's proposal, now under review by the city, to demolish the 1,538 townhouses to make way for up to 7,400 new apartments over 20 years. It is part of an plan to create a dense, environmentally sustainable community based on public transportation and wind turbines.
 In the meantime, Stellar's lenders were forced to pay a $6 million tax bill last year when Stellar and its partner could not come up with the money, according to Realpoint, a debt rating agency. And rents in San Francisco have fallen by 8 percent or more, while vacancies are up at Parkmerced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The owners of the Parkmerced housing complex in San Francisco said they would default on $550 million in loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village on Manhattan's East Side, top, and Riverton Houses in Harlem, above, were both put into foreclosure by lenders. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Parkmerced, which was built by MetLife between 1944 and 1952, consists of apartment buildings and two-story townhouses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); FAMILY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (61%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



735 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits Of Frugality

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Here's an unlikely effect of recession: It may actually be helping some Americans improve their health.
 The majority of middle-class Americans say they are healthier because of frugal behaviors during the last year, including cooking at home or spending less on junk food, according to the results of a survey that the financial planning firm First Command Financial Services plans to release this week. 
 Nearly half of those responding to the survey said their frugal behaviors were making them healthier, while another 45 percent said at least a portion of their frugal behaviors were making them healthier.
 ''These survey results reveal an important connection between personal finance and health,'' Scott Spiker, chief executive of First Command Financial Services, said in a statement.
 So what are some examples of the frugal behaviors respondents are engaging in? 
 According to the results, 45 percent of respondents said they have cut back in the last year by cooking at home more often; 30 percent said they were spending less on junk food; 13 percent said they have reduced driving costs by walking or riding a bicycle to work; 10 percent said they have reduced spending on alcohol; and 7 percent said they were growing their own food.
 In contrast, just 2 percent said they had canceled or postponed the purchase of home exercise equipment, 3 percent said they had quit smoking and 6 percent said they had reduced spending on medicine, prescriptions, vitamins and dietary supplements.
 The survey data was collected in April as part of First Command's monthly online survey of about 1,000 consumers in the United States age 25 to 70 with annual household incomes of at least $50,000. The monthly results are compiled by the market research firm Sentient Decision Science, and April was the first month the survey, called the Financial Behaviors Index, asked about the health effects of frugal behaviors.
 Still, some respondents -- 6 percent -- said their frugal behaviors were making them less healthy.
 Do you agree with the survey results? Why or why not? What effect are your frugal behaviors having on your health?
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SMOKING (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); MARKETING SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); SMOKING CESSATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



736 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Producer Is a Friend To Comic Animals

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Cinephiles will undoubtedly hold their noses in horror over ''Marmaduke,'' a forthcoming live-action adaptation of the newspaper comic. Middlebrow drivel! Cinematic sewage!
 The producer John Davis has heard it all before, and then some. After all, ''Marmaduke'' is cut from the same cloth as ''Garfield,'' his critically reviled comic-strip adaptation from 2004. His response? ''Garfield,'' made for a comparatively inexpensive $58 million, when adjusted for inflation, sold more than $230 million at box offices around the world and spawned a sequel and several direct-to-DVD spinoffs.
 ''My taste tends to be pretty much the taste of the public,'' Mr. Davis said. ''I don't really design movies to be commercial. I just make movies I want to see.''
 It would be hard to find a producer whose approach to motion pictures is more in sync with what studios want right now than Mr. Davis. Indeed, as complaints increase from cinema buffs and Hollywood's creative ranks about the lack of studio interest in original ideas, Mr. Davis is busy churning out movies based on what studios do want: so-called branded characters, source material that already has currency in the marketplace. 
 Aside from ''Marmaduke,'' Mr. Davis is working on an ambitious adaptation of ''Gulliver's Travels,'' starring Jack Black, and ''The Sims,'' based on the popular computer game. A movie version of the classic children's book ''Mr. Popper's Penguins'' is in the works, and Mr. Davis is in advanced negotiations to secure the movie rights to the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
 Mr. Davis, 55, is successful at navigating this mainstream swath of the film business partly because he has a rare ability to charm reluctant rights holders, said Emma Watts, the president of production at 20th Century Fox, where Mr. Davis has a first-look deal through 2014. ''He's very adept at securing rights that have been historically hard to get,'' she said.
 Some of his tricks are standard operating procedure for a producer. ''I kept calling the agents and calling the agents and calling the agents,'' Mr. Davis said, referring to ''Mr. Popper's Penguins.''
 Counterintuitively, he also advises rights holders to lawyer up. ''You have successful rights holders who have done it their way and don't understand the studio ways,'' he said. ''I often recommend they hire a great entertainment attorney so it doesn't feel like they're dealing with alien culture. They will know what studio precedents can be changed and not changed.''
 If a historic property has never been made into a movie, there is usually a protective owner behind it who is worried about what Hollywood will do. 
 ''This is why you have to become personally friendly with the rights holders,'' Mr. Davis said. Take Jim Davis (the men are not related), the creator of Garfield and friends. ''Getting that deal done took a tremendous amount of time,'' Mr. Davis said. ''This was Jim's baby.'' 
 Marmaduke, a galumphing Great Dane, pales in the shadow of Garfield, of course. The ''Garfield'' strip, published since 1978, appears in more than 2,500 publications worldwide. ''Marmaduke'' was created by Brad Anderson in 1954 -- that makes the character roughly 392 in dog years -- and appears in about 500 newspapers around the world, according to Doug Stern, the chief executive of United Media, which owns the property.
 The single-panel canine cartoon has seen its popularity increase in recent years -- as the butt of jokes. A 2008 headline in the satirical newspaper The Onion read, ''Some Old Man Still Churning Out Marmaduke.'' Blogs have sprung up to mock the comic, including Joe Mathlete Explains Today's Marmaduke (marmadukeexplained.blogspot.com).
 Even so, a parade of producers has tried to obtain the movie rights and failed, Mr. Stern said. ''I've had a lot of interest in movies built around that character over the years,'' he said, ''but I finally decided to do it with John because he has a reputation for getting stuff done. John is also wonderfully unslick.''
 That's true enough, and surprising for someone with Mr. Davis's pedigree. He has worked on more than 80 movies -- including ''Predator,''''The Firm,''''Grumpy Old Men'' and ''Norbit'' -- that, combined, have earned more than $4 billion at the worldwide box office. He is the oldest son of Marvin Davis, the billionaire oilman and onetime owner of 20th Century Fox, who died in 2004. 
 But like any good showman, Mr. Davis does have a flair for the dramatic. To pitch the idea of ''Marmaduke'' to Fox, he put a Great Dane inside a Mini Cooper -- the dog was so large that its head stuck prominently through the sun roof -- and parked it outside the office of the studio's co-chairman, Tom Rothman. Fox ordered the movie, teaming with New Regency Pictures for a budget of about $50 million. 
 Like ''Family Circus,'' the ''Marmaduke'' cartoon is the product of the Eisenhower era and is written with little irony or attitude. The challenge for Mr. Davis was to figure out how to retool the character in a way that would reliably tickle modern funny bones. The solution: move the dog from Kansas to California and remake him as an awkward teenager trying to fit in with a bunch of snooty purebreds.
 ''He took a brand and then found a story that updates the character and makes it feel fresh again,'' Ms. Watts of Fox said. Owen Wilson supplies Marmaduke's voice; George Lopez voices the dog's feline sidekick, Carlos.
 Box office expectations for ''Marmaduke,'' to be released on Friday, range from a spare opening weekend of $10 million to a solid $25 million, according to surveys that monitor advance interest.
 ''Cinema snobs may roll their eyes, but from way back in film history, talking animals have been a very good business bet,'' said Jeanine Basinger, the chairwoman of the film studies department at Wesleyan University. As an example, Ms. Basinger gave Francis the Talking Mule, which starred in seven Universal Pictures comedies in the 1950s.
 Mr. Davis said he would move away from animal pictures -- he was also behind the ''Dr. Dolittle'' series starring Eddie Murphy -- as his three children get older. Now in their early teens, they have been motivation, Mr. Davis said, in his pursuit of family movies. Still, he does have a soft spot for furry performers.
 ''For 'Dr. Dolittle 2,' I auditioned four bears on a sound stage,'' he said. ''Do I have a great job or what?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The producer John Davis with George, who plays the title role in ''Marmaduke.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (67%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (65%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Marmaduke (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



737 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Communists Could Gain In Czech Vote

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
PRAGUE -- A popular online video here called ''Convince Granny'' urges young Czechs to withhold visits to their grandparents unless the old folks agree not to vote for leftist parties like the Communists in Saturday's elections.
 Modeled on the American comic Sarah Silverman's video ''The Great Schlep,'' which in 2008 appealed to young Jewish voters to persuade their grandparents to support Barack Obama in the swing state of Florida, the Czech video is a testament to the Communist Party's enduring influence here. 
 The creators of ''Convince Granny'' say they conceived the video, which has had more than 600,000 hits since it was posted on YouTube about a month ago, as a necessary weapon against the ascent of the unreconstructed Communist Party, which recent polls indicate could win up to 15 percent of the vote. 
 In addition to the jokes about Grandma's selective memory, the video implores young viewers not to forget the insidious transgressions of the former Communist government, from the exile of the country's leading intellectuals and artists to the execution of its political enemies.
 In an election that is unlikely to yield a majority for either the leftist Social Democrats or the rightist Civic Democrats, analysts say the Communist Party could come closer to real power than at any other time since the Velvet Revolution here overthrew Communism in 1989.
 ''We hate the Communists,'' said Marek Prchal, 35, an advertising executive who helped create the video. ''The Communists should have been banned a long time ago.''
 Analysts say the Communist Party is benefiting from a regionwide disappointment over the failure of liberal parties to live up to the promises of 1989.
 ''The theme across the region is the politics of disillusionment,'' said Anna Matuskova, a political consultant here. ''In the Czech Republic, there is a new generation of young people with iPhones who don't remember Communism and will vote for them as a protest vote.''
 The Communist Party in this country remains the only one surviving in the former Eastern Bloc and, to its many critics, is a dangerous anachronism. The Communists still extol Lenin and Marx, and advocate the redistribution of wealth and the country's disengagement from NATO, making the party a potential spoiler for good relations with the rest of Europe and the United States.
 Eager to keep the Communists out of power, the Social Democrats and Civic Democrats may come together in a grand coalition that could lead to gridlock, political experts here say. But it is also possible that a minority Social Democratic government could come to power dependent on the Communist Party's tacit support.
 Several new political parties could also prove to be decisive in these elections: the recently created TOP 09, a fiscally conservative party led by Karel Schwarzenberg, a pipe-smoking prince and former foreign minister; and Public Matters, which has instituted patrols in Prague removing drug addicts and homeless people from the street.
 The Communists' secret weapon is Katerina Konecna, the youngest member of the Czech Parliament, who at age 28 says she feels as at home wearing designer black stiletto heels as she does reading Das Kapital. The daughter of Communist Party members, Ms. Konecna says that the current crisis of capitalism has proved a boon to the Communist Party among the young, who were drawn by its promises of free education and guaranteed jobs.
 ''People would rather queue up for bananas, than today, when they have to stand in the unemployment line,'' she said.
 Yet the limits of the contemporary Communists' appeal were all too apparent at a rally held Thursday in front of one of the capital's largest shopping malls. Jana Kocianova, 18, a would-be Czech Britney Spears, gyrated and belted out Gloria Gaynor's ''I Will Survive'' in Czech, as a group of 80-something men swayed to the beat, tapping their canes on the pavement.
 Speaking between sets, Ms. Kocianova commended the Communists' social egalitarianism, even as she acknowledged that singing for them was problematic for her. ''It's not cool to be young and to support the Communist Party,'' she lamented.
 But she quickly added, ''I wasn't alive during Communism, so I don't really remember anything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LIBERALISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); FILM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (89%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



738 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Endangered Parks

 BODY:
There are more than 13 million acres of state parks in the United States. The national park system is far bigger -- some 84 million acres -- but state parks are far more heavily used, if only because they are our neighborhood parks. As states look for ways to slash budgets during this recession, state parks are in serious trouble. 
 How bad is the problem? The National Trust for Historic Preservation has put all of the nation's state parks and state-owned historic sites on its list of America's most endangered historic places. New York had closed 55 of the state's 179 parks and historic sites, but the Legislature has now eked out just enough money to keep them all open for another year. In all, 26 states have already closed parks, limited hours, reduced staff and budgets, or deferred maintenance. 
 Closed parks do not simply lie there, waiting patiently for times to improve or for officials and legislators to behave more prudently. Their buildings, roads and bridges deteriorate. They lie open to vandalism. A closed park isn't just any shuttered property. It's a repudiation of the extraordinary value they offer residents. 
 While these times are especially bad, the problem is not new. Budgets for state parks have been slipping for years. The best hope of restoring the parks to solvency may well come from federal intervention, from increased private and nonprofit financing and from state programs that raise money from vehicle registration fees and offer, in turn, free admission to parks. It is critical to keep the parks open for the health of their lands and for the well-being of the citizens who use them -- all of us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); VANDALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HISTORY (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



739 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Spending Was Stagnant in April

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumers earned more income in April but they also spent less, according to government statistics released on Friday, raising some questions about the pace of the recovery. 
 The Commerce Department said that personal income rose by $54.4 billion, or 0.4 percent, in April. Spending increased $4 billion, and was essentially flat. Both were less than economists had forecast. In March, personal income increased 0.4 percent and spending 0.6 percent, based on revised estimates.
 Savings, on the other hand, grew; the rate rose to 3.6 percent in April from 3.1 percent in March. Personal savings were $398.5 billion last month, compared with $342.7 billion in March. 
 Paul Dales, the United States economist for Capital Economics, said the report puts a ''modest dent'' in the outlook for consumption growth in the second quarter
 ''I think consumption has some near-term momentum. The figures are disappointing but they are far from being a disaster,'' he said.
 According to the report, spending decreased on such nondurable items as utilities and groceries. Spending on durables, like cars or household appliances, was flat, compared to 3.7 percent up in March. 
 Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott, said one factor that might have contributed to the drop in April was an early Easter, which sent spending for that holiday into the March calculations.
 Second-quarter consumption is still likely to grow at an annualized rate of about 3 percent, Mr. Dales said, suggesting that the consumer sector is strong enough to weather any adverse effects from the recent financial market turmoil. 
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for May was revised to 73.6 from a preliminiary figure of 73.3. It was up from 72.2 in April but even with the figures for February and March.
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc., said the outlook for consumer spending growth, which typically fueled the economy, would primarily be determined by the pace of the recovery in the job market and the confidence of consumers. 
 Mr. LeBas, of Janney Montgomery Scott, said, ''Jobs growth or spending? That's the critical question raised in the wake of April's solid income growth and disappointing spending numbers.'' 
 The economy has slowly added jobs this year -- 290,000 in April -- but with more than eight million jobs lost since the recession began in December 2007, any recovery is expected to take time. 
 While analysts caution against drawing any conclusions from the April data, they took note of the increase in the savings rate.
 Mr. Dales said that in the past, many people thought they could rely on the increasing value of their houses as a form of savings. 
 ''Now they are returning to old-fashioned, good old cash under the bed, or in the bank, really,'' Mr. Dales said. ''And I think we will probably get a trend toward that over the next 12 months.''
 Mr. LeBas added that ''the broader issue here is that the credit crisis taught the consumer that borrowing is bad, savings is good.'' 
 Over the last several decades, personal spending has been bolstered mostly by borrowing, Mr. LeBas noted. 
 ''If we take out that borrowing, the trajectory has to be much lower,'' he said. ''I think what we are looking at here is a cultural trend that is going to play out over years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Coach retail store in Dallas. Consumers stepped up their savings in April, while spending was flat. Some experts see a long term cultural trend toward frugality in formation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (66%); EMPLOYMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



740 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: N.C.A.A. Is Looking Into Kentucky's Bledsoe

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL and THAYER EVANS

 BODY:
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- Two years ago, Eric Bledsoe was a star point guard without the grades to meet the N.C.A.A.'s minimum standards and needing to find a new high school. He solved both problems by moving to A. H. Parker High School and now, after one season at the University of Kentucky, he is awaiting a lucrative payday in next month's N.B.A. draft.
 The changes in Bledsoe's academic and athletic prospects have attracted the attention of the N.C.A.A., which has sent investigators to at least three places in Alabama to ask about him. The N.C.A.A. does not talk about its investigations, and the scope of this one is unknown. 
 But Bledsoe's academic makeover and the extra benefits he apparently received could be another blow to Kentucky Coach John Calipari, who led teams at Massachusetts and Memphis that had their records and Final Four appearances expunged after rules violations were found under his watch. 
 Interviews with those connected with Bledsoe's life in Birmingham revealed potential violations.
 Brenda Axle, the landlord for the house where Bledsoe and his mother moved for his senior year of high school, said that Bledsoe's high school coach paid her at least three months' rent, or $1,200. By moving there, Bledsoe was eligible to play for Parker, which he led to the Alabama Class 5A title game. Maurice Ford, the coach, denied paying the money. 
 A copy of Bledsoe's high school transcript from his first three years reveals that it would have taken an improbable academic makeover -- a jump from about a 1.9 grade point average in core courses to just under a 2.5 during his senior year -- for Bledsoe to achieve minimum N.C.A.A. standards to qualify for a scholarship. 
 A college coach who recruited Bledsoe said that Ford explicitly told his coaching staff that he needed a specific amount of money to let Bledsoe sign with that university. The coach, who did not want to be named out of fear of repercussions when recruiting in Birmingham, said Ford told him and his staff that he was asking for money because he was helping pay rent for Bledsoe and his mother. Ford denied this, saying, ''I don't prostitute my kids.'' 
 He said he had done nothing wrong, adding: ''I'm a poor black man. And when one black man tries to help another black man, there's always something wrong.'' 
 Calipari did not return a telephone call and text message seeking comment. A Kentucky spokesman said he was tending to his ill mother. 
 That Bledsoe -- a 6-foot-1, 190-pound point guard -- is on the verge of living out his N.B.A. dream would have been hard to envision in the spring of 2008. Bledsoe had lived an itinerant life for much of his high school years, often staying with friends or relatives, while his mother held jobs such as working at an adult book store and doing custodial work at a hospital. 
 By the end of his junior year, Bledsoe had attracted a solid list of college suitors, but the question of where he would play his senior year lingered. 
 Most of Bledsoe's teammates at Carol W. Hayes High School, which was closing at the end of the school year, were transferring to Woodlawn, another local public school. But Steve Ward, his former coach at Hayes, had concerns about Bledsoe's shaky grades and directed him to a local private school, Central Park Christian, where Ward thought Bledsoe would receive the academic attention he needed. 
 Bledsoe met with Levan Parker, Central Park Christian's headmaster and former basketball coach; showed him a transcript; and picked up an application. The next day, though, Bledsoe's mother, Maureen Reddick, called Central Park and said her son was going to attend school in California. Not long after, he enrolled at Parker. 
 Initially, the Alabama High School Athletic Association ruled that Bledsoe was ineligible to play at Parker, based on its transfer rule, but in November 2008 it cleared him to play, said Steve Savarese, the executive director of the A.H.S.A.A.
 The A.H.S.A.A., the Birmingham City Schools Athletic Department and Ward were asked about Bledsoe by the N.C.A.A. assistant directors of enforcement Kristen Matha and Abigail Grantstein. They asked about everything from Bledsoe's grades to his car to the circumstances surrounding his transfer, according to those who were interviewed by the enforcement officers.
 ''Definitely it was suspicious,'' Ward said of the transfer. ''He was in Woodlawn's zone when Hayes shut down. His mom is bouncing around because she doesn't have a steady job, so he moves to Parker's zone. Of course I think it was a little suspicious.''
 The state athletic association did not know who was paying rent for Bledsoe and his mother at the house on Center Street South. Axle, the landlord, said that Reddick signed a one-year lease for $400 a month. But she said she never received any money from Reddick or Bledsoe. She said that Ford paid her for the rent three or four times in cash, usually while Axle volunteered at Parker High School. 
 ''I never paid his mom's rent,'' Ford said. 
 Under N.C.A.A. rules, it is not permissible for a high school student's family to receive rent money from a public school coach. It would be considered an impermissible benefit.
 Efforts to reach Bledsoe and Reddick were not successful.
 When the rent payments stopped being made in early 2009, Axle said that she asked Ford about it on occasion and that he told her he would call Reddick.
 Bledsoe and his mother abandoned the house in May 2009, and, according to Axle, left it in poor condition. When Axle last saw Reddick in June, she asked her who was going to pay the $3,200 she owed in rent.
 ''She said Maurice should have paid me,'' Axle said.
 Ford repeatedly denied Axle's assertion that he paid rent for Bledsoe and his mother. 
 ''If I paid his rent and I paid my rent out of my teacher's salary, what are my kids going to eat?'' Ford said. ''I don't love basketball that much.'' 
 As Bledsoe was blossoming into an elite player, top basketball programs poured into Birmingham to try to get a copy of his transcript. 
 But Ford, who described Bledsoe's academic performance in his five semesters at Hayes as ''awful,'' would not give it up because, he said, it was his policy not to distribute his players' transcripts unless the player was about to go on an official visit, which requires a copy of the student's high school transcript. 
 The New York Times reviewed a copy of Bledsoe's transcript following his junior year. A veteran compliance officer with no ties to a university involved in Bledsoe's recruitment said that while it was not impossible for someone with a record like Bledsoe's to qualify for a college scholarship, he would need ''an extraordinary senior year academically'' to qualify. The compliance officer spoke on condition that he not be identified because he was not authorized to speak about Bledsoe's transcript.
 Bledsoe's grade point average in core courses -- subjects like math and English that the N.C.A.A. requires -- hovered around 1.9 after his junior year, and that included two unusually high grades -- an 86 and an 80 -- he received during his half-semester at Parker as a junior.
 Bledsoe failed to receive a B in a core course at Hayes. He had one B from a summer school class at Woodlawn that replaced a failing grade in English before he attended Parker.
 To meet the N.C.A.A.'s minimum requirements, he would have needed to receive mostly A's at Parker. Ford said that Bledsoe's sum ACT score was a 69, which meant he needed to jump from about a 1.9 to a 2.475 in core courses, according to the N.C.A.A.'s sliding eligibility scale. 
 Ford defended the high grades that Bledsoe received at Parker, both late in his junior year and during his senior year. He said that at Hayes the only care was that Bledsoe was eligible to play basketball. Ford said that his guidance and discipline in forcing Bledsoe to attend class and do his work saved Bledsoe's basketball career. 
 He said that if Hayes had not shut down, no one would have heard ''anything about Eric Bledsoe again because he would have never made it. Never made it. Everything happened for a reason. He was sent to me for a reason.''
 Ford boasted about his academic track record with basketball players and said Bledsoe told him that he could just show up in classes at Hayes, not do work and still receive D's. But Doretta Harris, a teacher at Parker who taught Bledsoe, said that Ford never cared about academics. 
 ''Just winning,'' Harris said. ''That's all.''
 Harris said she taught Bledsoe in economics for nine weeks.
 ''He was a C student at best,'' she said.
 On the court, things could not have gone better for Bledsoe and Ford, a successful veteran coach who left Parker after their one season together to take over at J. O. Johnson High School in Huntsville, Ala. 
 But off the court at Parker, the 2008-9 season was a tumultuous one. During the school year, the principal, Joseph Martin, was reassigned to a middle school and later retired. There was an eligibility scandal with Parker's girls basketball team, and an audit later revealed missing money and merchandise involving Martin. 
 Martin said Bledsoe's grade turnaround at Parker ''isn't hard to do anywhere in Birmingham, Ala., if you make somebody put their feet to the fire.''
 ''I'm not saying it wasn't a challenge,'' he said. ''He knew what he had to do at Parker.''
 Martin said he never saw Bledsoe's final transcript and said his grades were not altered or inflated while he was principal. 
 Martin, in an interview outside his house, praised the teachers at Parker and said that if a student needed help, ''he was going to be with one of these teachers over here who was going to get him what he needed.''
 By all accounts around Birmingham, Bledsoe is a shy and polite young man. And while people here are rooting for him to be selected high in the draft, the question lingers about the path he took to Kentucky. 
 ''The kid couldn't have been nicer,'' said Parker, the Central Park Christian headmaster. ''That's his reputation, a polite and mannerly kid.
 ''But he's clearly been used.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kentucky's Eric Bledsoe, left, with Coach John Calipari last season. Bledsoe's high school grades and living arrangement have attracted the attention of N.C.A.A. investigators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M. J. MASOTTI JR./REUTERS) (D1)
Eric Bledsoe was coached by Maurice Ford, below, when he attended A. H. Parker High School. As a freshman at Kentucky, Bledsoe averaged 11.3 points, 3.1 rebounds and 2.9 assists a game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK ALMOND/THE BIRMINGHAM NEWS
SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS)
 Ford denied that he paid rent for Bledsoe and his mother when they lived at Center Street South in Birmingham, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); CORE CURRICULUM (77%); GRADES & GRADING (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (91%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



741 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Always the Quick-Change Artist, From Skits to Songs to Stand-Ups

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Nearly two months into his gig as the opening act on Conan O'Brien's Legally Prohibited From Being Funny on Television Tour, Reggie Watts has finally gotten over his disbelief that he was offered the job, and his fear that it would be taken away.
 ''When I went into it, I'm like, they're going to kick me out any second,'' Mr. Watts, a 38-year-old musician and comedian, said earlier this week, before the tour comes to Radio City Music Hall on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
 ''After weeks on the road,'' he continued, ''I'm just finally realizing that I'm not the misfit on the tour -- I'm accepted.''
 At first glance, Mr. Watts is not the sort who blends easily into any setting. 
 Sitting in the lobby of the Jumeirah Essex House hotel on Central Park South, wearing a puffy red sweater and gray slacks, with explosive black hair that is less an Afro than a leonine mane, and a beard thick as Brillo, he drew the occasional stare from other guests.
 But Mr. Watts's eccentricity may be his greatest asset, helping him earn this crucial booking and defy an audience's expectations.
 ''I can choose a character to be when I open up a set,'' he said. ''People go, 'Oh, that's him,' and then I switch it later, and they're like, 'Oh, that's not him. Which one's him?' So it works to my advantage.''
 In his monologues, Mr. Watts may adopt any number of personas and accents, whether speaking in British cockney to explain how many Xanax he has taken, or as a ghetto youth with extensive knowledge of economic theory (''this world be crazy, when you be looking at some virtualized numbers that symbolize things that don't exist''). 
 But his signature bits are freestyle musical numbers, in which he sings over his own vocal samples that are played in loops on his Line 6 DL4 effects pedal. The technology-obsessed Mr. Watts calls the device his ''integrated expression platform.''
 Consider a 15-minute track on his new album, ''Why S#!+ So Crazy,'' called ''My History Thus Far.'' It's a doo-wop song in which he recounts his migration from Great Falls, Mont., to Seattle to the East Village to Brooklyn Heights to Williamsburg. (A result, he sings, of wanting to live in ''a place of cliches, a circus assortment of human frames, people who knew the meaning of irony.'')
 If this doesn't sound like a typical, did-you-ever-notice standup routine, that's exactly what appealed about Mr. Watts to Mr. O'Brien, who learned about him from his writers and online video clips.
 ''I wanted the opening act to make a statement about the tour,'' Mr. O'Brien wrote in response to questions sent by e-mail. ''I wanted it to be someone who would surprise people creatively, blend music and comedy, and have a very different voice from my own.''
 ''And,'' Mr. O'Brien continued, ''he may be the only person in the business with hair more shocking than mine.''
 There's nothing contrived about Mr. Watts's nonconformist presentation. (''My hair's always been kind of big,'' he said, before affecting a caveman's voice. ''Me stop shave now.'') 
 Born on an American military base in Stuttgart, Germany, to a black father and a mother he describes as ''a red-haired French chick from the north of France,'' Mr. Watts was raised in Great Falls. There, he took piano and violin lessons from an early age, and performed in his school orchestra until age 16, when he was kicked out for various acts of disobedience. 
 After high school, Mr. Watts moved to Seattle for its thriving music scene, and played in bands with names like Action Buddy, Ironing Pants Definitely and Micron 7. (The last of these groups, he said, collapsed in a spectacular fight ''where the singer jumps on the drummer and the whole band's trying to pull everybody back.'' He added: ''I was really glad I got to experience that.'')
 Mr. Watts found more stability in a band called Maktub, which performed a fusion of rock, jazz and R&B, and released four albums from 1999 to 2007. But he also yearned to perform more comedy, as he had done in high school and in short-lived Seattle sketch groups. Inspired by the anarchic, Marx Brothers-style mischief of the New York comedy trio Stella, Mr. Watts moved here and started playing alternative comedy showcases.
 The comedians that Mr. Watts idolized were equally impressed with him. ''He's like a magician,'' said Michael Showalter, a Stella member. ''He may have a bag of tricks, but there's the illusion of improvisation, that he is creating something before your eyes, and that's very exciting to see.''
 The Internet entrepreneur Jake Lodwick, who documented Mr. Watts's performances in a series of videos on his site vimeo.com, said that his spontaneous songcraft can be perplexing to first-time audiences. 
 ''But everything that is now normal was once weird,'' said Mr. Lodwick, who was Mr. Watts's roommate for nearly three years. ''It's people like Reggie who move the culture forward.''
 Mr. Watts's freeform approach to his work does have its benefits. He has become friends with Brian Eno, the polymath producer and artist, who has invited him to perform at music festivals around the world, and at the 17th-birthday parties of his daughters. But in order to play these shows on short notice, Mr. Watts has maintained a nomadic life and had no permanent address since March 2009.
 Mr. O'Brien, who is preparing to host a new show for TBS in November, said it was too early to say how Mr. Watts's cultural eclecticism might be reflected in that program. But ''finding and promoting talent like Reggie is certainly going to be a priority,'' he wrote. 
 ''If for some reason Reggie won't appear on the show,'' Mr. O'Brien added, ''I know his material pretty well and can always steal it.''
 In the meantime, Mr. Watts is hopeful that his newfound exposure will help him fulfill his very sincere dream of earning $1 million in the next two years. With these funds, Mr. Watts said, he can pursue his wilder technological ambitions, and have a good excuse for turning down Mr. Eno the next time he calls him for a last-minute performance.
 Imagining that conversation, Mr. Watts said: ''I'm sorry, Eno, I'm working on a new split-screen, homogenous brain interface. He's like, 'Oh, really? That's great. I'm working on a gigantic clock that's built inside of a mountain.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I'm just finally realizing that I'm not the misfit on the tour,'' says Reggie Watts, who has been opening for Conan O'Brien. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: ESSEX HOUSE HOTEL (56%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) WASHINGTON, USA (71%); MONTANA, USA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



742 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2210 words

HEADLINE: A Daunting Start of Summer for 5 Gulf State Governors

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON, JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. , SHAILA DEWAN and DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
If all politics is local, then the politics of disaster is personal. 
 This weekend should mark the unofficial inaugural celebrations of summer, especially in the states along the sultry Gulf of Mexico, so used to beaches and barbecues. Instead they are filled with a very different kind of anticipation.
 Few know those stakes better than the governors of the Gulf Five. Four of the five are Republicans, but of different stripes and shades. Most of them have changed their response to the spill as the scope of the disaster has grown more undeniably dire.
 An account of how they have weathered the political storm so far: 
 GOV. BOBBY JINDAL Standing in the sun, tieless, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana rattles off a list of statistics: this many feet of boom requested, this many feet of boom received, this many feet of boom sitting useless on the dock. This many miles of coastline affected by oil - with heavy oil seen here, here and here.
 And, at every occasion, the sum of the collected data: ''This spill,'' Mr. Jindal says, ''fundamentally threatens our way of life.''
 The oil slick, like Hurricane Katrina before it, is a big, impending disaster swirling in from the Gulf of Mexico, requiring a response effort involving all levels of government.
 The flawed response to the hurricane badly damaged the political fortunes of both President George W. Bush, a Republican, and Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana, a Democrat, helping pave the wave for younger, fresh faces like Barack Obama and Mr. Jindal.
 Now this.
 Mr. Jindal, a Republican with national ambition, is not going to leave room for anyone to say that he was not vigorously engaged, did not appreciate the threat or did not know the facts - every single fact - on the ground. Almost daily he tours the coast by helicopter or boat, then returns to land and holds a news conference, surrounded by angry mayors and parish officials who take turns describing the inadequacy of the response effort.
 Mr. Jindal stands alongside administration officials when they visit and thanks them for being on the scene, but from early in the crisis he has criticized the authorities for not responding with urgency to the state's needs.
 The primary cudgel has become a proposal to dredge sand and erect artificial barrier islands to keep oil offshore, a plan that has its detractors but has become an article of faith among state officials and local parish leaders.
 The persistent hammering has worked, to a degree. Adm. Thad Allen of the Coast Guard, the incident commander, said on Thursday that he was reorganizing officers to address complaints that the response effort had been disjointed and slow. And he has given approval to erect one sand barrier out of the six permitted by the Army Corps of Engineers. State officials want 24.
 Mr. Jindal did not let up.
 ''Had we been given approval earlier, we could have built nearly 10 miles of barriers six feet high already,'' he told reporters in Port Fourchon.
 Last weekend, officials from Jefferson Parish and the mayor of Grand Isle, La., declared they were commandeering 40 fishing boats that were signed up to work on the cleanup but were sitting idle as oil seeped into the bays. BP eventually put them to work.
 Asked what he would have done if the mayor had been arrested for such a move, Mr. Jindal sounded like the kind of populist warrior that Louisiana has been particularly fertile in producing.
 ''I told the mayor yesterday,'' Mr. Jindal said, ''if I had the power, I'd pardon him.''
 CAMPBELL ROBERTSON 
 GOV. RICK PERRY It is no secret that Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, a staunch conservative Republican, is pro-business; he often rails against what he sees as onerous environmental regulations. Neither is it a secret that big oil wields enormous influence in Texas politics. After all, most of the billionaires in the state sprang from the oil business, and they are the ones who finance campaigns.
 Still, for the leader of the state with hundreds of miles of coastline on the gulf, Mr. Perry has been unusually quiet about the Deepwater Horizon spill and has made no move to publicly chastise the companies responsible.
 Two weeks after the rig sank and oil started gushing into the gulf, Mr. Perry called the accident ''an act of God'' and warned the federal government not to be too hasty in halting offshore drilling operations until the cause was known. ''I hope we don't see a knee-jerk reaction across this country that says we're going to shut down drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, because the cost to this country will be staggering,'' he said.
 When reporters asked the next day what he meant, he dug in his heels. ''Nobody knows what happened, and I said that in my remarks, that there was a lot of speculation. It could have been an act of God, it could have been, you know, who knows?'' he said.
 That remark drew hoots and catcalls from Democrats, chief among them his Democratic opponent this year, former Mayor Bill White of Houston, who laid out a blueprint for investigating the disaster in a 10-page memorandum.
 Mr. Perry has not changed his position much since then, preferring to stay out of the debate over what BP and its contractors might have done right or wrong.
 JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 
 GOV. HALEY BARBOUR Then there's Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi.
 The governors of neighboring states have expressed grave concern at the sight of the oil slick in the gulf and have emphasized it as a potentially catastrophic threat as they entertain costly, involved and untested proposals that could keep the oil from hitting the shores of their states.
 And while officials next door in Louisiana have railed against BP and the government for not acting with enough urgency, Mr. Barbour's main theme is quite the opposite. Overreaction, he cautions, is the real peril.
 ''A bunch of liberal elites were hoping this would be the Three Mile Island of offshore drilling,'' he said last week to a gathering of the Mississippi Manufacturers Association, according to The Biloxi Sun-Herald.
 The oil slick has threatened coasts like a drunk with a pistol - now aiming it directly at Mississippi, now at Florida, now bearing down on Louisiana. But other than reports of tar balls, it has not made a direct hit on the Mississippi coastline, a fact Mr. Barbour repeats as part of his keep-calm-and-carry-on message.
 ''We haven't had a milk jug full of oil that's got on our coast,'' he said at a news conference in Biloxi on Thursday, much of which was dedicated to a fact-filled defense of offshore drilling.
 Over the weeks that the nation has been watching the uncertain trajectory of the oil in the gulf, Mississippi has faced far more tangible devastation, as a series of tornadoes have left 16 people dead and stretched the resources of the state's emergency responders, who are also monitoring the coast.
 Addressing the oil spill, Mr. Barbour has delivered briefings alongside Adm. Thad Allen of the Coast Guard, requested federal relief for businesses along the coast and appeared with his wife in a BP-financed advertising campaign encouraging tourists to keep coming to the Mississippi coast.
 But while he has acknowledged the harm the spill could do to the state's tourism economy, he has frequently accused the news media of exaggerations. He has described the layer of oil in the gulf as ''very, very, very thin'' and brushed aside comparisons to the Exxon Valdez as hyperbolic. (That was before federal estimates released on Thursday showed the spill had far eclipsed the Valdez in volume.)
 At the news conference in Biloxi on Thursday, Mr. Barbour opened with two points. First of all, the top kill procedure seemed to be working. Second, in light of the president's call for a six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling, he asked that drilling in shallow waters be opened up again.
 CAMPBELL ROBERTSON 
 GOV. BOB RILEY On a recent day on Dauphin Island, Ala., a man named Dan Parker demonstrated how the powdered polymer made by his company, C.I.Agent Solutions, could turn oil into a gelatinous solid that could be picked up off the surface of water. Why, a reporter wanted to know, was it being used in Alabama instead of Louisiana? Because, Mr. Parker said, ''The governor requested us. BP deployed us first to Louisiana, then Alabama stepped up to the plate and said, 'We'll take all you got.' ''
 He added, ''The governor decided he wanted it before the other governor decided he wanted it.''
 Gov. Bob Riley, a Republican nearing the end of his second and final term, has been aggressive about protecting Alabama's small but ecologically rich segment of the Gulf Coast, deploying the National Guard and troops of Tyvek-clad contractors. He made his first flyover April 28 and has visited the coast 17 times since then, his spokesman said.
 The visibility may help improve a reputation that was ravaged by the governor's spoilsport role in a complicated battle over electronic bingo, an issue that has far more traction in the race to succeed him than the oil spill, which has not seemed to register as a big political issue with voters despite a looming primary, according to Gerald W. Johnson, the director of the Capital Survey Research Center.
 It has not seemed to matter that some of Mr. Riley's ideas have not gone well, like his plan to prevent any oil from entering Mobile Bay by using booms and gates. The booms proved impossible to anchor in the strong current.
 Casi Callaway, the executive director of Mobile Baykeeper, an environmental group, said she could have told him that would happen - if she and others with coastal expertise had been consulted. But they have had a difficult time getting through to the decision makers, she said.
 ''For presence, he gets a 100,'' Ms. Callaway said. ''He's flying the area and saying, 'We need protection there,' and pointing, and it's happening to a large degree. But it's not always the areas that are more visible that are more meaningful to protect.''
 Unlike some of his peers, Mr. Riley, 65, has not lashed out at BP or the Obama administration - in fact, he has praised both for their responsiveness to the state's needs. Since the spill, he has had second thoughts about offshore drilling, which he once vehemently supported.
 SHAILA DEWAN
 GOV. CHARLIE CRIST In June 2008, with gas prices at $4 a gallon, Gov. Charlie Crist softened his opposition to offshore drilling because, he said, ''we have to be sympathetic to the pocketbooks of Floridians and what they're paying at the pump for gas, and balance that with any way that our state might be able to contribute in terms of resources.''
 Now Mr. Crist says ''all bets are off.'' Under pressure from Democrats and environmentalists - whom he might need in his independent run for the United States Senate - he has stepped up his anti-drilling remarks, his coastal appearances, and his plans for how to respond. For weeks, he has been saying he wants to bring lawmakers back to Tallahassee for a special session focused on a proposed constitutional ban on offshore drilling, and on tax incentives that would encourage renewable energy sources.
 ''If the oil starts hitting our shores, he will probably do it, because the economic consequences will be brutal,'' said Susan MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida.
 Mr. Crist has been criticized by some for not moving fast enough and forcefully enough to prepare plans to protect Florida's coast or tourism economy. Lawton Chiles III, the son of Florida's former Democratic governor, who is now considering a run for that position, said Mr. Crist should have already set up a commission to vet oil prevention and cleanup plans by cities and counties.
 Instead, Mr. Chiles said, the state is paying $250,000 for technical assistance to a consulting firm, WRS Compass, run by Kathleen Shanahan, the chief of staff for Dick Cheney during the 2000 campaign, and later, Gov. Jeb Bush.
 This week at a cabinet meeting, Republicans and Democrats also attacked Mr. Crist for failing to quickly deploy a promised $25 million payment from BP for advertisements about how Florida's beaches had not been affected by the spill. Don Gaetz, a Republican from the Panhandle, questioned why advertisements were not already up, encouraging tourists not to cancel trips to the state's northwest coast this weekend.
 ''It seems that the state of Florida has not stepped up,'' Mr. Gaetz said. Other officials agreed - leading Mr. Crist to scramble for a response. Within a few hours, he had announced that the money had been received, and that along with ads, live video feeds would be used to show that the beaches were unharmed.
 DAMIEN CAVE 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on May 29 about the political effect the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was having on the governors of the five Gulf states referred incorrectly to their political affiliations. Four of the governors -- not all five -- are Republicans. (Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, who is running for the United States Senate as an independent, has officially changed his voter registration from Republican to ''no party affiliation.'')

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama on Friday in Port Fourchon, La., with Coast Guard officials and, from left, Governors Bob Riley of Alabama, Charlie Crist of Florida and Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LOUISIANA: Gov. Bobby Jindal
TEXAS: Gov. Rick Perry
MISSISSIPPI: Gov. Haley Barbour
ALABAMA: Gov. Bob Riley
FLORIDA: Gov. Charlie Crist MAP: Texas: Site of regular small oil spills, thanks to its many ports, the American home of Big Oil has so far been untouched.
Louisiana: One hundred miles of shoreline has been affected, including marshes, beaches, and inland bays. Economic damage could be severe given $2.4-billion seafood industry.
Mississippi: Some debris from the sunken Deepwater Horizon rig has washed up on the state's beaches, and tar balls found on the shore are being examined.
Alabama: The state's response Web site says, ''Alabama is prepared in the unlikely event our coast is impacted
however, volunteers are not needed at this time.''
 Florida: Sightings of tar balls on beaches -- none traced back to the spill. Some Panhandle hotels report being 30 percent full, or less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); BEACHES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HURRICANES (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); APPROVALS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ARMIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (90%); BOB RILEY (73%); CHARLIE CRIST (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KATHLEEN BLANCO (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



743 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: The Moynihan Future

BYLINE: By JAMES T. PATTERSON. 
James T. Patterson is a professor emeritus of history at Brown and the author of ''Freedom Is Not Enough: The Moynihan Report and America's Struggle Over Black Family Life From L.B.J. to Obama.''

 BODY:
Providence, R.I.
 FORTY-FIVE years ago this month, Assistant Secretary of Labor Daniel Patrick Moynihan began quietly circulating a report he had recently completed about the ''tangle of pathology'' -- out-of-wedlock births, fatherless households -- damaging low-income black families. The title said it all: ''The Negro Family: The Case for National Action.''
 It proved enormously controversial and established its author's reputation as an iconoclast, yet today the Moynihan Report is largely forgotten. Sadly, its predictions about the decline of the black family have proven largely correct. Fortunately, many of its prescriptions remain equally relevant. 
 The report greatly impressed Mr. Moynihan's colleagues in the Johnson administration. Labor Secretary W. Willard Wirtz, forwarding it to the White House, described an accompanying memo from Moynihan as ''nine pages of dynamite about the Negro situation.'' 
 President Johnson then asked Moynihan to help draft his famous 1965 commencement address at Howard University. Celebrating the 1964 Civil Rights Act and a voting-rights bill about to pass, the president nonetheless warned that freedom alone was not enough; changes in the economic and social situation of America's blacks, the focus of Moynihan's report, were likewise pressing. ''We seek not just freedom but opportunity,'' he declared. ''We seek not just legal equity but human ability, not just equality as a right and a theory but equality as a fact and as a result.'' 
 Many black leaders lauded the address. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. told Johnson, ''Never before has a president articulated the depths and dimensions of the problem of racial injustice more eloquently and profoundly.'' 
 In late July, however, escalation in Vietnam began swallowing up money that might have supported the sort of social initiatives Moynihan and Johnson called for. In August, the Watts riots frightened many whites away from backing civil rights causes. Johnson's powerful liberal coalition started to crack, and along with it his chances of passing wide-reaching social legislation. 
 Moreover, when the report was leaked that summer, its unflattering portrait of black families angered militant civil rights leaders. Some charged that Moynihan had ''blamed the victim.'' James Farmer, head of the Congress of Racial Equality, denounced the report as a ''massive cop-out for the white conscience.'' 
 Johnson was afraid to antagonize the civil rights leaders, and the report was soon consigned to oblivion. The moment, Moynihan later lamented, had been lost. Today many Americans continue to regard impoverished black people as undeserving malingerers, while others, still worried about offending black activists, insist that white racism is the sole explanation of racial inequality.
 Meanwhile Moynihan's pessimistic prophecies have come true. In 1965, a quarter of nonwhite births in the United States were out of wedlock, eight times the proportion among whites. Today the proportion of nonmarital births among non-Hispanic blacks exceeds 72 percent, compared with a proportion among non-Hispanic whites of around 28 percent.
 Only 38 percent of black children now live with married parents, compared with three-quarters of non-Hispanic white children. Many boys in fatherless families drop out of school, fail to find living-wage work and turn to idleness or crime. Many girls become poverty-stricken single mothers themselves. 
 There are no magic bullets for the rise of out-of-wedlock births, a trend rooted in the decline in marriage rates and one that has affected other western nations as well. But as Moynihan recommended, we can expand employment programs to help young black people find work. 
 Our major effort, though, must be to help the very young. Black community leaders should collaborate with philanthropists and public officials in multi-faceted programs aimed at advancing the cognitive and social development, and ensuring the safety, of pre-school and school-age children in troubled neighborhoods. 
 Such efforts might be modeled on those of the Harlem Children's Zone, which Barack Obama promised in 2008 to help replicate in 20 cities. The project features a ''baby college'' offering a nine-week parenting program, all-day kindergarten classes, K-12 charter schools, after-school tutoring, summer school, family counseling and a health clinic. In 2008 it reached some 8,000 children in a 100-block area, at a cost of $58 million. 
 None of this is cheap, or a guaranteed success. But if we do not act, the ''tangle of pathology'' that Moynihan described in 1965, having grown far worse, will be impossible to unravel, and America will become more deeply divided than ever along class and racial lines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); RIOTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



744 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: An Unnatural Disaster

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
''Where I was wrong,'' said President Obama at his press conference on Thursday, ''was in my belief that the oil companies had their act together when it came to worst-case scenarios.''
 With all due respect to the president, who is a very smart man, how is it possible for anyone with any reasonable awareness of the nonstop carnage that has accompanied the entire history of giant corporations to believe that the oil companies, which are among the most rapacious players on the planet, somehow ''had their act together'' with regard to worst-case scenarios. 
 These are not Little Lord Fauntleroys who can be trusted to abide by some fanciful honor system. These are greedy merchant armies drilling blindly at depths a mile and more beneath the seas while at the same time doing all they can to stifle the government oversight that is necessary to protect human lives and preserve the integrity of the environment.
 President Obama knows that. He knows -- or should know -- that the biggest, most powerful companies do not have the best interests of the American people in mind when they are closing in on the kinds of profits that ancient kingdoms could only envy. BP's profits are counted in the billions annually. They are like stacks and stacks of gold glittering beneath a brilliant sun. You don't want to know what people will do for that kind of money.
 There is nothing new to us about this. Haven't we just seen how the giant financial firms almost destroyed the American economy? Wasn't it just a few weeks before this hideous Deepwater Horizon disaster that a devastating mine explosion in West Virginia -- at a mine run by a company with its own hideous safety record -- killed 29 coal miners and ripped the heart out of yet another hard-working local community?
 The idea of relying on the assurances of these corporate predators that they are looking out for the safety of their workers and the health of surrounding communities and the environment is beyond absurd. Even after the blowout at the Deepwater Horizon site, BP officials were telling us (as their noses grew longer and longer) that about only 1,000 barrels of oil a day were escaping into the Gulf of Mexico. Nearly a month into the disaster, BP's chief executive, Tony Hayward, was publicly offering the comforting assessment that the environmental damage resulting from the spill would likely be ''very, very modest.''
 They were somewhat wide of the mark (as reputable scientists were telling us day after day after day). We now know, of course, that this is the worst spill in U.S. history, that instead of 1,000 barrels a day, something in the range of 12,000 to 19,000 barrels a day have likely been spewing into the gulf. And the environmental impact can fairly be described as catastrophic.
 The oil companies and other giant corporations have a stranglehold on American policies and behavior, and are choking off the prospects of a viable social and economic future for working people and their families.
 President Obama spoke critically a couple of weeks ago about the ''cozy relationship'' between the oil companies and the federal government. It's not just a cozy relationship. It's an unholy alliance. And that alliance includes not just the oil companies but the entire spectrum of giant corporations that have used vast wealth to turn democratically elected officials into handmaidens, thus undermining not just the day-to-day interests of the people but the very essence of democracy itself.
 Forget BP for a moment. When is the United States going to get its act together? Will we learn anything from this disaster or will we simply express our collective dismay, ignore the inevitable commission reports (no one pays attention to study commissions), and bury our heads back in the oily sand? 
 President Obama said on Thursday that his administration was ''moving quickly on steps to ensure that a catastrophe like this never happens again.'' Well, he can't ensure anything of the kind. And, in fact, his corporate-friendly policy of opening up new regions for offshore drilling (that policy is only temporarily halted) will all but guarantee future disastrous spills. 
 The U.S. will never get its act together until we develop the courage and the will to crack down hard on these giant corporations. They need to be tamed, closely monitored and regulated, and constrained in ways that no longer allow them to trample the best interests of the American people. 
 Mr. Hayward of BP was on television on Friday referring to the Deepwater Horizon explosion and subsequent fouling of the Gulf of Mexico as a ''natural disaster.'' He was wrong, as usual. Like the unholy alliance of government and big business, this tragedy set in motion by Mr. Hayward's corporation is a grotesquely harmful and wholly unnatural disaster. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (87%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HISTORY (71%); OCEANS (68%); MINE WORKERS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); COAL MINING (63%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TONY HAYWARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



745 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Give Them Something They Can Feel

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
There are many things at which the president is extraordinarily gifted. Emoting isn't one of them.
 Thursday, in the opening remarks of his press conference, the president said: ''Every day I see this leak continue I am angry and frustrated.'' 
 I wasn't feeling it. 
 Then, as the press conference was ending, after he had meandered through an unsatisfying mix of defenses and didacticism, he tried again: ''When I woke this morning and I'm shaving and Malia knocks on my bathroom door and she peeks in her head and she says, 'Did you plug the hole yet, Daddy?' '' Score. After all, whose heart doesn't go out to a cute little girl when she worries? 
 People needed to be assured that Obama possessed three basic presidential traits: being informed, engaged and empathetic. As for the first trait, he was superb as always. I think amassing facts is his idea of being warm and fuzzy.
 On the second, he was a bit wobbly. How is it that he didn't know if S. Elizabeth Birnbaum, who was the director of the Minerals Management Service, an agency at the heart of the spill debacle, had resigned or been fired that morning? Maybe he would have known if earlier he had not been in the Rose Garden taking pictures with Coach Mike Krzyzewski and the Duke men's basketball team.
 This is the same coach who famously bristled that Obama should stick to fixing the economy after the president picked North Carolina to win the N.C.A.A. championship in 2009. Maybe the coach could have reminded him that he still had more important things to do. 
 On the third point, empathy, Obama came up short. That is until he invoked his daughter and saved himself. Malia for the win!
 Obama is going to have to dig deep on this one. He can't afford to repeat the messaging mistakes of his first year. He can't afford to let the right hang the Katrina label around his neck.
 The spill is not Obama's fault. It's the result of corporate irresponsibility, ineffective regulation and the government's lack of disaster planning, decades in the making. But, as Obama said, the cleanup is his responsibility, and polling suggests that people are growing unhappy with his handling of it. Two weeks ago, a Pew Research Center survey found that 36 percent of people disapproved of his handling of the spill. This week, a CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll found that 51 percent disapproved.
 Such has been the narrative of his presidency: being treated like the janitor in chief -- mopping up messes made by others and being chastised for leaving streaks. 
 Mr. President, I know that you have a self-professed aversion to appearing angry, but in this case you have every right to be angry and to openly empathize with the anger of others. Otherwise, by running from one label, you risk earning another -- incompetent. You feel me? 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Obama, America and the Gulf 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (60%); DISASTER PLANNING (50%)

COMPANY: OPINION RESEARCH CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (61%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



746 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Strike in China Highlights Gap In Workers' Pay

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and DAVID BARBOZA; Keith Bradsher reported from Foshan, China, and David Barboza from Shanghai. Bao Beibei contributed research.

 BODY:
FOSHAN, China -- After years of being pushed to work 12-hour days, six days a week on monotonous low-wage assembly line tasks, China's workers are starting to push back.
 A strike at an enormous Honda transmission factory here in southeastern China has suddenly and unexpectedly turned into a symbol of this nation's struggle with income inequality, rising inflation and soaring property prices that have put home ownership beyond the reach of all but the most affluent.
 And perhaps most remarkably, Chinese authorities let the strike happen -- up to a point.
 In the kind of scene that more often plays out at strikes in America than at labor actions in China, print and television reporters from state-controlled media across the country have started covering the walkout here, even waiting outside the nearly deserted front gate on Thursday and Friday in hope of any news. All the Chinese reporters disappeared on Saturday morning, however, as the government, apparently nervous, suddenly imposed without explanation a blanket ban on domestic media coverage of the strike. 
 A worker at a factory dormitory said on Saturday afternoon that the strike continued, and police were nowhere in sight at the factory or the dormitory. The authorities have been leery of letting the media report on labor disputes, fearing that it could encourage workers elsewhere to rebel. The new permissiveness, however temporary, coincides with growing sentiment among some officials and economists that Chinese workers deserve higher wages for their role in the country's global export machine.
 And without higher incomes, hundreds of millions of Chinese will be unable to play their part in the domestic consumer spending boom on which this nation hopes to base its next round of economic growth.
 ''This is all because there is a major political debate going on about how to deal with the nation's growing income gap, and the need to do something about wages,'' said Andreas Lauffs, a lawyer at Baker & McKenzie who specializes in Chinese labor issues.
 If wages do rise, that could bring higher prices for Western consumers for goods as diverse as toys at Wal-Mart and iPads from Apple.
 The Chinese media may also have found it a little easier, politically, to cover this strike because Honda is a Japanese company, and anti-Japanese sentiment still simmers in China as a legacy of World War II. Certainly, the strike is hitting Honda hard, as the resulting shortage of transmissions and other engine parts has forced the company to halt production at all four of its assembly plants in China.
 Honda has an annual capacity of 650,000 cars and minivans in China, like Jazz subcompacts for export to Europe and Accord sedans for the Chinese market. Because Honda's prices in China are similar to what it charges in the United States, the cars tend to be far out of reach financially for most of the workers who make them.
 A Honda spokeswoman declined to discuss specific issues in the strike negotiations.
 The intense media coverage may evoke historical memories of the 1980 shipyard strike in Gdansk, Poland, that gave rise to the Solidarity movement and paved the way for the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe. But the reality here is much different.
 Instead of tens of thousands of grizzled and angry shipyard workers, the Honda strike involves about 1,900 mostly cheerful young people. And the employees interviewed say their goal is more money, not a larger political agenda.
 ''If they give us 800 renminbi a month, we'll go back to work right away,'' said one young man, describing a pay increase that would add about $117 a month to an average pay that is now around $150 monthly. He said he had read on the Internet of considerably higher wages at other factories in China and expected Honda to match them with an immediate pay increase.
 Many workers at other factories in southeastern China already earn $300 a month, but they do so only through considerable overtime. And even that higher income is not enough to embark on the middle-class dream in China of owning a small apartment and subcompact car. Officially, though, the government is discouraging heavy reliance on overtime, and workers here said that Honda was not assigning much.
 The strikers said that Honda mainly hired recent graduates of high schools or vocational schools. And so, most are in their late teens or early 20s, representing a new generation of employees, many of whom had not been born when the Chinese authorities suppressed protests by students and workers in Tiananmen Square in 1989 -- a watershed event whose 21st anniversary falls next Friday.
 The profile of striking workers seems to run more along the lines of slightly bookish would-be engineers -- perhaps without the grades or money to attend college -- rather than political activists. Besides their low wages, the workers seem focused on issues like the factory's air-conditioning not being cool enough, and the unfairness of having to rise from their dormitories as early as 5:30 for a 7 a.m. shift.
 Workers said that in addition to their pay, they also received free lodging in rooms that slept four to six in bunk beds. They also get free lunches, subsidized breakfasts for the equivalent of 30 cents and dinners for about $1.50.
 The striking employees said that some senior workers, known as team leaders, had allied themselves with management. But they insisted that the rank-and-file workers were solidly in favor of walkout -- a claim impossible to verify.
 Although China is run by the Communist Party and has state-controlled unions, the unions are largely charged with overseeing workers, not bargaining for higher wages or pressing for improved labor conditions. And they are not allowed to strike, although China's laws do not have explicit prohibitions against doing so.
 Workers at the Honda factory dormitory said that the official union at the factory was not representing them but was serving as an intermediary between them and management. Li Jianming, the national spokesman for the All China Federation of Trade Unions, declined to comment.
 The workers here have been on strike since May 21, with no resolution in sight. But the strike did not come to broader notice until Thursday and Friday as Japanese media began reporting the shutdown of Honda assembly plants, and as Chinese media and Internet sites were allowed to report extensively on those activities.
 The unusually permissive approach of the authorities toward media coverage of the strike follows a decision to tolerate extensive coverage this month of suicides by workers at the Taiwanese-owned Foxconn factory complex in nearby Shenzhen that supplies Apple and Hewlett-Packard.
 The official China Daily newspaper ran a lead editorial on Friday that cited the Honda strike as evidence that government inaction on wages might be fueling tensions between workers and employers. The editorial criticized the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security for not moving faster to draft a promised amendment to current wage regulations because of what the newspaper described as opposition from employers.
 Zheng Qiao, the associate director of the department of employment relations at the China Institute of Industrial Relations in Beijing, said the strike was a significant development in China's labor relations history and that ''such a large-scale, organized strike will force China's labor union system to change, to adapt to the market economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The strike at the Honda transmission factory in Foshan has shut down four auto plants as well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SEDANS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (89%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



747 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 COMMUNISTS COULD GAIN IN CZECH REPUBLIC VOTING
 In the election in the Czech Republic, which is unlikely to yield a majority in Parliament, analysts say the Communist Party could come closer to real power than at any other time since the Velvet Revolution in 1989. PAGE A4 
 ADULT GAMERS IN SPOTLIGHT 
 In South Korea, addiction to online games has long been treated as a teenage affliction. But the case of a couple whose infant died of malnutrition while they played games online has drawn attention to addicted adults. PAGE A4
 AFGHANS REPEL TALIBAN MOVE
 After five days of fighting, Afghan border police, supported by American helicopters, repelled a force of Pakistani Taliban who appeared to have crossed the border to try to carve out a new haven. PAGE A6 
 WEST BANK ROAD PARTLY OPEN
 Israel partly opened a highway that runs through the West Bank to local Palestinian traffic. Many Palestinians see the road as a symbol of Israeli occupation. PAGE A8 
 IMPASSE ENDS IN NEPAL
 Nepal averted chaos when the leading political parties reached a last-minute agreement that prevented the dissolution of parliament and provided another year for the peace process. PAGE A8 
 CHINA VOWS TO BE IMPARTIAL
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China promised that Beijing ''will not protect anyone'' once it had concluded who was responsible for the sinking of a South Korean warship. PAGE A8 
 Obituaries
 GARY COLEMAN, 42
 The former child star of the hit television series ''Diff'rent Strokes,'' he later dealt with financial and personal difficulties. Mr. Coleman suffered a brain hemorrhage after sustaining a head injury. PAGE A17 
 National
 HOUSE PASSES MILITARY BILL WITH PROVISION ON GAYS
 The House adopted an annual Pentagon bill that includes a provision allowing the repeal of the ban on gay and bisexual people from serving openly in the military. The bill also authorizes more than $726 billion in Pentagon spending. PAGE A12 
 NEW HEAD FOR OIL AGENCY
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar named Bob Abbey, director of the department's Bureau of Land Management, as interim director of the Minerals Management Service, the agency responsible for oversight of offshore drilling. PAGE A10 
 TESTIMONY ON OIL RIG BLAST
 In testimony before an investigative panel of Coast Guard and government officials, new details emerged about the final actions of the crew aboard the oil rig that exploded on April 20, killing 11 workers and triggering a massive oil spill. PAGE A10 
 INSISTENT ON IMMIGRATION
 Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a nine-term Democrat from Illinois, has become a noisy, needling outsider, attacking President Obama for not pushing harder for an overhaul of immigration laws. PAGE A13 
 A RADIO SHOW ON FAITH
 Krista Tippet went from being a scholar and a diplomat to founding and hosting ''Speaking of Faith,'' which was once met with skepticism in public-radio circles but now attracts 600,000 listeners every Sunday morning. On Religion by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE A13 
 New York
 AN INDIAN HIP-HOP ARTIST ALSO HELPS TENANTS IN NEED
 Bikram Singh has two careers. He is a lawyer who defends poor tenants on the brink of eviction and provides legal services at a Hindu senior center. He is also an Indian hip-hop artist who performs Bhangra fusion, an urban take on Punjabi music. Big City by Susan Dominus. PAGE A15 
 Business
 IPAD SALES ABROAD SHOW WANING OF JAPANESE TECH
 Apple's iPad, which went on sale in Japan and eight other countries, is threatening to bring upheaval to an ever-widening pool of industries in a nation once proud of being on the cutting edge of technology. PAGE B3 
 STOCKS SENT INTO DECLINE
 The Fitch ratings firm announced that it had downgraded Spain's credit rating by one notch, sending stock indexes in the United States on a swift decline. PAGE B1 
 HOUSE ENDS TAX BREAK
 The House passed legislation that would end a significant tax break for executives of investment funds. The measure was part of a broader tax bill that would extend benefits for unemployed workers. PAGE B1
 BOOM TO BUST, A TRILOGY
 The Parkmerced apartment complex in San Francisco became the third major complex built by Metropolitan Life in the 1940s to run into financial distress after being purchased by speculators. PAGE B1 
 STAR DESIGNERS ARE OUT
 A post-recession strategy, likely to define luxury brand management into the future, has emerged from a week packed with designer changes at European fashion houses. The era of the star designer is over. PAGE B2 
 CONSUMER SPENDING IS LEVEL
 Consumers earned more income in April but they also spent less, according to government statistics, raising some questions about the pace of the recovery. PAGE B3 
 Sports
 AFTER TWO DAYS OF RAIN, A FULL SLATE AT FRENCH OPEN
 The French Open played catch-up, threading together second- and third-round matches into a one-day extravaganza. Eleven of the top 12 men's seeds were in action. Six of the top seven women were. Almost all of them won easily. PAGE B9 
 Arts
 ONE MAN WON THE BATTLE; THE OTHER WON HEARTS
 An exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History recounts how the winner of the race to the South Pole, the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen, ended up behind his British rival, Robert Falcon Scott, in terms of reputations. A review by Edward Rothstein. PAGE C1 
 PRODUCER MINES CARTOONS
 It would be hard to find a producer whose approach to motion pictures is more in sync with what studios want right now than John Davis, whose latest film is ''Marmaduke,'' a live-action adaptation of the newspaper comic. PAGE C1 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19 
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19
 Online
 VIDEO Barbecue season unofficially begins Memorial Day weekend, but for some families it kicks off with the first sunny days of spring.
 nytimes.com/nyregion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); HEAD INJURIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); TALIBAN (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (65%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%); DEFENSE SPENDING (63%); OIL SPILLS (61%); PUBLIC RADIO (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); MALNUTRITION (56%); HELICOPTERS (55%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (58%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NEPAL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



748 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 591 words

PERSON: Maurice J. Williams 

HEADLINE: Maurice J. Williams, 89, Directed U. N. Food Aid

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Maurice J. Williams, who coordinated American disaster-relief efforts and then led a United Nations agency dedicated to relieving world hunger while warning repeatedly that not enough was being done to achieve that goal, died on May 10 in Bethesda, Md. He was 89 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla.
 The cause was complications from a fall, his son Jon said. 
Mr. Williams, an expert in international development policy, was director of the United Nations Food Council from 1978 to 1986. An arm of the General Assembly, the agency was established in 1974 to coordinate food programs of other United Nations agencies and national governments. Under Mr. Williams, the council concentrated on helping developing countries formulate strategies for food production, nutrition and disaster preparation.
 The council was formed shortly after the first World Food Conference was held in Rome. That meeting, at a time when famine was threatening swaths of Africa and Asia, led to a United Nations pledge to eradicate hunger and malnutrition.
 Five years later, although the sense of global crisis had dissipated because of improved crop yields, Mr. Williams warned, ''It is not possible to be optimistic or complacent in the face of evidence which indicates that there are probably more hungry and malnourished people in 1979 than the 450 million to whom the 1974 conference directed its attention.''
 Mr. Williams was no less concerned in 1984. ''There is still famine in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa,'' he said then. ''You still have hungry people on marginal land in parts of Asia and Latin America. In the slums of their cities people still go to bed hungry every night, unable to earn enough to buy food that is available.'' 
 Mr. Williams retired from the World Food Council in 1986; 10 years later its functions were taken over by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Food Program. 
 His leadership of the council was the culmination of nearly four decades of public service, including many missions abroad during famines and other disasters. 
 Mr. Williams was an international economist with the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency in the 1950s. He was director of the United States Agency for International Development's aid programs in Iran and Pakistan from 1963 to 1967 and deputy administrator of the agency from 1970 to 1974.
 When an earthquake devastated much of Managua, Nicaragua, in December 1972, President Richard M. Nixon sent Mr. Williams to administer American aid efforts there. He had previously coordinated American disaster relief in Peru, the Philippines, six drought-stricken West African countries and for the newly independent Bangladesh after the India-Pakistan war in 1971. 
 Maurice Jacoutot Williams was born in New Brunswick, Canada, on Nov. 13, 1920, one of two children of Alfred and Yvonne Theberge Williams. His father, an American citizen, was a salesman.
 Mr. Williams's studies at Northwestern University were interrupted by World War II. Stationed in London from 1943 to 1946, he rose to captain in the Army. He received his bachelor's degree from Northwestern after the war and went on to earn a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago in 1949. 
 Besides his son Jon, Mr. Williams is survived by his second wife, Joan Dunn Williams; two other sons, Peter and Stephen; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, the former Betty Bath, died in 2005.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice J. Williams 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CROP PRODUCTION (72%); AGRICULTURE (69%); DROUGHT (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010



749 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: The Oil Spill: How Did We Get Here?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Panel Suggests Signs of Trouble Before Rig Blast'' (front page, May 26):
 We learn that there were warning signs of impending disaster on the Deepwater Horizon rig, but they were ignored. This should surprise no one; the oil and coal industries have had a lot of experience ignoring signs of impending disasters.
 The siren call of quick profit drowns out the voices of caution, care and conscience, leaving our nation's energy economy under the control of forces motivated entirely by profit, unhindered by any sense of responsibility to the greater good. 
 British Petroleum's behavior has been shameful, yes -- but the entire fossil energy sector has a history of rewarding shameful, callous and irresponsible behavior. If ecocidal oil spills, coal mine explosions and terrifying increases in world temperature levels can't persuade us to kick our fossil fuel addiction, then we, too, are ignoring the signs of a planetary emergency that will make the Gulf of Mexico spill seem small.
 Warren Senders Medford, Mass., May 27, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The President Confronts the Spill'' (editorial, May 28):
 Our industry understands the concerns about offshore drilling in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon incident. But halting offshore development must be evaluated with a realistic understanding of the energy needed to keep our economy moving.
 Access to affordable energy affects every sector of our economy, every state and every American family. Further, oil and natural gas are key ingredients in the manufacturing of thousands of products -- from iPods to medicines -- that Americans use daily.
 Halting domestic development won't reduce our need for oil and natural gas; it will only outsource it. And it will place thousands of jobs, both offshore and onshore, at risk and would particularly hurt residents of the Gulf Coast, who are already facing serious economic consequences as a result of the spill.
 Our industry is not waiting for any commission to initiate improvements in safety and environmental performance. We've already brought together the sharpest minds in the business to advise the Interior Department on how drilling can be made safer and more effective so we can continue meeting America's energy demands.
 Erik Milito Upstream Director American Petroleum Institute Washington, May 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Of Top Hats, Top Kills and Bottom Feeders'' (column, May 26):
 Maureen Dowd is on the mark when she writes that ''the financial crisis and the oil spill are both man-made disasters brought on by hubris and avarice.''
 The American public is confused as to why the government failed to regulate to prevent the disasters, and why the banks and oil companies failed to foresee them.
 The answer would seem to be that the financial and political power of the big investment banks and the oil and gas industry have grown so large as to overwhelm the ability of government to function in the interests of our society.
 Rather than the problems we face coming from ''big government,'' as some contend, the current disasters we are facing stem from the power of ''big business.''
 Leonard Cohen Sugar Land, Tex., May 26, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Anyone scandalized by Big Oil's influence within the government should read ''Oil!,'' by Upton Sinclair, published in 1927. The book is a fictional expose of unscrupulous business and political practices during the early days of oil exploration and production in California.
 Drilling technology may have evolved since then, but Sinclair shows that conflicts of interest, regulators in thrall to industry, ''rapacious corporate scoundrels'' (Maureen Dowd's words), sweetheart deals, lease giveaways, bribery, fraud and the like are nothing new. They have permeated the oil industry since before the days of the Teapot Dome affair in the Harding administration.
 Sinclair could have written the book yesterday. What is scandalous is not that such practices exist, but that they have been allowed to persist virtually unchanged for over a century.
 Yvonne Marcuse Princeton, N.J., May 26, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (92%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); COAL MINING (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); OUTSOURCING (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); POLITICS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (90%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (90%); BP (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



750 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 591 words

PERSON: Maurice J. Williams 

HEADLINE: Maurice J. Williams, 89, Directed U. N. Food Aid

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Maurice J. Williams, who coordinated American disaster-relief efforts and then led a United Nations agency dedicated to relieving world hunger while warning repeatedly that not enough was being done to achieve that goal, died on May 10 in Bethesda, Md. He was 89 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla.
 The cause was complications from a fall, his son Jon said. 
Mr. Williams, an expert in international development policy, was director of the United Nations Food Council from 1978 to 1986. An arm of the General Assembly, the agency was established in 1974 to coordinate food programs of other United Nations agencies and national governments. Under Mr. Williams, the council concentrated on helping developing countries formulate strategies for food production, nutrition and disaster preparation.
 The council was formed shortly after the first World Food Conference was held in Rome. That meeting, at a time when famine was threatening swaths of Africa and Asia, led to a United Nations pledge to eradicate hunger and malnutrition.
 Five years later, although the sense of global crisis had dissipated because of improved crop yields, Mr. Williams warned, ''It is not possible to be optimistic or complacent in the face of evidence which indicates that there are probably more hungry and malnourished people in 1979 than the 450 million to whom the 1974 conference directed its attention.''
 Mr. Williams was no less concerned in 1984. ''There is still famine in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa,'' he said then. ''You still have hungry people on marginal land in parts of Asia and Latin America. In the slums of their cities people still go to bed hungry every night, unable to earn enough to buy food that is available.'' 
 Mr. Williams retired from the World Food Council in 1986; 10 years later its functions were taken over by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Food Program. 
 His leadership of the council was the culmination of nearly four decades of public service, including many missions abroad during famines and other disasters. 
 Mr. Williams was an international economist with the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency in the 1950s. He was director of the United States Agency for International Development's aid programs in Iran and Pakistan from 1963 to 1967 and deputy administrator of the agency from 1970 to 1974.
 When an earthquake devastated much of Managua, Nicaragua, in December 1972, President Richard M. Nixon sent Mr. Williams to administer American aid efforts there. He had previously coordinated American disaster relief in Peru, the Philippines, six drought-stricken West African countries and for the newly independent Bangladesh after the India-Pakistan war in 1971. 
 Maurice Jacoutot Williams was born in New Brunswick, Canada, on Nov. 13, 1920, one of two children of Alfred and Yvonne Theberge Williams. His father, an American citizen, was a salesman.
 Mr. Williams's studies at Northwestern University were interrupted by World War II. Stationed in London from 1943 to 1946, he rose to captain in the Army. He received his bachelor's degree from Northwestern after the war and went on to earn a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago in 1949. 
 Besides his son Jon, Mr. Williams is survived by his second wife, Joan Dunn Williams; two other sons, Peter and Stephen; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, the former Betty Bath, died in 2005.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice J. Williams 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CROP PRODUCTION (72%); AGRICULTURE (69%); DROUGHT (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



751 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Visiting Gulf, Obama Tells Residents 'You Are Not Alone'

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and LIZ ROBBINS; Jackie Calmes reported from Grand Isle, La., and Liz Robbins from New York.

 BODY:
GRAND ISLE, La. -- President Obama, on the defensive about the oil spill disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, made his second trip in the month to Louisiana's coast on Friday to monitor troubled efforts to cap the well, and to reassure people in this beleaguered community that he will solve the crisis.
 ''You are not alone, and you will not be abandoned,'' he said. ''We are on your side, and we will see this through.'' 
 Calling the spill an ''assault on our shores, on our people, on the regional economy,'' Mr. Obama acknowledged that the recovery effort would be long-lasting and pervasive. 
 ''This isn't just a mess that we have to mop up,'' he said. ''People are watching their livelihoods wash up on the beach.''
 Mr. Obama's remarks, against a nationally televised backdrop of bleating seagulls and glaring sunshine, came as BP had to temporarily suspend its efforts to cap the well yet again on Friday.
 Mr. Obama, who said that the outcome of the top kill procedure was still unclear, cautioned people to contain their frustrations with every failed action. 
 ''America has never experienced an event like this before,'' he said. ''And that means, as we respond to it, not every judgment we make will be right the first time out.'' 
 He added: ''There are going to be a lot of judgment calls here. There are not going to be silver bullets or perfect answers.'' 
 Mr. Obama reiterated what he said at a White House news conference Thursday. ''I ultimately take responsibility for solving this crisis,'' he said. ''I am the president, and the buck stops with me.'' 
 Mr. Obama spent two hours Friday meeting with officials at a Coast Guard station here in Jefferson Parish, within view of a still-clean Gulf coastline with shrimping boats and dolphins on the horizon. 
 Mr. Obama came to the station after inspecting a beach in the adjoining Lafourche Parish, which was lined with coin-sized tar balls attributed to invading oil from the BP leak.
 He met with two Republican governors, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Bob Riley of Alabama, and a former Republican-turned-independent governor, Charlie Crist of Florida, as well as local officials, including Billy Nungesser, the president of Plaquemines Parish, who has been a vocal critic of the federal response.
 On the morning of what was to have been the start of a Memorial Day weekend vacation with his family, their first at home in Chicago in more than a year, Mr. Obama flew to New Orleans' Louis Armstrong airport and was met by Adm. Thad W. Allen of the Coast Guard, his designated national incident commander for the spill response.
 Throwing his right arm across the commander's broad shoulders, Mr. Obama talked as they strode toward the waiting Marine One helicopter for a ride to Port Fourchon, a community of oil workers, and nearby Fourchon Beach.
 The flight took Mr. Obama over a marshy expanse that from the air looked like an incomplete tabletop puzzle with the green wetland patches as jagged puzzle pieces in the open spaces of muddy water, a scene that captured the fragility of the coastal ecosystem. 
 At the beach, Mr. Obama walked with and asked questions of Admiral Allen and Charlotte Randolph, the president of the parish. Both the admiral and Ms. Randolph said they assumed the tar balls were from the BP disaster, though they acknowledged that such oil debris is common at coastal beaches, like this one, within sight of giant oil rigs. 
 There was no evident sign of oil in the waters along the shore or out toward the horizon dotted by rigs. 
 ''This parish has been as effective as any in coordinating and working to make sure they respond quickly, '' Mr. Obama said. ''You've got about seven miles here where boom has been laid,'' he added, motioning to what looked like a line of red and blue cheerleader pom-poms parallel to a second line of absorbent white material.
 The clean booms were newly laid, he said, replacing some that had been soiled.
 Mr. Obama, in chocolate brown khakis, rolled sleeves and work boots, squatted to the beach, as the gentle surf lapped nearly to his hands, and picked up a mix of sand and small tar balls. He said they would be scooped up manually if they did not get absorbed in booms.
 Under a sunny blue sky with puffs of clouds, Mr. Obama said that for the oil-polluted waters, ''a day like today is actually ideal for in situ burning and skimming'' of surface oil. 
 ''It's calm,'' he added, ''which means that a lot of boats are out there right now, and they're in a position where they can help prevent it from getting close to shore.''
 Mr. Obama said he and Admiral Allen had seen a couple of dolphins 50 yards to 100 yards offshore, and cited them as an example of the range of ''the precious wildlife'' in peril.
 His motorcade traveled to the Coast Guard station along quiet roads bounded on each side by small homes built on pilings to guard against storm-driven flooding; many had their hurricane shutters closed tight, suggesting no one was there despite the start of a holiday weekend.
 On a small marina was a homemade sign that read, ''I'd rather be fishing.'' Between the houses, the dunes at beachside were punctuated with plywood signs crudely sprayed with ''Beach Closed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); BEACHES (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); MARINE VESSELS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BOBBY JINDAL (57%); BOB RILEY (50%); CHARLIE CRIST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010



752 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Condos, But More Art

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
EIGHTEEN units have disappeared from On Prospect Park, the condominium building in Brooklyn designed by Richard Meier. The developer, SDS Procida, has been reworking the building's interiors, originally expected to contain 114 units, to include more family-sized apartments. Now there are 96 units. 
 That has meant persistent construction in the building (more than a year after the first owners moved in) and frequent consultations with Mr. Meier's office, which has final say on changes. All together, the interior work is costing about $3 million, plus architect's fees, said Louis V. Greco Jr., one of the principals of SDS Procida. 
 The changes are just one of the ways the developer has responded to a weak economy. To get the building's original buyers -- some of whom had put down deposits in early 2008 -- to close on their apartments, Mr. Greco said, he had to deduct 15 or 20 percent from the agreed-upon prices. There were times, he said, ''when I felt like Monty Hall on 'Let's Make a Deal.' '' Then came market research that ''showed strong demand for family-sized units'' -- which led to the consolidation of apartments.
 Mr. Greco said that 42 apartments remained to be sold, at prices starting from about $680,000 to $5 million; per square foot, the prices are about 28 percent lower than in 2008. The repricing has reduced the owners' potential take by about $45 million -- which ''we were able to do because we were not overleveraged,'' Mr. Greco said. Even with the cuts, SDS Procida (which owns 50 percent of the project) expects to be able to repay its investors, he added. 
 Meanwhile, the condominium owners have been instituting changes of their own. To beautify the building's ground-floor spaces, including a pool room and a children's play room, they formed an art committee headed by Alan Selig Fleischer, a retired neurosurgeon. The committee created the Gallery@1 GAP, named for the building's address, 1 Grand Army Plaza, which will mount three shows a year of works by Brooklyn artists. The second show, featuring the conceptual artist Raphael Zollinger, who trained at the Pratt Institute, will run from June 4 through Oct. 3. 
 The art committee is advised by Isolde Brielmaier, a curator who had previously worked with the developer to choose art for the building's lobby and sales office. Mr. Meier is not consulted on the art, but it tends toward pieces that complement his white-on-white aesthetic.The gallery was a logical step for the building, which resembles several art venues designed by Mr. Meier, including the Getty Center in Los Angeles. ''People already walk in thinking it's a museum,'' Mr. Greco said of the Brooklyn building. But the condominium board still hasn't decided whether to allow public access to the gallery. According to Dr. Fleischer, one board member opposes the idea, but because the rest of the board approves, ''it will probably happen, at least on a limited basis, within a year.'' Julia Pacetti, a resident who helps publicize the gallery, said there might be one night a month when the public was invited in. 
 Meanwhile, the staff is trained to be accommodating to walk-in visitors, even handing them brochures about the art, some of which can be seen from the street. The art committee plans to acquire one piece from each show for the building's permanent collection. They have already selected a portrait on vellum of the typewriter pioneer Christopher Latham Sholes, by the Brooklyn-based Australian artist Timothy Paul Myers, to continue hanging in the lobby. 
 But Mr. Greco hopes more than art changes hands. As much as he likes the gallery concept, he said, his interest is in using cultural cachet to help sell condos. ''We all have our priorities,'' he said, ''and mine is to close units.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEIER CONDO'S GALLERY: Dr. Alan Selig Fleischer and Julia Pacetti helped select a portrait of Christopher Latham Sholes for the lobby of On Prospect Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (85%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); CHILDREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



753 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2748 words

HEADLINE: The Bargain Hunter

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

 BODY:
Miami
 THE Paramount Bay condominium is a 47-story steel-and-glass cadaver. Conceived at the height of the real estate boom as another ultraluxury tower in a city that would soon be choking on them, it looms unfinished and unoccupied on Biscayne Bay. 
 The lobby is like a mortuary. There are no chandeliers on the three-story ceiling, no paintings on the walls. And there is nobody at the front desk to greet visitors. The only sound is the eerie gurgle of a 40-foot waterfall. 
 None of this deters Barry Sternlicht, the real estate investor who owns the building. ''The bones,'' he says, gesturing around the room. ''The bones are extraordinary!''
 Mr. Sternlicht plans to transform Paramount Bay into a haven for wealthy buyers who will one day want to live here. But he concedes that the building's entrance needs work. ''This looks like an abandoned property,'' he says. ''We have to make it look like it's alive.'' 
 The pool area lacks something, too. ''It needs a concept,'' he says, wrinkling his brow. He's not yet sure what that will be. But he knows this much: The bamboo trees adorning the entrance have to go. ''We should put some wisteria or some vines over there,'' he says.
 Then it's up to one of the top floors to admire the sweeping views from an empty unit. ''Look at this,'' he says, pointing out the landmarks in the distance: South Beach, Key Biscayne and the downtown Miami skyline. ''Someone is going to want to live here -- someday.''
 Perhaps such brio is a prerequisite for an investor wading into the worst real estate wipeout in generations. Indeed, Mr. Sternlicht, 49, has been one of the downturn's busiest buyers. In the last year and a half, his private equity firm, Starwood Capital, has raised more than $3 billion. He has bought land in Florida and ski lodges in Colorado. He created a real estate finance company, Starwood Property Trust, which he took public last August in a successful initial public offering. And on Friday he ended an aggressive but unsuccessful run at Extended Stay Hotels, which was being auctioned off in bankruptcy court. 
 But his highest-profile deal has been the acquisition of the $4.5 billion real estate loan portfolio of Corus Bankshares, the nation's largest condominium construction lender until it failed last September because it had financed too many projects like Paramount Bay. The following month, Mr. Sternlicht and a group of investors -- including TPG Capital, WLR LeFrak and Perry Capital -- won the loans in an auction run by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, paying $554 million for 40 percent of the package, valuing the debt at 60 cents on the dollar. The F.D.I.C. holds the remaining 60 percent.
 Mr. Sternlicht hopes to foreclose on many of Corus's errant borrowers, restyle their buildings and sell units for a significant profit once the real estate market recovers. He says he and his investors can afford to wait until then because the F.D.I.C. has provided them with $1.4 billion in zero-coupon financing and an additional $1 billion in low-cost loans that can be used to complete unfinished projects.
 There's an upside for the F.D.I.C. too, Mr. Sternlicht says: it will recover the full value of the Corus portfolio by working with him. ''They are going to make a couple of billion,'' he says. ''If they sold it outright, they would have lost money.''
 If all goes as planned, Mr. Sternlicht says, he and his investors are also positioned to do rather well themselves. 
 SOME are skeptical of Mr. Sternlicht's projections. While real estate prices are no longer in free fall, a recovery still looks far away. Condo prices have plummeted since the 2006 peak, according to the National Association of Realtors -- 43 percent in Miami and 55 percent in Las Vegas. In Los Angeles, they are off by 44 percent from their high three years ago.
 Then there's that $554 million price that the Sternlicht group ponied up to snare its portion of the Corus portfolio -- it was 20 percent higher than its two closest competitors. ''Everybody in the industry thinks Sternlicht overpaid,'' says Peter Zalewski, founder of Condo Vultures, a real estate brokerage and consulting firm in Bal Harbour, Fla.
 Nothing bothers Mr. Sternlicht more than the suggestion that he overpaid. ''If I had to bid for it again, I'd pay more today,'' he says.
 But Linus Wilson, a finance professor at the University of Louisiana, Lafayette, who has studied the F.D.I.C.'s real estate sales, says he thinks the price Mr. Sternlicht paid for Corus will hobble his returns. Mr. Wilson points out that 59 percent of the loans on Corus's books were no longer performing before the bank failed in September, meaning that they were generating virtually no income. Corus described another $558 million in the portfolio as ''problem loans'' that were near default.
 Mr. Wilson argues that if Mr. Sternlicht doesn't sell condos right away, he may have trouble making his first loan payment of $150 million that comes due in October 2011. ''It is far from guaranteed that he and his investors will make money on this transaction,'' Mr. Wilson says. 
 And before Mr. Sternlicht can even change the lobby furniture and the landscaping at many of these Corus-financed projects, his investor group has to prevail in a slew of foreclosure proceedings against developers who have defaulted on their loans.
 Some of these exhausted borrowers are simply handing over the keys peacefully. Others are fighting back and asking a politically charged question: Why is the federal government offering low-interest financing to Mr. Sternlicht and his private equity partners when it could be helping struggling condo builders finish their projects, which are keeping hundreds of people employed?
 Sonny Astani, developer of one such project, the Concerto project in Los Angeles, says the government should support him rather than backing Mr. Sternlicht.
 ''I think Sternlicht is going to wind up flipping all this stuff in a year,'' Mr. Astani predicts. ''There are going to be huge lawsuits and bad publicity. His investors are going to get sick of it.''
 YOU might not expect to find Barry Sternlicht selling condos in Miami in a recession. He is best known for creating Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, a major hotelier that he built into a public company with $6 billion in annual revenue and brand names like Sheraton and Westin. He conjured up the Westin's signature Heavenly Bed and the W Hotel chain, which introduced hip, boutique inns to the masses.
 In the last real estate recession, in the early 1990s, Mr. Sternlicht laid the groundwork for his hotel empire by snapping up distressed properties. Now Mr. Sternlicht, who left Starwood Hotels in 2005 after a dispute with the board of directors, is making a similar play with distressed condos in overbuilt cities like Miami, Las Vegas and Los Angeles. 
 Tanned, fit and sitting on the couch of his office in Greenwich, Conn., he apologizes for his head cold and then starts a spirited defense of the Corus deal. The way he sees it, he and his partners are going to be the dominant players in all the cities where Corus poured its money. 
 ''We are going to be like the Saudis in all these markets,'' he says. ''We have the lowest cost of production and all the oil. There's nothing else new under construction. In three years, when all the debris, all the clutter is done, we'll be the guys. We will have price control.''
 The key, he says, is the cheap F.D.I.C. financing. ''That's the beauty of this investment,'' he says. ''I can afford to wait. If I had high-ticker, 10 percent financing, which would probably be the market rate, I would have to dump stuff. The interest payments would be killing me.'' 
 Mr. Sternlicht boasts about some properties on which his group holds the notes -- like Terranea, a $475 million resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif. ''It's got the second-largest ballroom in Southern California,'' he says. ''It's right on the water. It took 12 years to get the zoning.''
 Other projects will need a bit of work. One of them, called One Las Vegas, is a condo project with five towers -- only two of which have been completed -- on the outskirts of the city. ''It's a mess,'' says Norman Radow, founder of Radco Development Solutions, an expert on distressed real estate. ''It's across the street from a trailer park. I guess it has views, but they are of the desert.''
 Mr. Sternlicht is more charitable about the property in Las Vegas. ''I think we are going to convert that one to rentals,'' he says. ''The units are pretty nice. And the views are great.''
 In the meantime, he adds, the Corus portfolio had already generated $400 million in cash. Therefore, he says, nobody should worry about his group's ability to cover its debt payments.
 Mr. Sternlicht says he is simply doing today what he did during the last real estate recession: amassing inexpensive real estate and finding ways to make it more desirable. ''Barry likes to buy real estate by the pound and then find the value in it,'' says Robert Wennett, a Miami Beach developer who worked with him in the 1990s.
 A Harvard Business School graduate, Mr. Sternlicht spent the 1980s learning his trade at JMB Realty in Chicago, a leading deal maker at the time. He was let go after the real estate market collapsed in 1989. So he ventured out on his own, raising $20 million from the wealthy Ziff and Burden families of New York and buying loans from the Resolution Trust Corporation, which the federal government had created to mop up the real estate mess left from the savings-and-loan debacle.
 He journeyed to auctions and bid against guys in pickup trucks to buy the notes on apartment complexes at rock-bottom prices. He says one complex came with a llama farm and turned out to be a pretty good investment. The llama farmer, Mr. Sternlicht says, flew to Chicago to pay off a $1 million loan before Mr. Sternlicht could foreclose on it.
 He also invested in hotels. In 1994, he bought the discounted debt on a publicly traded hotel company, Hotel Investors Trust, and used it to buy Westin Hotels. Then, in 1996, Mr. Sternlicht surprised Wall Street when he outmaneuvered the Hilton Hotel chain and bought ITT Sheraton for $14 billion.
 ''He was absolutely a minnow compared to Hilton,'' says Thomas Flexner, Citigroup's global head of real estate, who advised Mr. Sternlicht on this deal and many others.
 The new hotel king became known for his obsession with details. He says that the ''one time'' he totally lost it was when he arrived at the W Hotel on Lake Shore Drive in Chicago and discovered that the foliage at the front door was dead. ''I actually went over to the Smith & Hawken store and bought furniture and plants for them,'' he says. ''I didn't want to wait 18 months.''
 ''Barry doesn't delegate,'' Mr. Flexner says.
 Mr. Sternlicht's tenure as the hotel company's C.E.O. would end badly. His friends say he wanted to relinquish his managerial duties and do deals. He recruited his successor, Steven Heyer, only to become disillusioned with him. The board didn't agree. So Mr. Sternlicht resigned in 2005. (Mr. Heyer left two years later.)
 Mr. Sternlicht returned to Starwood Capital, his original investment vehicle, to do deals. But his timing couldn't have been worse. He raised a lot of money but couldn't seem to find his way. He tried to start an eco-friendly hotel chain called the 1, but nothing has come of that venture.
 He also chased hotels and office buildings, but he says he couldn't bring himself to be the high bidder paying top dollar in such a frothy market. ''I'm a distressed-real-estate guy,'' he explains. ''I could make no sense of what was going on.''
 MR. STERNLICHT says he was relieved when the real estate bubble burst. He had a ready stockpile of cash and a target in mind: Corus.
 Once a plodding Chicago lender, Corus went into overdrive after Robert J. Glickman became its chief executive in 1984. It offered certificates of deposit with above-market interest rates to buyers on the Internet and lent the money that gushed in to developers. By 2006, Corus was the nation's foremost condo construction lender, says Matthew Anderson, a managing director of Foresight Analytics, a real estate consulting firm. 
 When the real estate market fell apart, busted loans piled up on the bank's books. ''If you were in the real estate business, you know that this bank was going to fail,'' Mr. Sternlicht says. ''It was just running out of time.'' (Mr. Glickman declined to be interviewed.)
 In March 2009, Mr. Sternlicht started forming a plan to buy the bank. Six months later, the government shut Corus and announced that it would sell its real estate loans in an auction, keeping a large part of the equity and offering potential buyers cheap financing.
 ''The reason why we do it is to allow the F.D.I.C. to capture the asset management efficiencies and expertise that a sophisticated player in the market can bring to the table,'' says James Wigand, a senior official with the regulator. ''It also allows us to participate in the recovery.''
 Analysts say that structuring the deal that way was a smart move for the F.D.I.C. ''Over all, I'd say it was a home run for Sheila Bair,'' says Chris Whalen, editor of Institutional Risk Analyst, referring to the F.D.I.C. chairwoman. ''You have to remember how bad the markets were back then. She was trying to jump-start the resolution process.''
 And yet even now people continue to say Mr. Sternlicht overpaid. Dean S. Adler, the chief executive of Lubert-Adler Partners, one of the bidders who lost out in the Corus auction, calls his competitor a ''brilliant'' investor. But he says that the number that Mr. Sternlicht and his partners paid suggests that they either have a much more optimistic view about when the real estate market will recover or are willing to accept a lower return on the deal.
 That sort of talk rankles Mr. Sternlicht. He says Mr. Alder and his co-bidder, Related Companies, blew it by mispricing their offers. Mr. Sternlicht says he got a copy of their due diligence for the Corus auction and found that they anticipated spending hundreds of million of dollars to fix construction defects. He adds that he and his investors encountered none of these woes.
 Mr. Adler doesn't deny that he and Related expected problems. ''That's why we didn't bid as much,'' he says. Related declined to comment.
 MR. STERNLICHT also says he is having fewer problems than he expected with foreclosures. Rather than litigate, some developers with projects in default are handing over buildings and have agreed to stick around and help the new owners manage them and sell condos. One of them is Key International, which developed the Mint condominiums in Miami with Corus money. 
 ''It was a close call,'' the Key vice president Inigo Ardid says wearily. ''I just decided it would be better to do a workout than have a fight and waste a lot of energy.''
 Others are proving more difficult. The Sternlicht group tried to foreclose on the unfinished Trump Fort Lauderdale Hotel and Condominium in Fort Lauderdale and ended up in a messy legal battle with the project's development group, SB Hotel Associates, as well as condo buyers who have sued to get their deposits back.
 Then there are the developers who see a larger political issue in Mr. Sternlicht's partnership with the F.D.I.C. Alessandro Feretti and Piero Salussolia are fighting to keep the Sternlicht group from foreclosing on Artecity, their condo development in South Beach. 
 Their lawyer, Thomas R. Lehman, links the Corus deal to the federal government's unpopular bank bailout. ''It's all part of the government's program of picking the haves and the have-nots,'' he says. ''Companies like Goldman Sachs and Barry Sternlicht's Starwood are the haves. Developers like Alessandro and Piero are the have-nots.''
 Mr. Sternlicht says that nothing could be further from the truth. ''We are trying to protect the government's money,'' he says. ''We are not acting in an evil, capricious manner.''
 Besides, he would rather talk about his plans to fix his new properties. To that end, he brandishes a picture of Lakefront Wharf, a fortress-like resort in Panama City, Fla., that looks as if it were built in the late 1960s in a former Soviet republic.
 Mr. Sternlicht acknowledges that Laketown Wharf isn't exactly a W Hotel -- yet. 
 ''This one needs a little aesthetic charm,'' he sighs. ''The inside is even worse.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barry Sternlicht, creator of Starwood hotels, bought up condo properties from Miami to Las Vegas. Some, like Paramount Bay in Miami, still sit empty. (BU1)
Barry Sternlicht in a condo at the unfinished Paramount Bay. ''Someone is going to want to live here -- someday,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Concerto condos in Los Angeles, top, were financed by Corus Bankshares. Below it are two members of Starwood's hotel family: the St. Regis and W New York -- Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTINA HOUSE FOR ASTANI ENTERPRISES
STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS
 RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); AUCTIONS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); SKIING (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); TPG CAPITAL LP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



754 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: The Trans-Atlantic Crisis

 BODY:
America's Uncertain Recovery
 The stock market gyrated wildly last week, soaring when China denied reports it was about to forsake the euro, then retreating on bad news about Spain's creditworthiness. Contagion from Europe is obviously still a threat to the United States. But Europe's woes are only one of several risks still facing the American economy. And those risks are made all the worse by an increasingly incoherent response from Congress.
 The biggest danger is high and intractable unemployment, currently 9.9 percent, or 15.3 million people, nearly half of whom have been jobless for more than six months. Even if last month's strong job growth is sustained -- a big if -- it would take five years to get back to a more tolerable unemployment rate of 5 percent. 
 At the same time, state budgets are collapsing, with governments facing a collective budget hole of $112 billion in the fiscal year that starts for most of them on July 1. Closing the gaps will mean tax increases and spending cuts, which will provoke more layoffs, both among public employees and businesses that contract with state and local governments.
 Adding to the economic pressure on families, more house price declines are likely, the result of millions of foreclosures and other distressed homes sales. Adding to the pressure on small businesses, credit will continue to be tight, as potentially hundreds of small banks fail, most of them weakened by souring loans on commercial real estate. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently reported that 775 banks were on its watch list, the most since mid-1993.
 Any one of those issues would be worrying. Collectively, they constitute an emergency. Yet, the Senate left town on Friday for a week's break without passing a bill to extend expiring unemployment benefits; senators said they would get to it later. The House voted for the bill, but stripped out provisions for a health-insurance subsidy for jobless workers and for more aid to states.
 Congress's reluctance to pass the package of measures, which costs about $70 billion, is grounded in familiar arguments that the nation must act now to cut the budget deficit. In fact, withholding support now -- when the recovery is still fragile and needs are still great -- runs the risk of condemning the economy to a long, hard slog of subpar growth, barely indistinguishable, in effect, from recession itself. That would be worse for the nation's finances than upfront spending.
 It is up to the Obama administration and Democratic Congressional leaders to make that case, ideally in tandem with a credible plan for reducing the deficit in the longer term. Health care reform was a down payment on controlling costs. Further serious discussion of the deficit has been put off until after the midterm election, when the president's budget panel is due to report.
 Even then, how many politicians will find the courage to deal frankly with the tax increases that deficit reduction will require? Economic recovery is not a given. Neither is effective political leadership. We will not have one without the other.
 Europe's Endangered Banks
 So far, Europe's troubles have not hurt American banks, which own little debt from beleaguered Greece, Portugal or Spain. But the American and European financial sectors are entwined, and it is unclear whether American banks are prepared for what could happen.
 Doubts remain about the solvency of the weaker European countries, despite the plan by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund to make up to $1 trillion available to indebted economies.
 The plan has brought needed respite to financial markets. Crucially, the European Central Bank threw a lifeline to banks in the euro area, promising to buy tens of billions worth of weak-country debt from them, a small portion. The German Bundestag overcame public resistance and approved the rescue package.
 But it has a fundamental shortcoming: it relies on deep budget cuts from countries that are in a recession or teetering on the edge. Several have weak governments that may not be able to carry through the prescribed fixes. Even if they do, the budget cuts are likely to make them even weaker.
 Consider Ireland, which was quick to address the financial crisis. Last year, the Irish government slashed spending, cutting the pay of public-sector workers. It raised taxes. The Irish economy contracted 7 percent, and the budget deficit widened to 14 percent of its gross domestic product. This year, the deficit is expected to reach 12 percent of G.D.P.
 Greece has now pledged to slash its budget deficit by more than 10 percentage points of G.D.P. by 2014. Spain says it will cut its deficit to 6 percent of G.D.P. next year from 11.2 percent in 2009. Italy announced cuts worth $30 billion. Portugal and even Germany have also announced budget cuts.
 This is a recipe for economic stagnation. It also may not avert a debt rescheduling by some of the weaker European countries, which would force European banks to take a cut on their holdings. Sitting on slim cushions of capital reserves, European banks are in no shape for a sharp drop in the value of their assets.
 It would be best to recognize that debt restructuring is inevitable. That would allow weaker countries to start growing again more quickly, but to withstand it European banks must be made to raise more capital. German banks' capital amounts to less than 5 percent of their total assets, compared with 12.4 percent in the United States. And they are sitting on $650 billion in debt from the four most stricken countries.
 American banks are more stable and better capitalized but must remain alert. American banks ended 2009 with $1.2 trillion worth of total European debt. That is about par with the amount of subprime residential mortgage debt outstanding in 2008. It would be foolhardy to assume this problem is far away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FAMILY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); HOME PRICES (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



755 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: 3,000 Pages, But Still Not Enough

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
FOR decades, until Congress did away with it 11 years ago, a Depression-era law known as Glass-Steagall ably protected bank customers, individual investors and the financial system as a whole from the kind of outright destruction we've witnessed over the last few years.
 Glass-Steagall was a 34-page document. 
 The two bills that the Senate and the House are currently chewing over as part of what may be a momentous financial reordering weigh in at a whopping 3,000 pages, combined. 
 Yet despite all that verbiage, there are flaws in both bills that would let Wall Street continue devising financial black boxes that have the potential to go nuclear. And even if the best of both bills becomes law, investors, taxpayers and the economy will remain vulnerable to banking crises. 
 Some will argue that these bills, at around 1,500 pages each, have to be weighty and complex if they are to curb the ill effects of convoluted and inscrutable financial instruments. That makes it doubly disappointing that the bills don't go far enough in bringing greater transparency and better oversight of everyone's favorite multisyllabic wonderment these days: derivatives. 
 Certainly the banks and the Wall Street trading shops that have so richly scored in the derivatives market are happy to keep the status quo -- after all, profits flourish where opacity rules. But for most of the rest of us that's an unsatisfactory, and possibly dangerous, outcome. 
 Despite their ubiquity and the pivotal role they play in modern finance, many derivatives don't trade openly on exchanges as stocks and other instruments do. When an institution buys a derivative like a credit-default swap, for example, to protect itself against the default of an investment like a bond, that transaction is a private contract, struck between it, the seller and perhaps an intermediary, like a bank. 
 Because private transactions like these can mask big and risky exposures in the markets (think American International Group), financial reformers decided to make derivatives trading more transparent, which is a good thing. Both the Senate and House bills require standardized derivatives to be traded on an exchange or a swap execution facility. 
 But the devil is always in the details -- hence, two 1,500-page bills -- and problems arise in how the proposals define what constitutes a swap execution facility, and who can own one. 
 Big banks want to create and own the venues where swaps are traded, because such control has many benefits. First, it gives the dealers extremely valuable pretrade information from customers wishing to buy or sell these instruments. Second, depending on how these facilities are designed, they may let dealers limit information about pricing when transactions take place -- and if an array of prices is not readily available, customers can't comparison-shop and the banks get to keep prices much higher than they might be on an exchange.
 Nobody lets auto dealers, airlines, hardware stores or an array of other businesses sell their wares without a price on the window, the ticket or the tag, but Wall Street is still getting away with obscuring prices in the derivatives market. 
 To resolve problems that might arise from derivatives dealers controlling trading facilities, the House bill bars them from owning more than 20 percent of a swap facility. The Senate bill, however, has no such limitations. 
 It is unclear, therefore, what the final bill will allow on this crucial matter. What is certain is this: Banks will lobby hard to be allowed to own swap facilities. 
 Another part of the Senate bill that keeps derivatives markets opaque resulted from a tiny change in the proposal's original language. 
 Initially, the Senate bill's discussions of derivatives platforms defined them as ''trading'' facilities, a term of art from the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. In that law, a trading facility refers to a system in which multiple participants place bids and offers and in which price transparency exists both before and after a trade is made. Such a definition usually excludes making deals over the telephone because negotiating on the phone may not provide access to as many different prices as an exchange does. 
 But the word ''trading'' was eventually struck from the final Senate bill's definition of derivatives platforms. That change would allow dealers to make derivatives deals over the phone, hardly a victory for transparency. Dealers love trading by phone because it makes it harder for customers and investors to see prices and comparison-shop, which, of course, bolsters dealer profits. 
 Because the House bill never specifically took on the issue of ''trading'' facilities, it is unlikely that the reconciliation of the two proposals will bring back this important distinction -- leaving derivatives trading more opaque than it should be. 
 Finally, lawmakers who are charged with consolidating the two bills are talking about eliminating language that would bar derivatives facilities from receiving taxpayer bailouts if they get into trouble. That means a federal rescue of an imperiled derivatives trading facility could occur. (Again, think A.I.G.) 
 Surely, we beleaguered taxpayers do not need to backstop any more institutions than we do now. According to Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., only 18 percent of the nation's financial sector was covered by implied federal guarantees in 1999. By the end of 2008, his bank's research shows, the federal safety net covered 59 percent of the financial sector. 
 IN a speech last week, Mr. Lacker said that he feared we were going to perpetuate the cycle of financial crises followed by taxpayer bailouts, in spite of Congressional reform efforts.
 ''Arguably, we will not break the cycle of regulation, bypass, crisis and rescue,'' Mr. Lacker said, ''until we are willing to clarify the limits to government support, and incur the short-term costs of confirming those limits, in the interest of building a stronger and durable foundation for our financial system. Measured against this gauge, my early assessment is that progress thus far has been negligible.'' 
 Negligible progress, 3,000 pages notwithstanding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANK FAILURES (73%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



756 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Dimple Chaudhary and Previn Warren

BYLINE: By ANNA JANE GROSSMAN

 BODY:
IN a city said to be teeming with potential mates, where in New York do you look for a great catch? Are you supposed to hail them down on the street like a cab? 
 That's one approach. 
 In November 2005, Dimple Chaudhary was happily single, but wasn't against getting her feet wet. At a Brooklyn bar one night, she and her friend Abby Larson chatted with some male friends, but none piqued her interest. 
 ''I'm always struck by her vivaciousness and good humor,'' Ms. Larson said. But they were in a neighborhood where schools of strollers navigate streets punctuated with tattooed 30-year-olds who've devoted a decade to perfecting being 21. 
 ''I was less than pleased with my options,'' recalled Ms. Chaudhary, an Indian-American who was raised in East Brunswick, N.J., and who has degrees from Harvard, the London School of Economics and Columbia Law. When she wasn't hitting the law books, she was nursing her more fun-loving side either by going to music clubs or by making pottery. 
 She had ideas about what she wanted in a mate: someone smart with an interest in good causes; handsome and tall; someone perhaps into the rock scene or maybe from South Asia -- otherwise said, indie and Indian. 
 The next morning, while going for coffee in Park Slope, Ms. Larson saw a good-looking fellow across the street. She thought to herself, ''Too bad he wasn't there last night -- I bet Dimple would've liked him,'' she said. They made eye contact and kept walking. Next thing she knew, she was running toward him. ''Sir! Excuse me! I have this friend. ... ''
 Ms. Larson told Previn Warren, the pleasantly scruffy passer-by, about Ms. Chaudhary. Mr. Warren, a bass player in a band called the States, definitely had the rocker-chic aesthetic that Ms. Larson knew would appeal to her friend. And he, too, had gone to Harvard. 
 ''I wouldn't say I was racially profiled, but I was definitely picked off the street,'' said Mr. Warren, an Indian-American raised in Huntington Beach, Calif.
 Mr. Warren, who was living in Park Slope, gave his number to Ms. Larson, who immediately called Ms. Chaudhary, who also lived in the neighborhood.
 Her first thought? ''Ax murderer,'' Ms. Chaudhary said of her friend's catch. ''It was adorable that she ran after him, but you never know. He was just some guy!''
 Her second thought? He said he was 23 -- three years her junior. ''In New York there's this idea of prolonged youth,'' she said, noting that most men of that age ''want to date lots of girls, and I felt I wanted to build something with someone.''
 Ms. Chaudhary spent days weighing the pros and cons of calling. ''I finally decided it was one of those neighborhood-y things,'' she said. ''I mean, it's not like something that would happen in Midtown.'' 
 She dialed, praying it would go to voice mail. 
 ''I'm glad you called,'' he said when he answered. They arranged to meet at a Prospect Heights dive bar of her choosing. He knew it was her when she walked in, partly because ''she was gorgeous -- a sight to behold,'' he said, and partly because he'd looked her up online. 
 She had yet to type his name into any search box. ''Didn't dawn on me,'' Ms. Chaudhary said. ''That shows our age difference.'' 
 She experienced something increasingly rare: the thrill of sizing up a good-looking blind date without the shield of a computer screen. ''He was nursing a beer and I thought he looked a bit nervous,'' she said. ''I thought that was sweet, because I was nervous, too.'' 
 They had a few other things in common: They'd overlapped as undergraduates at Harvard, and majored in social studies with the same adviser. She also learned he was a founder of the Harvard Progressive Advocacy Group and was an editor of ''Invisible Citizens,'' a book about youth civic engagement after 9/11. High on each other and the randomness of life, they barhopped until 3 a.m. 
 Several dates in, she learned he'd fibbed -- he was actually a month shy of 23.
 ''I guess I worried she wouldn't call if I was 22,'' he explained. ''It just sounds young when you are on the other side of 25.'' 
 He guessed right. Ms. Chaudhary said: ''I wouldn't have called. Now that I'm 31 and he's 27, it doesn't seem like a big deal, but still, sometimes I'm like 'He's a child of the '80s!' ''
 Young or old, it was clear to her that there was nothing better out there. ''I'm outspoken and sassy and he never has a problem with that,'' she said. ''He's selfless in a way that I hadn't experienced in a relationship.''
 For her it all came together one rainy night in Montreal. 
 ''Previn turned to me and started telling me how much he loved me and how he felt like he had just been waiting for me to come into his life,'' Ms. Chaudhary wrote in an e-mail message. ''We were young, tired, wet, drunk and broke. But he was so hopeful and certain, and he made me believe, too. I think it was at that instant I stopped worrying about our ages, our futures and our families, and just let myself be in the moment with him.''
 For his part, Mr. Warren said: ''It felt like destiny. This is the only relationship I could ever imagine wanting to be in.''
 On an August 2008 flight to Kennedy Airport from Long Beach, Calif., where he had visited his family, he said a fellow passenger approached him with a mix of concern for him and suspicion. ''I was fidgeting and kept going to the bathroom to check my hair,'' he said. ''It was just one of those 'If you see something, say something moments.' '' He assured her that he was just antsy because he was about to propose. 
 Inside Terminal 5, where Ms. Chaudhary waited, he dropped to one knee, then whisked her away for pizza. It was the eve of their move to Boston, where she's now a senior litigation associate at WilmerHale and he attends Harvard Law on a Soros Fellowship. 
 They were married on May 22 at the Picnic House in Prospect Park, at which Pandit Nikhil Trivedi, a Hindu priest, performed the ceremony as the couple and their parents sat on a canopied platform. 
 The couple recited seven vows to each other, among them, ''I promise to never forget the beautiful blind luck that brought us each other.'' Later, their parents greeted Ms. Larson with tears and big, grateful hugs.
 And when it was over, the bridegroom, who had arrived by horse-drawn carriage, took his wife's hand and ducked into a vintage Checker cab, which then wended its way to their reception at the Brooklyn Museum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PROSPECT PARK PICNIC HOUSE, MAY 22: The couple had a Hindu ceremony, then their reception at the Brooklyn Museum, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); RACIAL PROFILING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



757 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: In Korea, Five Ways To War

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 USUALLY, there is a familiar cycle to Korea crises.
 Like a street gang showing off its power to run amok in a well-heeled neighborhood, the North Koreans launch a missile over Japan or set off a nuclear test or stage an attack -- as strong evidence indicates they did in March, when a South Korean warship was torpedoed. Expressions of outrage follow. So do vows that this time, the North Koreans will pay a steep price.
 In time, though, the United States and North Korea's neighbors -- China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- remind one another that they have nothing to gain from a prolonged confrontation, much less a war. Gradually, sanctions get watered down. Negotiations reconvene. Soon the North hints it can be enticed or bribed into giving up a slice of its nuclear program. Eventually, the cycle repeats.
 The White House betting is that the latest crisis, stemming from the March attack, will also abate without much escalation. But there is more than a tinge of doubt. The big risk, as always, is what happens if the North Koreans make a major miscalculation. (It wouldn't be their first. Sixty years ago, Mr. Kim's father, Kim Il-sung, thought the West wouldn't fight when he invaded the South. The result was the Korean War.) 
 What's more, the dynamic does feel different from recent crises. The South has a hardline government whose first instinct was to cut off aid to the North, not offer it new bribes. At the same time, the North is going through a murky, ill-understood succession crisis.
 And President Obama has made it clear he intends to break the old cycle. ''We're out of the inducements game,'' one senior administration official, who would not discuss internal policy discussions on the record, said last week. ''For 15 years at least, the North Koreans have been in the extortion business, and the U.S. has largely played along. That's over.''
 That may change the North's behavior, but it could backfire. ''There's an argument that in these circumstances, the North Koreans may perceive that their best strategy is to escalate,'' says Joel Wit, a former State Department official who now runs a Web site that follows North Korean diplomacy.
 The encouraging thought is the history of cooler heads prevailing in every crisis since the Korean War. There was no retaliation after a 1968 raid on South Korea's presidential palace; or when the North seized the American spy ship Pueblo days later; or in 1983 when much of the South Korean cabinet was killed in a bomb explosion in Rangoon, Burma; or in 1987 when a South Korean airliner was blown up by North Korean agents, killing all 115 people on board.
 So what if this time is different? Here are five situations in which good sense might not prevail.
 An Incident at Sea
 Ever since an armistice ended the Korean War, the two sides have argued over -- and from time to time skirmished over -- the precise location of the ''Northern Limit Line,'' which divides their territorial waters. That was where the naval patrol ship Cheonan was sunk in March. So first on the Obama administration's list of concerns is another incident at sea that might turn into a prolonged firefight. Any heavy engagement could draw in the United States, South Korea's chief ally, which is responsible for taking command if a major conflict breaks out.
 What worries some officials is the chance of an intelligence failure in which the West misreads North Korea's willingness and ability to escalate. The failure would not be unprecedented. Until a five-nation investigation concluded that the Cheonan had been torpedoed, South Korea and its allies did not think the North's mini-submarine fleet was powerful enough to sink a fully armed South Korean warship.
 Shelling the DMZ
 American and South Korean war planners still work each day to refine how they would react if North Korea's 1.2 million-man army poured over the Demilitarized Zone, 1950s-style. Few really expect that to happen -- the South Koreans build and sell expensive condos between Seoul and the DMZ -- but that doesn't mean the planning is unjustified.
 In one retaliatory measure last week, South Korea threatened to resume propaganda broadcasts from loudspeakers at the DMZ. In past years, such blaring denunciations, of Kim Jong-il's economic failures, were heard only by North Korean guards and the wildlife that now occupies the no-man's land. Still, the threat was enough to drive the North's leadership to threaten to shell the loudspeakers. That, in turn, could lead to tit-for-tat exchanges of fire, and to a threat from the North to fire on Seoul, which is within easy reach of mortars. If that happened, thousands could die in frenzied flight from the city, and investors in South Korea's economy would almost certainly panic.
 American officials believe the South is now rethinking the wisdom of turning on the loudspeakers.
 A Power Struggle or Coup
 Ask American intelligence analysts what could escalate this or a future crisis, and they name a 27-year-old Kim Jong-un, the youngest of Kim Jong-il's three sons, and the father's choice to succeed him. Little is known about him, but his main qualifications for the job may be that he is considered less corrupt or despised than his two older brothers.
 One senior American intelligence official described the succession crisis this way: ''We can't think of a bigger nightmare than a third generation of the Kim family'' running the country with an iron hand, throwing opponents into the country's gulags, and mismanaging an economy that leaves millions starving.
 It is possible that on the issue of succession, many in the North Korean elite, including in the military, agree with the American intelligence official. According to some reports, they view Kim Jong-un as untested, and perhaps unworthy.
 ''We're seeing considerable signs of stress inside the North Korean system,'' another official reported.
 And that raises the possibility of more provocations -- and potential miscalculations -- ahead.
 One line of analysis is that the younger Kim has to put a few notches in his belt by ordering some attacks on the South, the way his father once built up a little credibility. Another possibility is that internal fighting over the succession could bring wide-scale violence inside North Korea, tempting outside powers to intervene to stop the bloodshed.
 Curiously, when Kim Jong-il took the train to China a few weeks ago, his heir apparent did not travel with him. Some experts read that as a sign that the Kim dynasty might fear a coup if both were out of the country -- or that it might not be wise to put father and son on the same track at the same time, because accidents do happen.
 An Internal Collapse
 America's most enduring North Korea strategy isn't a strategy at all; it's a prayer for the country's collapse. Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy hoped for it. Dick Cheney tried to speed it.
 The regime has survived them all.
 But could the North collapse in the midst of the power struggle? Sure.
 And that is the one scenario that most terrifies the Chinese. It also explains why they keep pumping money into a neighbor they can barely stand.
 For China, a collapse would mean a flood of millions of hungry refugees (who couldn't flee south; there they are blocked by the minefield of the DMZ); it would also mean the possibility of having South Korea's military, and its American allies, nervously contending with the Chinese over who would occupy the territory of a fallen regime in order to stabilize the territory. China is deeply interested in North Korea's minerals; the South Koreans may be as interested in North Korea's small nuclear arsenal.
 A Nuclear Provocation
 With tensions high, American spy satellites are looking for evidence that the North Koreans are getting ready to test another nuclear weapon -- just as they did in 2006 and 2009 -- or shoot off some more long-range missiles. It is a sure way to grab headlines and rattle the neighborhood. In the past, such tests have ratcheted up tension, and could do so again. But they are not the Obama administration's biggest worry. As one of Mr. Obama's top aides said months ago, there is reason to hope that the North will shoot off ''a nuclear test every week,'' since they are thought to have enough fuel for only eight to twelve.
 Far more worrisome would be a decision by Pyongyang to export its nuclear technology and a failure by Americans to notice.
 For years, American intelligence agencies missed evidence that the North was building a reactor in the Syrian desert, near the Iraq border. The Israelis found it, and wiped it out in an air attack in 2007. Now, the search is on to find out if other countries are buying up North Korean technology or, worse yet, bomb fuel. (There are worries about Myanmar.)
 In short, the biggest worry is that North Korea could decide that teaching others how to build nuclear weapons would be the fastest, stealthiest way to defy a new American president who has declared that stopping proliferation is Job No. 1.
 It is unclear whether the American intelligence community would pick up the signals that it missed in Syria. And if it did, a crisis might not be contained in the Korean Peninsula; it could spread to the Middle East or Southeast Asia, or wherever else North Korea found its customers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 (PHOTOGRAPHS, 1. CHOI JAE-KU/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
2. CHUNG SUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES
3. KENJI FUJIMOTO, VIA REUTERS
4. FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 5. DIGITALGLOBE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(WK3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXTORTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



758 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Are 5,001 Friends One Too Many?

BYLINE: By AIMEE LEE BALL

 BODY:
THE British anthropologist and Oxford professor Robin Dunbar has posed a theory that the number of individuals with whom a stable interpersonal relationship can be maintained (read: friends) is limited by the size of the human brain, specifically the neocortex. ''Dunbar's number,'' as this hypothesis has become known, is 150. 
 Facebook begs to differ. 
 What would be an impressive, even exhaustive, number of friends in real life is bush league for Facebook's high rollers, who have thousands. Other social networks use less-intimate terminology to portray contacts (LinkedIn has ''connections,'' Twitter has ''followers''), but Facebook famously co-opted the word ''friend'' and created a new verb. 
 Friending ''sustains an illusion of closeness in a complex world of continuous partial attention,'' said Roger Fransecky, a clinical psychologist and executive coach in New York (2,894 friends). ''We get captured by Facebook's algorithms. Every day 25 new people can march into your living room. I come from a failed Presbyterian youth, and there was a part of me that first thought it was impolite not to respond. Then I realized I couldn't put them all in a living room -- I needed an amphitheater.'' 
 Facebook discourages adding strangers as friends, adding that only a tiny fraction of its 400 million users have reached the 5,000 threshold, at which point Facebook wags its digital finger and says: That's enough. The company cites behind-the-scenes ''back-end technology'' as the reason for the cutoff, implying that the system will implode at the sight of a 5,001st friend. 
 ''You hit this limit, and you have to commit Facebook murder, or perhaps 'culling' would be a better word,'' said Sreenath Sreenivasan (5,000), dean of student affairs at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. His page bears the admonishment, ''FB will not let me add any more friends,'' and he periodically posts a message asking some on his list to ''unfriend'' him. 
 What may seem surprising is that the subset of people with sizable lists is not limited to unemployed 20-somethings, commandeering tables at Starbucks and deluding themselves that they're ''networking,'' social or otherwise. The high-users include plenty of grown-ups with real jobs and, seemingly, better things to do with their time than updating their ''status'' for strangers, former colleagues and camp buddies from 300 years ago.
 ''At one point, I arbitrarily decided that for every new friend I confirmed, I had to delete one, like people with small closets do with their clothes,'' said Kurt Andersen (3,072), the host of ''Studio 360'' on public radio. ''I devoted an entire weekend to going through them. But it made me feel like a 14-year-old girl: 'I'll be friends with you but not with you.' '' 
 Facebook friends grow like kudzu for a variety of reasons, often personal or professional marketing -- a proxy for the exchange of business cards (so old school). As in life, social networking lends itself to expanding social circles with like-minded people, so there are autologous Facebook cabals for foodies, literati, political junkies, perhaps gardeners, probably plumbers, definitely Civil War re-enactors (whose membership seems to be self-selected from former high-school audiovisual clubs). 
 Jeffrey Toobin, a CNN legal analyst, credits (or blames) the election of 2008 for his Brobdingnagian list. ''During one of the many primary nights, there was a shot of me from behind in the studio,'' said Mr. Toobin (5,000). ''Some intrepid viewer did a freeze frame showing that I was on Facebook at the time, and put it on the Web to make fun of it. Fair enough, but that mockery went viral. I now have 1,500 people pending, and I feel like I've declared Facebook bankruptcy. It's the 21st-century equivalent of '12:00' flashing on my VCR.'' 
 If Facebook is a place of indiscriminate musings and minutiae, where people report their every thought, mood, hiccup, cappuccino, increased reps at the gym or switch to a new brand of toothpaste, why not indiscriminate friendships? Why deny the little frisson of pleasure when your page proclaims you are ''now friends with John Smith and 27 other people?'' 
 Facebook's announcements and ''suggestions'' for new friends help to fetishize those numbers, although few will admit to an ego-gratifying interest in attaining the mythical quota of 5,000, like the Ryan Bingham character of ''Up in the Air,'' who's obsessed with reaching 10 million frequent flier miles. 
 As a metric for status or worth, Facebook has the ability to reduce its adult users to insecure teenagers, competing for high SAT scores or a seat at the cool kids' cafeteria table. 
 Saying that it feels like a nerdy popularity contest, Chris Brogan (4,801), whose Boston company helps businesses use new media, added: ''I went through school with little popularity, and no one was proud to be my friend. Now it's a strange badge to wear.'' 
 But he's loath to take the route of a ''fan'' page, especially since that term was replaced with a ''Like'' button, which he finds odious. ''I feel like Sally Field: 'You like me, you really like me.' ''
 As the lucky few learned in high school, cosmic popularity has its pitfalls, and Facebook friendship can provoke internecine battles. 
 ''My little sister wrote to me, kicking and screaming about 'How do you have so many friends -- I only have 40,' '' said the Orlando chef Norman Van Aken (2,299). ''It's great that I heard from the woman who was my baby sitter when I was 5 years old, but now there are even tutorials on 'How to build your Facebook list.' I don't want anything to do with that. It becomes almost a form of isolation rather than communication.'' 
 In the same way that a hustling stockbroker talks about marquee clients (recognizable names that might impress future clients), a Facebook profile may attract traffic with marquee friends. But celebrity identity is dubious: Edith Wharton is on Facebook, and she has 735 friends.
 ''I'm a Facebook friend of Bob Dylan, which probably means I have a deeply meaningful relationship with his publicist,'' said Daniel A. Farber (1,762), a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''I was hoping to impress my wife. And on the scale of things I've done to impress her, it's pretty good.'' 
 Jeffrey Wolf, a Bay Area real estate broker, claims, among (4,447) others, Alicia Keys, Alicia Silverstone and Alicia Witt as friends -- and that's just the A-list. ''I wanted to get Rachel Maddow,'' he said, ''but she doesn't take friends.'' 
 ADMINISTERING such a prodigious inventory -- tending to requests from impending friends, let alone communicating with extant ones -- is strenuous. 
 ''Normally I start hitting it about 10 o'clock at night, and if I do it right, I can be done by 1 a.m.,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''Anybody in his right mind would consider abandoning it.'' 
 What Mr. Andersen, the radio host, calls a graceful number of Facebook friends is a mutable concept. ''I was grossed out when I first saw people with as many or fewer friends than what I have now,'' he said. ''There's some optimal number, but I don't know what it is.''
 A large number (3,811) feels like the extension of a community for Hilary Rosen, managing partner of the Brunswick Group, a public strategy firm in Washington that has done consulting with Facebook. ''When I went to work at Huffington Post, Arianna told me, 'Darling, you must confirm everybody,' and for the most part, I follow Arianna's rule,'' Ms. Rosen said. ''But there's a core group that gets more attention, just like there used to be brown edges around some cards in my old Rolodex.''
 Thousands of friends can be noisy, insistent and distracting, even for those who consider Facebook a modern way of having a conversation, like Cameron Sinclair (3,926), founder of Architecture for Humanity, a nonprofit group in Sausalito, Calif. ''But there's a difference between people who are good for a dinner party conversation or one at a cocktail party,'' he said. And the beauty is, they need never know which party list they're on.
 In his book ''How Many Friends Does One Person Need?'' Professor Dunbar stands by his number, acknowledging that digital resources help us keep in touch but fail to substitute for face-to-face relationships with loved ones who are sources of mutual support in a flesh-and-blood world. 
 Or, as Dr. Fransecky said, ''I need friends that I can scratch and sniff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOOKING AT YOU, AND YOU AND ...: Jennifer Daniel, an illustrator, created a fan page on Facebook and asked friends to submit their images for this mosaic
 238 of them did so. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER DANIEL) (ST11) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JENNIFER DANIEL) (ST1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BRAIN (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



759 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Brooklyn Gets a Sheraton

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
A hotel row grows in Brooklyn. The 25-story Sheraton Brooklyn New York Hotel opened on May 20 in the shadow of the MetroTech Center and Brooklyn Academy of Music, the first of several hotels scheduled to open in the area. 
 The Sheraton (228 Duffield Street; 718-855-1900; sheratonbrooklyn.com) has 321 modern rooms and suites, a large fitness center, indoor heated pool, a solarium and a 1,500-square-foot rooftop patio with fantastic Manhattan views. There is also a New American restaurant and martini bar called Grubstake. Doubles start at around $200.
 The hotel is part of a larger vision to revitalize downtown Brooklyn. A sports arena for the Nets basketball team has been proposed, and several other hotels, including an Aloft, are in the works and expected to add some 3,800 beds.
 ''There's a confluence of several things happening downtown,'' said Jon Coleman, general manager of the new Sheraton. ''Brooklyn is underserved by a brand-recognized hotel. Marriott has been the only game in town since 1998.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESTAURANTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); BASKETBALL (68%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



760 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Endangered Banks

 BODY:
So far, Europe's troubles have not hurt American banks, which own little debt from beleaguered Greece, Portugal or Spain. But the American and European financial sectors are entwined, and it is unclear whether American banks are prepared for what could happen. 
 Doubts remain about the solvency of the weaker European countries, despite the plan by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund to make up to $1 trillion available to indebted economies. 
 The plan has brought needed respite to financial markets. Crucially, the European Central Bank threw a lifeline to banks in the euro area, promising to buy tens of billions worth of weak-country debt from them, a small portion. The German Bundestag overcame public resistance and approved the rescue package. 
 But it has a fundamental shortcoming: it relies on deep budget cuts from countries that are in a recession or teetering on the edge. Several have weak governments that may not be able to carry through the prescribed fixes. Even if they do, the budget cuts are likely to make them even weaker.
 Consider Ireland, which was quick to address the financial crisis. Last year, the Irish government slashed spending, cutting the pay of public-sector workers. It raised taxes. The Irish economy contracted 7 percent, and the budget deficit widened to 14 percent of its gross domestic product. This year, the deficit is expected to reach 12 percent of G.D.P. 
 Greece has now pledged to slash its budget deficit by more than 10 percentage points of G.D.P. by 2014. Spain says it will cut its deficit to 6 percent of G.D.P. next year from 11.2 percent in 2009. Italy announced cuts worth $30 billion. Portugal and even Germany have also announced budget cuts. 
 This is a recipe for economic stagnation. It also may not avert a debt rescheduling by some of the weaker European countries, which would force European banks to take a cut on their holdings. Sitting on slim cushions of capital reserves, European banks are in no shape for a sharp drop in the value of their assets.
 It would be best to recognize that debt restructuring is inevitable. That would allow weaker countries to start growing again more quickly, but to withstand it European banks must be made to raise more capital. German banks' capital amounts to less than 5 percent of their total assets, compared with 12.4 percent in the United States. And they are sitting on $650 billion in debt from the four most stricken countries. 
 American banks are more stable and better capitalized but must remain alert. American banks ended 2009 with $1.2 trillion worth of total European debt. That is about par with the amount of subprime residential mortgage debt outstanding in 2008. It would be foolhardy to assume this problem is far away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); APPROVALS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (91%); GREECE (90%); PORTUGAL (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



761 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: The Gadfly

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is an Op-Ed columnist at The Times and the author, with Sheryl WuDunn, of ''Half the Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity for Women Worldwide.''

 BODY:
NOMAD
 From Islam to America: A Personal Journey Through the Clash of Civilizations
 By Ayaan Hirsi Ali
 277 pp. Free Press. $27
 If there were a ''Ms. Globalization'' title, it might well go to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, the Somali woman who wrote the best-selling memoir ''Infidel.'' She has managed to outrage more people -- in some cases to the point that they want to assassinate her -- in more languages in more countries on more continents than almost any writer in the world today.
 Now Hirsi Ali is working on antagonizing even more people in yet another memoir. ''Nomad'' argues that Islam creates dysfunctional families -- like her own -- and adds that these distorted families constitute ''a real threat to the very fabric of Western life.'' Western countries, she says, should be less tolerant of immigrants who try to preserve their lifestyles in their new homelands. It might seem presumptuous to write another memoir so soon, but Hirsi Ali is a remarkable figure who has plenty of memories to record. 
 She was born in Somalia in 1969. Her family fled to avoid political repression, and she grew up in Kenya, Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia, collecting languages the way some kids collect postage stamps. For a time, she was a fervent Muslim, but when her father ordered her to marry a stranger, she struck out on her own, disgracing the family and shocking herself, and settled in the Netherlands.
 Hirsi Ali studied political science -- she is clearly intellectually brilliant -- and ended up as a member of the Dutch Parliament. If the rapid transformation of a Somali girl into an outspoken black, female, immigrant member of Parliament seems extraordinary, it was just the beginning. Soon her critique of Islam was leading to death threats, her citizenship was threatened by Dutch officials and she moved to a new refuge in the United States. Even now, she needs bodyguards.
 That's partly because she is by nature a provocateur, the type of person who rolls out verbal hand grenades by reflex. After her father's death, Hirsi Ali connects by telephone with her aging and long-estranged mother living in a dirt-floor hut in Somalia. Hirsi Ali asks forgiveness, but the conversation goes downhill when her mother pleads with her to return to Islam. Near tears, her mother asks: ''Why are you so feeble in faith? . . . You are my child and I can't bear the thought of you in hell.''
 ''I am feeble in faith because Allah is full of misogyny,'' Hirsi Ali thinks to herself. ''I am feeble in faith because faith in Allah has reduced you to a terrified old woman -- because I don't want to be like you.'' What she says aloud is: ''When I die I will rot.'' (For my part, I couldn't help thinking that perhaps Hirsi Ali's family is dysfunctional simply because its members never learned to bite their tongues and just say to one another: ''I love you.'')
 Since Hirsi Ali denounces Islam with a ferocity that I find strident, potentially feeding religious bigotry, I expected to dislike this book. It did leave me uncomfortable and exasperated in places. But I also enjoyed it. Hirsi Ali comes across as so sympathetic when she shares her grief at her family's troubles that she is difficult to dislike. Her memoir suggests that she never quite outgrew her rebellious teenager phase, but also that she would be a terrific conversationalist at a dinner party.
 She is at her best when she is telling her powerful story. And she is at her worst when she is using her experience to excoriate a variegated faith that has more than one billion adherents. Her analysis seems accurate in its descriptions of Somalis, Saudis, Yemenis and Afghans, but not in her discussion, say, of Indonesian Muslims -- who are more numerous than those other four nationalities put together.
 To those of us who have lived and traveled widely in Africa and Asia, descriptions of Islam often seem true but incomplete. The repression of women, the persecution complexes, the lack of democracy, the volatility, the anti-Semitism, the difficulties modernizing, the disproportionate role in terrorism -- those are all real. But if those were the only faces of Islam, it wouldn't be one of the fastest-growing religions in the world today. There is also the warm hospitality toward guests, including Christians and Jews; charity for the poor; the aesthetic beauty of Koranic Arabic; the sense of democratic unity as rich and poor pray shoulder to shoulder in the mosque. Glib summaries don't work any better for Islam than they do for Christianity or Judaism.
 Where Hirsi Ali is exactly right, I think, is in her focus on education as a remedy. It's the best way to open minds, promote economic development and suppress violence. In the long run education is a more effective weapon against terrorists than bombs are.
 Because she is an immigrant, Hirsi Ali emphasizes the difficulties that immigrants, particularly Muslims, have in adjusting to life in Western societies. In the course of telling her own story, she identifies three central problems. First is Islam's treatment of women. ''The will of little girls is stifled by Islam. . . . They are reared to become submissive robots who serve in the house as cleaners and cooks.''
 Second is the lack of experience that many Muslim immigrants have had with money and credit. Hirsi Ali recounts how, after her arrival in the Netherlands, she received an apartment through the government with the option of a loan of up to $4,000 to furnish it and pay utilities. A Dutch friend offered to take her to a discount furniture store, but Hirsi Ali had dreamed of something upscale. So she and her Somali roommate, Yasmin, went to a high-end store and bought wall-to-wall carpeting and wallpaper -- and that used up almost the entire loan.
 ''The money was worth nothing here. Was the whole loan about just a carpet? We quickly decided it was God's will. There was no need to quarrel: Allah had willed it thus.'' Soon Hirsi Ali was thousands of dollars in debt, and she argues that many foreigners have similar troubles with Western credit and finance.
 The third problem is a propensity to violence in the family, as well as in religious vocabulary and tradition. ''I don't want to create the impression that all people from Muslim countries or tribal societies are aggressive,'' she writes -- and then she proceeds to do just that. She declares: ''Islam is not just a belief; it is a way of life, a violent way of life. Islam is imbued with violence, and it encourages violence. Muslim children all over the world are taught the way I was: taught with violence, taught to perpetuate violence, taught to wish for violence against the infidel, the Jew, the American Satan.''
 This is the kind of exaggeration that undermines the book. If the points about women and money are largely true, the point about violence seems to me vastly overstated. Yes, corporal punishment is common in madrassas, as it was in the rural Oregon schools where I grew up, and as it continues to be in Texas. Beatings may be regrettable, but they don't typically turn children into terrorists.
 During a recent trip to Sudan, I was speaking to a Muslim Arab in Khartoum. When I said I was from the United States, he looked quite shocked and said worriedly: ''Oh! It is very violent there.'' I've had similar experiences in Yemen, Somalia, Pakistan and Afghanistan, with people in those countries expressing concern about my safety in violent New York. They generalize too much from American movies.
 It's true that public discussion in some Muslim countries has taken on a strident tone, full of over-the-top exaggerations about the West. Educated Muslims should speak out more against such rhetoric.
 In the same way, here in the West, we should try to have a conversation about Islam and its genuine problems -- while speaking out against over-the-top exaggerations about the East. This memoir, while engaging and insightful in many places, exemplifies precisely the kind of rhetoric that is overheated and overstated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER HOSLET/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY (2008)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); RELIGION (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (77%); BESTSELLERS (72%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%)

PERSON: AYAAN HIRSI ALI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); KENYA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



762 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Business Shut After 9 Years For Want of a Renewed Visa

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
WELLS, Me. -- It was an unusual sign, even for a restaurant here along the Maine coast, where seasonal home-grown businesses are a way of life.
 ''Closed. Gone to try and get a new visa,'' read the hand-scrawled message taped inside the window of Laura's Kitchen, a cozy eatery that specialized in corned beef hash and omelets and where the tiny tables were still set with brightly colored napkins. ''Hope to see you in the spring. Dean & Laura.''
 The sign turned out to be overly optimistic. Dean and Laura Franks, a British couple who opened the restaurant in 2000, found that after nine years of running their business, they could not renew their visa, forcing them to shutter the restaurant and leave the country.
 The Franks are among thousands of people who enter the United States each year on E-2 visas, which allow citizens from countries with which the United States has certain trade treaties to invest in businesses and work here. The visas generally are renewed every two years, but there is no limit on how many times they can be renewed. Still, they are not intended as a path to permanent residency or citizenship. 
 But now, immigration advocates say they are hearing more and more accounts of renewal applications being turned down. It has been an enigmatic process for the Franks, uprooting their lives even though they have paid all their taxes, own the restaurant and its adjacent rental house, and have no debts except a mortgage on their home in Arundel, about 35 miles away.
 ''This is the forgotten story of immigration,'' said Angelo Paparelli, a prominent immigration lawyer in California. ''The headlines deal with Arizona and border crossings, but these are real people too. This is what happens when you play by the rules.''
 In denying the Franks' renewal application last year, immigration officials said their restaurant had become a marginal business. The government sets no specific dollar amount, but it defines a marginal enterprise as one that ''does not have the present or future capacity to generate more than enough income to provide a minimal living'' for the visa holder and his family.
 The Franks were surprised and confused to learn last year that they were deemed marginal. Their tax returns show that their gross annual income in 2008 was $64,000, in addition to rental income of $16,800. Their gross profit for the year was $38,800, which was down from their gross profit in 2007 of $50,700 because of the recession, which hit most businesses. They said they barely needed more than enough to provide for minimal living because that is how they live -- minimally.
 ''We live frugally, we don't drink, we don't smoke, we don't party, and we live within our means,'' Mr. Franks said by phone earlier this year from Nova Scotia, where friends had given them use of an empty house. ''We pay all our bills, we don't have car payments, we pay our credit cards off every month, and that seems to count against us.''
 Daniel Maranci, a lawyer in Boston who represented the Franks, said the couple met the test of earning more than enough to make a living because they had enough to hire three or four Americans as waiters and to pay for their properties.
 ''The marginality requirement is fairly subjective,'' Mr. Maranci said. ''U.K. nationals are saying there has been a shift generally in the way these cases are being adjudicated, with a more draconian view of marginality.''
 Over the last two and a half years, 8,468 requests for E-2 extensions have been filed, and their approval rate does appear to have dropped, according to figures provided by William G. Wright, a spokesman for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. So far in the 2010 fiscal year, he said, 82 percent of the applications have been approved. In 2009, 84 percent were approved, and in 2008, 91 percent. The service does not track the reasons for denial, so the extent to which marginality was a factor is not clear. 
 The Franks said the vagueness of the standards made them hard to meet. ''Because there are no hard and fast rules, they can get you on whatever they want,'' Mrs. Franks said.
 Mr. Wright, who said he was speaking generally about the process and not about the Franks' case, said that the most recent internal reviews of the decision-making process showed that adjudicators abided by proper standards in 97 percent of cases. ''The adjudicators are doing their job,'' he said.
 Mr. Paparelli, the California immigration lawyer, said that in recent years, E-2 visa holders were being foiled by a confluence of trends, including an increased vigilance by government officials after the Sept. 11 attacks; a perception by officials that ''evil people'' may be using these visas fraudulently to get into the United States; a bureaucratic disinclination to take the time to examine applications by mom-and-pop operations; and immigration officers' perceptions that local economies already hurt by the recession and job losses could not sustain more businesses.
 In England, Mr. Franks, 45, had been a financial adviser, and Mrs. Franks, 42, worked as a chef. But they were not happy and decided in 2000 that they wanted to open a restaurant in Maine, where they spent many vacations and married.
 While they came to pursue the American Dream, they said, and wanted to become Americans, they are now fed up with what they see as an arbitrary system that had allowed them to run a business for almost a decade until the day it did not.
 ''I can honestly see why people come into the country illegally, because to do it legally is almost impossible,'' Mr. Franks said from Nova Scotia.
 ''They have tossed us aside like a used tissue,'' he said.
 They sought help from local politicians and started a letter-writing campaign. At the Web site E2Reform.org, they found other British citizens facing the same fate. Learning that some had successfully had their visas renewed at the American Embassy in Barbados, the Franks flew down there. But they had no luck and returned to Nova Scotia, where they sat out the winter.
 In mid-April they decided to drive to the Maine-Canadian border, with a letter from their lawyer, Mr. Maranci, explaining their situation. After two hours of questioning, they were allowed back into the United States for three months to wrap up their affairs.
 They have put the restaurant and the adjoining house on the market for $399,000 and are also selling their home in Arundel, where they are holding yard sales to get rid of their possessions and earn money for food, since they no have no income.
 ''We can't do anything until something sells,'' Mrs. Franks said earlier this month, sitting at an empty table in the dim restaurant, where the plates, cups and cutlery were stacked by the counter. ''All our money is tied up here and in our house.''
 They find themselves without work, without an income and without a country. Gradually, they are emptying out their freezers and working through their larder of cans of assorted foods, leading to what Mrs. Franks described as ''some very strange dinners.'' They worry that they will not be able to sell their properties before their time expires, when they expect to go to Canada.
 ''I love America,'' Mr. Franks said, but he has become embittered because their hard work and frugal ways seem to count for nothing.
 ''You can go from 'illegal' to 'green card holder,' but we're going from 'legal' to 'no way you can get a green card,' '' he said. ''We did it wrong. If we came here illegally, we'd have a chance of becoming citizens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laura Franks cleaned the attic of the restaurant that she and her husband, Dean, owned in Wells, Me., as they prepared to sell the property and leave. (A13)
 Dean Franks talked to a friend while his wife, Laura, sorted through possessions at a garage sale at their home in Arundel, Me. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); LAWYERS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



763 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4712 words

HEADLINE: The Integrationist

BYLINE: By RUSSELL SHORTO. 
Russell Shorto is a contributing writer. His last article for the magazine was about conservative Christians' efforts to influence history textbooks.

 BODY:
While slouching against a wall in a former cigarette factory in the industrial outskirts of The Hague one day last month, I was visited with the sudden realization that over the formative centuries of European history the two words that most succinctly signaled ''other,'' ''foreign'' or ''enemy'' were these: ''Jew'' and ''Turk.'' Crudely unpacking them, ''Turk'' meant Muslim, Arab, infidel, the threat from without; a Jew was the enemy within, someone who, even if born and raised in your hometown, was part of another political as well as religious entity; the Jews of a city were referred to not as a community but as ''the Jewish nation.'' ''Jew'' and ''Turk'' were in fact constructs Europeans used to help define their own identity: that which we are not. 
 What brought this to mind was the scene in front of me. The Labor Party in the Netherlands -- which several weeks ago emerged from the endless gray muddle of the country's multiparty system to take the lead in polls as the nation approaches an election on June 9 -- was unveiling its candidates. On a makeshift stage, before banners bearing the party's logo of a fist inside a rose, stood two people. At the top of the list of candidates -- the man responsible for the recent shake-up of Dutch politics, who is making some people in Europe begin to wonder whether he represents a way for mainstream parties on the Continent to successfully combat the swelling tide of populist, anti-immigrant voices -- was Job Cohen, who until March was the mayor of Amsterdam. Cohen was raised in a secular Jewish household in the hamlet of Heemstede, not far from Amsterdam; his parents spent World War II in hiding from the Nazis; his paternal grandparents died at Bergen-Belsen. At Cohen's side, No. 2 on the candidate list, was Nebahat Albayrak, who was born in the central Anatolian region of Turkey and moved as a child to Rotterdam, where her father worked as a scaffold builder.
 There is certainly some truth to the conventional wisdom about the immigration debate: that Europe lags far behind the United States in its ability to craft a truly multiethnic society, to turn newcomers into citizens. European countries, by this reckoning, are prisoners of their old racial or nationalistic identities. And the Netherlands has of late been a particular example of this; its right-wing, anti-immigrant standard-bearer, the golden-maned Geert Wilders, has steadily gained support since he formed his Freedom Party for the 2006 parliamentary elections. Earlier this year, Wilders's party was leading in the polls. In municipal elections in early March, his party, riding on his virulent anti-Muslim rhetoric, won the city of Almere and came in second in The Hague itself -- the seat of the Dutch government and home of the International Criminal Court. On a protest-filled visit to London afterward, Wilders -- who is facing trial in a Dutch court for inciting hatred -- boasted of becoming the next prime minister.
 But shortly afterward, the political landscape was transformed by the surprise entry of Cohen into the race to lead the country. In an electorate split up across a dozen or so parties, the Labor Party doubled overnight, from 11 percent in the polls to 22 percent, while Wilders's numbers have dropped in several straight polls. Some see in Cohen's rise the possibility of a new Dutch society, and with it perhaps a hint of how new national identities could form in Europe. In what would be confirmation of the worst fears of a Wilders, the new identity prototype has an inclusiveness that inverts the centuries-old formula. As the Jew and the Turk stood side by side with their fellow candidates -- which included a good mix of other ethnicities as well as native Dutch -- Cohen proclaimed, ''This is the Netherlands!''
 To further confound the identity puzzle, one of the voting blocs most animated by Cohen's entry into the race for prime minister is the country's Moroccan population, which, of course, is mostly Muslim. (Muslims account for 5 percent of the population, according to the Dutch government.) ''Moroccans will absolutely vote for Job Cohen, even though his party isn't very popular among them,'' says Nadia Bouras, who researches Moroccans in the Netherlands at the University of Amsterdam. ''He's beloved in the Moroccan community. He's of Jewish descent, but he calls himself a secular Jew. A lot of Moroccans can relate to that -- being an outsider but a part of society.''
 Cohen does not have a lock on the premiership. The polls have tightened in recent days, with the Liberal Party (which is actually mostly conservative) making gains. That seems largely a function of the economy, which has become a major worry, and many voters perceive the Liberals as having the soundest economic plan. But even political opponents frankly acknowledge the altered dynamics since Cohen entered the race. ''Many people who thought they would never vote for Labor now say they will vote for Cohen,'' said Frits Bolkestein, a former minister of defense and former leader of the Liberal Party. Hans Hoogervorst, another prominent member of the Liberal Party and a former finance minister, said of Cohen: ''He has a natural authority, and he has the capability of giving some reassurance. And that is what people want.''
 The Cohen candidacy has intrigued not only Dutch voters but others in Europe as well. ''In France our own left is in shambles,'' says Sabine Cessou, who covers the Netherlands for the left-leaning French newspaper Liberation. ''People want to know if it's possible for the left to recover, to gain trust and gain votes.'' Before travel plans were scrapped because of the Icelandic volcano cloud, Cohen was to be the keynote speaker in Berlin last month at a gala of the German Social Democrats, who have been historically aligned with the Dutch Labor Party and likewise are wondering if he represents a new force toward what he calls ''a decent society.''
 Among the many remarkable features of Cohen's candidacy is that it is a real candidacy. In Dutch politics, one votes for a party and its platform; the American-style focus on personalities is unusual. Yet as an indication of the hero worship that has lately been rippling through this small and normally downbeat country, a Facebook page devoted to the new leader of the Labor Party, which had more than 12,000 members the week after it was started, is called Yes We Cohen.
 JOB COHEN IS an unlikely figure to generate a political cult of personality. He is an old-fashioned man, quiet and courteous. He is tall, stooped, with an angular face and intense eyes. At 62, he hardly fits the paradigm of an upstart. He seems always to be calm. There is an air of sadness about him.
 Cohen began his time as the mayor of Amsterdam, all the way back in 2001, by doing the sorts of things you would expect a mayor of Amsterdam to do. The moment a national bill to legalize gay marriage became law -- at midnight on April 1 that year -- he made sure that there were four same-sex couples standing at the ready at City Hall, so that he became the first government official anywhere to perform a gay marriage. In those long-ago days, trumpeting a liberal city's expansion of its historic ideals of liberalism and tolerance seemed a serious priority.
 Several months later -- round about 3 p.m. on Sept. 11, when the first images came from the United States of airplanes striking the World Trade Center towers -- those priorities changed in an instant. Historically, Amsterdam's famed tolerance came hand in hand with its position as a cultural crossroads; in the 17th century, British travelers wrote letters home marveling at seeing exotic dark skin, flowing Eastern robes and turbans on the Dam, the central square of the city. Three years ago, Amsterdam ranked first in a count of cities with the most nationalities; its 177 distinct groups outpaced even New York, despite its being about one-tenth the size. So as news filtered in about the nature of the attacks in the U.S., the new mayor wanted information about what was happening in his city of immigrants. There were reports of Moroccan youths chanting pro-Osama Bin Laden messages; how might things escalate? ''I remember I asked the vice-mayor, 'What kind of contact do you have with all the different Muslim communities?' '' Cohen told me recently. ''And his answer was, 'Well, actually, we don't have any.' ''
 The Dutch are a straightforward people, and the strategy that Cohen and Maureen Sarucco, his director of public order, came up with for gathering information could not have been more low-tech. They wanted to avoid using the police department. So the city's civil leaders themselves -- from aldermen to district leaders and school principals, several hundred people in all -- walked through neighborhoods, talking and listening. As it happened, the city was relatively quiet. Nevertheless, Amsterdam, like much of the rest of the world, was now on the alert; the sidewalk approach was formalized into a plan for getting the pulse of the city in a time of crisis, which was called the peace script.
 The great crisis of Cohen's mayoralty -- and the event that would begin to reshape his countrymen's ideas about immigration, identity and their own future -- came on the morning of Nov. 2, 2004, when the most relentlessly and outrageously vocal Dutch critic of immigrants, and of Muslims in particular, the filmmaker Theo van Gogh, was murdered in the streets of Amsterdam while he was bicycling to work. The attack was vicious (he was nearly decapitated) and a calculatedly horrific warning flare: a rambling Islamist-fueled letter was stuck to the dead man's chest by a knife. The letter was a death threat that singled out, among others, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, the Somali-born women's rights activist who, as a member of the Dutch Parliament, was an outspoken critic of Islam, and Cohen himself, who it said was part of a Jewish cabal that dominated Dutch politics with an aim to humiliate Islam. It was only one murder, yet it convulsed the city and the nation, and it sent shock waves across Europe, for in those times of high anxiety it seemed to fit the portent of impending culture clash.
 Depending on whom you talk to, Cohen's response to the murder either helped bring about the beginnings of a new idea of society or it has amounted to misguided appeasement of dangerous forces. He initiated the peace script; the on-the-streets information-gathering indicated that Muslim areas of the city were radicalizing. He held a series of public meetings with ethnic and religious communities, and in these he made use of the city's Moroccan alderman, Ahmed Aboutaleb. ''We operated as a kind of couple,'' Aboutaleb told me recently. ''It was a kind of city therapy.''
 Aboutaleb played the heavy in a good cop/bad cop routine. While Cohen pushed the awareness that Van Gogh's killer -- a Moroccan who grew up in the city -- had operated on his own and did not represent Muslims as a whole or the city's Moroccan community, Aboutaleb focused on Muslims who were using the occasion to stir unrest. When Aboutaleb declared in a speech in a mosque, ''Whoever doesn't want to go along with Dutch society and its achievements can pack his bags,'' it hit in a way it would surely not have had Cohen said it. As an indication of how this one murder and the response to it has propelled Dutch society, Aboutaleb is today the mayor of Rotterdam, the first Muslim mayor of a major Dutch city.
 Cohen was criticized from all sides in the days after the murder, but a year later he was being widely praised for his handling of the crisis. Time magazine named Cohen a ''European hero'' and dubbed him a ''hate buster.'' In 2006 he was runner-up in a contest for the ''World Mayor'' award. (The winner was the mayor of Melbourne.)
 Nevertheless, the murder continued to shake Dutch society, precisely because it kept the question of national identity -- ''Who are we as a people?'' -- in the forefront. When, in 2007, Wilders called for the Koran to be banned in the country, it caused outrage, but at the same time his underlying message -- that, as he has declared, ''we are heading for the end of European and Dutch civilization as we know it'' -- reflected a widespread feeling that the country's way of handling immigration was a disaster.
 That way, in a word, was multiculturalism, the reigning dogma of the Dutch left in the 1980s and 1990s. By its logic, the government, far from insisting that newcomers integrate, actually provided money so that immigrant communities could keep up the traditions and language of their homelands, maintaining little Moroccos and Turkeys within the Dutch borders, largely disconnected from the wider society. If multiculturalism had failed, did Wilders represent the only alternative?
 In Amsterdam, Cohen kept to his own agenda, at some remove from the national debate. Management of his intensely multiethnic city in the post-9/11 period led him to alter his traditional Dutch liberalism. Immigrants, he held, needed to become part of society, and that included learning the language and respecting the laws, and appreciating what he considers the paramount Dutch value, freedom. Newcomers, he told me, should study a Dutch canon of important historical events and figures. Cohen's idea seems to have been to move away from the multicultural extreme while also avoiding the anti-immigrant extreme, to fashion a practical inclusiveness. He has repeatedly said that ''Keeping Things Together'' was his motto for governing the city. ''I think he would be the first to say that keeping things together is more a strategy than a philosophy,'' says Paul Scheffer, a Dutch sociologist who is one of the leading thinkers of the Labor Party but who has also been critical of Cohen. ''What's behind it is experience. He understands that the relationships between groups in our time are fragile. He has a modest ambition.''
 At the same time, after the Van Gogh murder, Cohen realized he needed a guiding theory or doctrine. He sought out Jean Tillie, a professor at the Institute for Migration and Ethnic Studies at the University of Amsterdam, who had been influenced by the Harvard political scientist Robert Putnam, and in particular his understanding of social capital. Putnam had studied the breakdown of community and the increasing individual isolation that modern society engenders, most famously described in his 2000 book, ''Bowling Alone.'' In 2006, Tillie led a study of the city's immigrant groups, focusing on what made certain Muslim communities turn toward a violent, radical philosophy, and he issued a report. For the first time, it quantified the threat: about 2 percent of Amsterdam's Muslim population -- 1,400 people in all -- were potentially becoming radicalized. The report made certain recommendations. Cohen's City Hall formalized an antiradicalization plan that has since been copied by several other European cities. ''Maybe the most important result of the study was that it showed that radicalization results from social isolation,'' Tillie says. ''Therefore, building networks in the city among ethnic and religious organizations was an important recommendation.''
 Social networks, in this reckoning, come in two types: weak and strong. Business relationships are examples of weak networks, in which people communicate with one another infrequently. An ethnic community in a neighborhood, by contrast, might constitute a strong network, in which participants see and exchange ideas with one another on a daily basis. It may be logical to think that such a strong, localized network would shun the wider society and so be a potential breeding ground for radicalization, so that an antiradicalization plan might seek to weaken it. But according to Tillie, the paradox is that if a strong network is given support, its members will become active participants in society. Thus came the most contentious feature of Cohen's tenure as mayor of Amsterdam: his decision to give a sympathetic ear even to insular and orthodox Muslim communities. ''Drinking tea in mosques'' became a term of derision used by those convinced this was exactly the wrong tack. When, in March, Cohen announced his intention to take over his party -- and in effect to go straight at Geert Wilders in the coming election -- Wilders castigated him as ''tea-drinking, multiculti-coddling Cohen.''
 That criticism doesn't seem to bother Cohen's supporters. ''Tea drinking was actually a policy recommendation,'' Tillie told me. ''We did not really write 'drink tea,' but we did say you should talk to people who think the system is not legitimate, and work together with religious organizations.'' The city has given support to a variety of immigrant and community organizations, including conservative mosques, with the idea of working together to fight radicalization. As Cohen told me: ''The approach is geared toward the individual. You hear that one of these kids has changed in the past few months. Is there someone who knows him, who can talk to him? You put questions: Why don't you go to school? Should I look for a job for you? If you think life is better in Morocco, go and see for yourself.'' Pieter Jan van Slooten, a policy adviser who works on the antiradicalization program, told me that his office now works hand in hand with mosques as well as schools and community groups to determine when young Muslims show signs of falling prey to radicalism.
 This approach has outraged more people than just Geert Wilders (who declined to be interviewed for this article). ''Cohen and the Labor Party have bent over backward to please the Muslim minority in Amsterdam,'' said Frits Bolkestein, the former leader of the Liberal Party. ''His coddling of orthodox Muslims is counterproductive. It's also a waste of money, and it infringes on the doctrine of the separation of church and state.''
 Ayaan Hirsi Ali -- from her position at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative U.S. policy center at which she became a fellow after she fled the Netherlands -- criticizes Cohen's approach using the same dire language about Islam that put her at the center of the Dutch political and social debate. ''I don't think the plan works,'' she told me. ''The problem is that it assumes you are dealing with European peoples. The most essential factor is that Islam is a conquering philosophy. It's interesting that the only identity that Muslims have in Amsterdam, and in other European places, is as a vulnerable population. And because of that people feel they have to understand them, respect their idiosyncrasies, support them with state money and all will be well. It will not.''
 But Jean Tillie insists the results are self-evident: ''What we know is that since 2004, nothing has happened in the city.'' While incidents of racial and religious violence occurred around the country in the aftermath of the Van Gogh murder, Amsterdam remained quiet.
 At the same time, many who broadly support Cohen say he took the city too far in strengthening the social well-being of orthodox groups in order to stabilize and integrate them. ''The city of Amsterdam and the Dutch government were subsidizing schools and organizations that were totally retrograde, that were teaching that women aren't the equal of men and that Jews should be burned,'' says Deborah Scroggins, an American journalist who is writing a book on Muslim women in the West. Paul Scheffer, the prominent Labor Party thinker, agrees. ''The vision Cohen projects about the Netherlands, the inclusive idea, that's definitely something we need,'' he says. ''But he should point out to certain parts of the Muslim community the obligations that religious freedom brings with it.''
 In practice, and surely also to broaden his appeal on the right, Cohen linked his inclusiveness efforts to crime-fighting and quality-of-life issues. ''You can't feel at home if you don't feel safe,'' he told me. ''Look at the banlieues of Paris.'' He cleaned up areas of Amsterdam and gave the police more authority. At the same time, he stresses that as mayor of the most famously liberal city in the world, he was in a unique position. Political forces that support the liberal image remain very strong, and Cohen counts himself one of them. ''People come here because they feel you can do whatever you want here,'' he says, approvingly. He says the city went too far, however, and was naive in promoting its tolerance. He says he still believes in the philosophy that decriminalized prostitution and soft drugs, but that is has long been clear that, with international organized crime lurking behind both, more aggressive regulation is necessary. As with immigration, his guiding principle is an unrepentant tolerance, but one tempered by experience.
 FOR ALL THE INTEREST Job Cohen has stirred among the Dutch, there is also a widespread feeling that the man himself is an enigma. People refer to him as ''the sphinx'' or ''Saint Job'' for the way he seems to float above the political fray. Paul Scheffer told me he has known Job Cohen since 1997 but feels he doesn't really get him. So here is a curiosity: people are turning to this man to answer what has become the pressing question of national identity, Who are we? Yet nobody seems to know who he is.
 On an evening in early April, with the weather alternating between gusts of winter and inhalations of spring and the streetlamps casting an orange glow on the oily surface of the canals, I cycled across the center of Amsterdam and came to a stop before a 17th-century house on the city's most famous canal. I had been to the mayor's residence several times before, but always at official events, with waiters serving wine, the glow of lights and clink of glasses. Now I was buzzed in to a dark, seemingly empty building and led to a formal drawing room upstairs, its walls covered in gold and yellow striped wallpaper, nearly all its space filled by a conference table. High windows looked out onto the canal. The house was silent.
 After a long pause, a side door opened. Job Cohen himself stood there in the darkened hall, dressed as he always is in a suit and tie. He maneuvered a wheelchair into the room. To my surprise, he had brought his wife, Lidie, who suffers from multiple sclerosis, to the interview. He asked about drinks, then disappeared for maybe four minutes. There was a distant clatter, and I realized he was getting the drinks himself. He returned carrying a wooden tray and glasses. I was reminded of the days, shortly after I first came to Amsterdam nearly five years ago, when I used to see him in the local supermarket, doing the family shopping. If Cohen is inscrutable, it is not because he surrounds himself with handlers.
 We began talking about his early years. The shadow of the Holocaust hovered over the period, but he insisted he had a happy childhood -- that his parents were determined to shield their children from the awful past and used the cool, rationalizing tendencies common among some European intellectuals of the day to talk about it. He became interested in politics very early. John F. Kennedy was a hero. His mother was a member of the local City Council, and he would go to the meetings. ''I was a little man of 11 or 12,'' he said, ''sitting there listening intently.''
 Cohen studied law, worked in academia and became a university administrator before entering politics as deputy minister of education, the first of several ministry positions he would hold. Then he was appointed mayor of Amsterdam -- in the Netherlands the mayor is not an elected official. That means that while he has spent time in the hot seat, he has not had to pander, to court, to kiss babies as another politician might. And as mayor, he has spent nearly a decade away from the center of the country's politics in The Hague. He was in a sense put out to pasture, an old-guard lefty given an interesting but tangential perch. Meanwhile, Wouter Bos, the leader of his party until recently, was supposed to be the young gun who would bring it back to relevance. But things didn't work out that way. The recent shake-up began in February, when Bos, fed up over the country's continued military presence in Afghanistan, pulled his party out of the coalition government, which brought about its collapse and set up the June 9 election. Then, in March, rather than mounting a run to lead the country himself, the 46-year-old Bos surprised the nation by announcing his retirement from politics. Cohen stepped forward to take his place.
 Cohen remains in many ways a traditional European leftist. He favors substantial government support of the arts and sees abortion as a woman's right; he wants to remove tax rebates for the wealthy and to get Dutch troops out of Afghanistan by December. What makes him different, besides the approach toward immigration that he pioneered in Amsterdam, is the aloof persona he has forged, which led one national newspaper to declare (somewhat tongue-in-cheek) that the nation now looks to him as ''the savior.''
 Cohen has a number of challenges before him. The European debt crisis has persuaded many Dutch voters to see the economy as the most important issue, and he is not strong on economics. He also presided over the digging of a subway line through the heart of Amsterdam that is now financially and structurally threatening the city. Such issues, plus the fact that he has never before campaigned for office, could make the final days of the campaign a minefield for him. During a recent national television interview, he was caught off guard by that old trick of journalists, the pop quiz. He got the price of a loaf of bread right but didn't know the current unemployment figures and squirmed in handling a question about mortgage rates. To some, Saint Job has started to look mortal. He would prefer to talk about immigration and integration matters, which allows for the matchup many observers want to see: Cohen versus Wilders, with all of Europe awaiting the outcome. ''I would hope that my approach would work elsewhere in Europe,'' Cohen said.
 His approach -- Amsterdam's apparent evolution in the past few years from multiculturalism toward integration -- may be personified by a 41-year-old man named Ahmed Marcouch, who as a small child emigrated from Morocco to the Netherlands with his parents and eight brothers and sisters. At the time of the Van Gogh murder, Marcouch found himself in the role of spokesman for the city's Moroccan mosques, trying to interpret his community's perspective to the wider Dutch society. Later, he entered local politics and became the leader of Slotervaart, one of the city's troubled districts, from which Van Gogh's killer came.
 There, with Job Cohen's blessing, he both pressed Moroccans to take up civic responsibility and pushed the city to crack down on street crime committed by Moroccan youths. When he asked the police in the district to retaliate when street kids threw stones to taunt them, he ran up against the extreme anti-police-brutality policies put into place in the 1980s and 1990s. ''The police said they thought they had to make friends, to try to say, 'Salaam aleikum,' '' Marcouch told me. ''They said, 'If we use force, things will escalate.' I said so what? If it escalates, it escalates, but I will not accept that our police will not do their job in our neighborhood.''
 Marcouch represents an interesting possibility for the European future -- one that might mirror the American immigrant story in some ways -- in which newcomers internalize the ways of their adopted land and apply them with an intensity that natives may have lost. He told me he believes the problems in the Netherlands today mostly stem from the fact that the Dutch don't read their own history and aren't aware of their traditions, including both pioneering the notion of tolerance and trying to define its appropriate limits. If they did understand, he says, they would apply their own laws. ''The police must be responsible for protecting society,'' he says. ''And the Dutch must learn their own history. That's the way to eliminate Wilders.'' Ahmed Marcouch is now running for Parliament -- on the ticket of Job Cohen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Job Cohen, leader of the Dutch Labor Party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENDRIK KERSTENS) (MM24)
KEEPING THINGS TOGETHER: Job Cohen, as mayor of Amsterdam, reached out to the Moroccan community. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOOST VAN DEN BROEK/REDUX/HOLLANDSE HOOGTE) (MM27)
 KEEPING THINGS APART: Geert Wilders (right), the conservative anti-immigrant candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCEL ANTONISSE/AP PHOTO) (MM28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISTORY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITIES (74%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); MAYORS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); GRANDPARENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) NETHERLANDS (96%); EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (79%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



764 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Views and Vegetation; Vehicle a Plus

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
CHARLES DeSTEFANO'S childhood memories of a certain Staten Island neighborhood were of quiet and beauty. So when he decided to move there nearly 40 years later, he was glad, and a bit shocked, to find that nothing had changed.
 The neighborhood is Lighthouse Hill, a woodsy, residential segment of Staten Island that abuts the Greenbelt, the expanse of parkland occupying the borough's midsection. When Mr. DeStefano's family moved to the Island from Park Slope, Brooklyn, in 1972, he and his friends enjoyed exploring its lush, beckoning terrain. If they were daring, they would climb the steep hill that led to the Staten Island Lighthouse, the 90-foot-high yellow-brick structure whose signal has been guiding ships into New York Harbor since 1912. 
 The neighborhood's charm stayed with him. Years later, a second date with his future wife, Ana, involved a hike that ended at the lighthouse. In 2007 the couple, who have two young sons, paid $810,000 for a four-bedroom three-bath modern saltbox house on Edinboro Road. 
 ''It's kind of a romantic thing to have a lighthouse on your block,'' said Mr. DeStefano, a 49-year-old lawyer. ''It beams every night.'' 
 Lighthouse Hill is bounded to the east by Rockland Avenue, to the south by Richmond Road and to the north and west by LaTourette Park and Golf Course. The neighborhood, which was home to almost 1,800 people at the time of the 2000 census, occupies less than a square mile, much of it dense with tall trees that overhang narrow and winding streets. The general lack of sidewalks intensifies the suburban ambience, and walking along some streets it is possible to gaze over the roofs of houses built into the steep hill and see across Staten Island to New York Harbor and the Atlantic Ocean.
 The rustic beauty and relative seclusion that have drawn many of today's Lighthouse Hill residents -- often from Brooklyn and other Staten Island neighborhoods -- are hardly new selling points. In the early 1900s, while the lighthouse was still under construction, one of the area's early developers, William Platt, boasted of ''a country of unimagined possibilities; a land of paradise,'' according to a brochure at the Staten Island Historical Society. ''Have you the desire to be your own Landlord, to own your home on a grand picturesque plateau with the most magnificent view of the Ocean and Bay?''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Lighthouse Hill is first and foremost known as the site of the Crimson Beech, the only house built by Frank Lloyd Wright in New York City. The house's presence, however glamorous, has been known to divert attention from the expansiveness and architectural variety of the neighborhood as a whole. 
 On the wide, well-spaced lots sit Cape Cods, ranches, angular contemporaries, cottages built into steep hills and the occasional large new house. 
 One particularly intriguing specimen is at 190 Meisner Avenue. Built in the 1850s and crowned by a widow's walk, it was accorded landmark status in 2007. A sign in its front window reads ''Haunted House for Sale,'' and a doormat tells visitors: ''The house was clean last week. Sorry you missed it.'' The yard, which contains a horse roundabout and a carriage house, has stone statues of lions, jockeys and a monkey reading a book. 
 ''All the houses are different,'' said Sari Kingsley, a neighborhood resident for more than 40 years and the owner of Sari Kingsley Real Estate. ''We don't have cookie-cutter houses.''
 This was part of the appeal for Laurie Crawford. Last August, she and her husband, Allyn, moved to Lighthouse Hill from Westerleigh, the Staten Island neighborhood where he grew up. With their daughter entering high school and one son entering college, they felt prepared to sell their renovated Victorian and buy a smaller home in the neighborhood that Mr. Crawford, as a native Staten Islander, had always considered ''one of the nicer places one could live.'' 
 The move meant forfeiting some conveniences. For example, in Westerleigh they had a deli around the corner. ''Now we have to get into the car for everything,'' said Ms. Crawford, who is originally from Midwood, Brooklyn. ''But that's the tradeoff for country living within the city.'' 
 They paid $680,000 for their three-bedroom two-bath ranch on Kent Street. The price, Mr. Crawford said, reflected the fact that the house needed some work. Since moving in, they have renovated the cinder-block basement into a livable space accommodating a laundry room, a full bath and a media room. 
 The kitchen is a bit outdated -- Ms. Crawford described the house's aesthetic as ''very 1960s'' -- but remodeling plans were temporarily shelved in March, after a windstorm brought two blue spruce trees down on their house, causing about $15,000 worth of damage. 
 Some residents compare Lighthouse Hill favorably to the Island's other ''Hills'': Emerson Hill and Todt Hill. A renovated four-bedroom house In Todt Hill might command close to $2 million, whereas the same house in Lighthouse Hill might bring $1.1 million to $1.3 million, said Laird Klein, a broker for Vitale Sunshine Realtors.
 ''You can live in Lighthouse Hill on a very grand scale,'' he said, ''and also on a simple scale.''
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 The variety of housing types and states of renovation mean a wide price spectrum. About half a dozen houses are for sale, at prices ranging from about $725,000 to $1.175 million, Mr. Klein said. 
 According to Ms. Kingsley, the average sale price in Lighthouse Hill was $954,000 last year and $715,000 in 2008. Factors affecting price include lot size and the quality of the view, she said.
 Mr. Klein summed up the market this way: ''You have smaller, very cottagey Capes that have not been renovated, and they typically go in the $600,000s and $700,000s. And you have bigger homes that have been redone that go well over $1 million.'' But he said the recession had been felt in fewer $1 million-and-over sales.
 Houses are staying on the market for about four months, versus six months or more a year ago, Mr. Klein said. According to Ms. Kingsley, houses sold in 2009 averaged 178 days on the market.
 Still, there is not a lot of turnover. Mr. DeStefano, the lawyer who lives near the lighthouse, put it this way: ''They say that people who live in this neighborhood are very incestuous, in the sense that one person will move from one end of the block to another. People don't like to leave here. They move from one house to the next.''
 WHAT TO DO
 Lighthouse Hill is adjacent to Historic Richmond Town, a museum and village with activities for children. Just across LaTourette Park at 435 Richmond Hill Road is Decker Farm, which has been a working farm since 1810, according to Ed Wiseman, Richmond Town's executive director. The farm stand, open Saturday mornings, sells a variety of produce, as well as eggs, breads and cheeses. 
 The Staten Island Mall, also just across the park, is a short drive away, as are shops along New Dorp Lane.
 At the Jacques Marchais Museum of Tibetan Art, at 338 Lighthouse Avenue, most of the permanent collection once belonged to the museum's founder and namesake, who died in 1948 and had never visited Tibet. ''She moved up here because of the view, and because of the remoteness, back in 1921,'' said Meg Ventrudo, the museum's executive director. 
 Admission is $5, and tai chi and meditation classes are among the offerings. The Dalai Lama has visited.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Elementary schools nearby include Public School 23, on Natick Street, for prekindergarten through Grade 5. Last year 85.5 percent of fourth graders met standards in English and 92.8 percent in math, versus 68.9 and 84.9 citywide.
 Among nearby middle schools is Intermediate School 72 Rocco Laurie, on Ferndale Avenue, for Grades 6 through 8. In 2009, 60.7 percent of eighth graders met standards in English, 78.1 percent in math, versus 57 and 71.3 citywide.
 Staten Island Technical High School, on Clawson Street, serves Grades 9 through 12. SAT averages last year were 623 in reading, 657 in math and 627 in writing, versus 435, 459 and 432 citywide. 
 THE COMMUTE
 Buses ply Richmond Road, the southern border. Via the 74 bus, the Staten Island Ferry is about 20 minutes away.
 The neighborhood is closest to the New Dorp stop on the Staten Island Railway, which is a 19-minute ride to the ferry.
 THE HISTORY
 William Platt, the early 1900s developer, marketed the area as Hampton Court. The name changed after the lighthouse's completion in 1912; today the automated light is operated by the United States Coast Guard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COME HITHER: The Staten Island Lighthouse has guided ships into New York Harbor for 98 years. In the words of one area resident: ''It's kind of a romantic thing to have a lighthouse on your block. It beams every night.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA GILLARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HIKING (76%); CENSUS (52%); LAWYERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



765 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: Extra Innings

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Bridgewater, N.J.
 YANKEES fans of a certain vintage finding themselves at TD Bank Ballpark here often break out in nostalgic grins when the mascot for the home team, the Somerset Patriots, climbs up on the dugout roof to lead a cheer. Like minor-league baseball clubs everywhere, the Patriots pay someone with the soul of a birthday party clown to spend the summer inside a fuzzy creature costume, wandering the grandstand to high-five 8-year-olds and otherwise rev up the fans. Sparkee, a grayish hound, is an exemplar of the species. 
 The name is slightly familiar, but it's the bushy mustache that tickles the memory. Back in the 1970s, the Yanks had a fun-loving, irreverent, gifted relief pitcher named Sparky Lyle, and darn if the mustache on that oversize cartoon hound dog doesn't look like old Sparky's. 
 Then the manager of the Patriots saunters onto the field and all becomes clear: there's that mustache again on the man himself. Yup: Sparky Lyle, wearing the No. 28 jersey, same as he did in Yankees pinstripes, has spent the last dozen years leading the Patriots to five Atlantic League championships (including the last two) and becoming the team's most enduring symbol. Sparkee the mascot attests to that; so does the Sparky half-pound burger on sale at the concession stand ($6.75).
 Mr. Lyle is an intriguing entry in the parlor game of Whatever Happened To? For seven seasons, he was a stellar Yankee, an indefatigable left-hander whose swooping slider helped win him a Cy Young Award -- a rare honor for a reliever -- in 1977. He was also a bit of a goofball, known for clubhouse high jinks (his specialty was sitting naked in birthday cakes), and the co-author of one of baseball literature's most popular tomes, a tell-all diary of the 1978 season called ''The Bronx Zoo,'' in which he dished dirt on the likes of Reggie Jackson, Billy Martin and George Steinbrenner. Altogether Mr. Lyle played 16 seasons in the big leagues for five teams, winning 99 games and losing 76. 
 After his retirement in 1982, he stayed away from baseball for 15 years, cobbling together a living as an ex-athlete, appearing at memorabilia shows and banquets and acting in beer commercials. For a while he worked alongside Mickey Mantle at the former Claridge Casino Hotel in Atlantic City, playing golf and hanging out at the bar with high rollers, and shepherding Mantle, an alcoholic, to his room when he started getting belligerent.
 ''Believe it or not, they hired me to keep Mickey out of trouble,'' said Mr. Lyle, who called his time at the Claridge ''the best five years of my life.'' 
 By the mid-1990s, Mr. Lyle was living in Voorhees, N.J., a half-hour east of Philadelphia, supporting his wife and three sons with speaking engagements. In 1997, he was in the market for a truck and an old baseball buddy sent him to a dealer who happened to be trying to build a ballpark here and put together a team to play in it. 
 ''Sparky came up to see me, and I thought he looked like a caricature of Sparky Lyle,'' recalled the dealer, Steven B. Kalafer. ''We have a standard joke now -- we introduce him as the man who used to be Sparky Lyle. Anyway, I was selling him the truck, and I said, 'Sparky, have you ever thought of managing a baseball club?' And he said, 'Who would ever hire me as a baseball manager?' ''
 Mr. Lyle is 65 now, an affable, beefy man with the sinews of an athletic past evident in his arms and shoulders. His hair is silvery -- he still wears it long -- and so is the mustache. He speaks in an amused-sounding growl, maybe because amusement is his default mood, maybe because he still cannot believe the serendipity that led him here, to the second act of his baseball life.
 ''I wasn't one of these guys who kept missing the game and wishing I could pitch and be in the limelight,'' he said before a recent game, sitting in his undershorts in his shoebox office, making out a lineup card. ''I walked away on my own. I could have gone and played in '83. I had a couple of offers to go to spring training. But I said no. It was the best thing I ever did in my life. I had peace of mind. I never looked back.'' 
 THE Atlantic League is an exotic baseball backwater, fully professional yet virtually off the radar of even rabid fans. Its eight teams -- spread out across New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Maryland -- are unaffiliated with any major-league franchise. The players are mostly discards from the affiliated system hoping to play their way back into it; by most assessments, the level of play hovers between that of Class AA and Class AAA ball.
 Since its founding in 1998, the league has had its share of recognizable names. Jim Leyritz and Jose Canseco played for the Newark Bears in 2001, Rickey Henderson in 2003. In 2005, Jered Weaver, who now pitches for the Los Angeles Angels, was a Camden Rivershark, and Corey Hart, now of the Milwaukee Brewers, was an infielder for the Bridgeport Bluefish. Mr. Lyle's fellow managers are also ex-major leaguers, a roster that would delight trivia buffs: Andy Etchebarren, Von Hayes, Tommy Herr, Butch Hobson, Dave LaPoint, Tim Raines and Willie Upshaw.
 It's a peculiar competitive environment. The players, all hoping to quickly move on, are never under contract for more than a single season, so most fans know little about them. Families with young children fill the stands, as focused on what Sparkee the mascot is doing with free T-shirts as on what Sparky the manager is doing on the field. 
 This suits Mr. Lyle fine. It delights him that Mr. Kalafer has never made a single suggestion about strategy or deployment of players. And it delights Mr. Kalafer that the Patriots are making money: the ballpark has a capacity of 6,100 and the team filled an average of 5,305 seats over 70 home games last season (ticket prices range from $5 to $12.50).
 ''We have pride, the community has pride, but winning championships doesn't affect ticket sales,'' Mr. Kalafer said from the owner's box during a recent Saturday night game. ''Sparky has done a very good job. But I don't measure our success in winning championships. I measure it on the fans, if they feel they've gotten a good experience for an affordable price, if they come back.''
 It was the sixth inning, and the Patriots were leading Bridgeport by 11-0 (the game would end 11-3). Mr. Kalafer pointed to the empty seats and the steady trickle of fans heading for the exit.
 ''When people go to Broadway, rarely will they leave before the third act,'' he noted. ''When they go to Yankee Stadium, they paid a lot of money, they're going to stay the nine innings. Here, at least 60 percent of the fans don't know who won or who lost, and they leave because they have to put the kids to bed.''
 WHAT does sometimes worry Mr. Kalafer is Mr. Lyle's renegade personality. Last fall during the league championship series, Mr. Lyle blew a gasket at the umpires after an exchange of beanballs. During a long and demonstrative argument, he was booed by the crowd -- the game was at the home of the Southern Maryland Blue Crabs -- and responded by grabbing his crotch. 
 ''I was madder than I'd been in 20 years,'' Mr. Lyle recalled.
 He was suspended for several games at the start of this season, and reprimanded by Mr. Kalafer, who reminded him that the Patriots -- indeed, the entire Atlantic League -- cannot afford to alienate its family-based audience. 
 But the ungoverned side of Mr. Lyle's personality works well in the dugout. He commands respect with his resume, but manages as one of the guys. During practice one afternoon, Mr. Lyle was swatting ground balls to infielders when he tripped over the plastic apron that sits under the batting cage to protect the grass. He went tumbling, leapt up cursing and then said to no one in particular: ''I'm O.K. I'm O.K.'' But most of the players were doubled up in hysterics. 
 With experienced players, he has not had to do much teaching and does not exercise much discipline. As Mr. Lyle explained again and again in ''The Bronx Zoo,'' professional ballplayers know what to do on the field and know how to take care of themselves off of it; they resent managers who have a lot of rules or who insist on doing the thinking for them. He thinks that minor-league organizations too often produce robotic players. 
 ''Every organization has its own way of doing things, from A-ball on up, and these guys get used to waiting for some sign from the manager to tell them what to do,'' Mr. Lyle said. ''If I get a new infielder, and he's looking in the dugout, like 'Hey, should I play in?' I'll go, 'What the hell do you think? The runners are on first and third and the score is tied!' ''
 More than one player, asked for a quintessential Sparky story, brought up his standard party joke: slipping his false teeth into someone's drink. 
 ''He's definitely a player's manager,'' said Josh Pressley, a 30-year-old first baseman. ''He's a classic two rules guy: 'Play hard and be on time.' He goes, 'There'll be a bed check on the road. If your bed's there, you're fine.' ''
 ALBERT WALTER LYLE was born and raised in Reynoldsville, a blue-collar town in western Pennsylvania, where his father was a carpenter and a contractor and his mother was a seamstress in a coffin factory. They called him Sparky from an early age.
 ''My dad wanted a dog,'' he explained dryly.
 He played basketball and football at Reynoldsville-Winslow High; there was no baseball team. He played American Legion ball, once striking out 31 batters during a 17-inning game in the state tournament.
 ''But I only pitched 14 innings,'' he noted. ''I played three innings at first base. That was when I first got noticed.''
 Mr. Lyle averaged 17 strikeouts a game in a local men's league; he had a standard repertory back then -- fastball, curve, changeup -- but not overpowering speed. The Pittsburgh Pirates brought him in for a tryout alongside another young pitcher, Bruce Dal Canton, who eventually threw 11 seasons in the big leagues, and whose live fastball captured everyone's attention that day.
 ''The scouts were all watching him, and they liked him,'' Mr. Lyle recalled. ''One guy turns to me and says, 'O.K., I want you to really let a couple go.' And I said, 'Well, I have been.' He just said, 'You don't throw hard enough. You can go home. Have a nice time.' ''
 At 19, Mr. Lyle signed with the Baltimore Orioles, and spent the 1964 season playing for their affiliate teams in Bluefield, W.Va. -- where the manager was Jim Frey, who would go on to lead the Kansas City Royals to the 1980 American League pennant and who is now vice chairman of the Somerset Patriots -- and the Fox Cities in Wisconsin. It was Mr. Frey who first used Mr. Lyle as a reliever. 
 ''I told him, 'You know, I can throw every day,' '' Mr. Lyle said. ''He said, 'You can?' I said, 'Yeah, my arm doesn't get sore.' So that's how that got started.''
 The following year found him in the Red Sox organization, where Ted Williams, then a spring training instructor, introduced him to the slider. ''He told me it was the best pitch in baseball because it was the only pitch he couldn't hit even when he knew it was coming,'' Mr. Lyle recalled. ''He said, 'I'll tell you how it spins. You got to work out the rest of it yourself.' 
 ''I was in Double A, and I would lie in bed at night with the ball in my hand, thinking: 'How do I make it spin like that?' I was living in a converted garage, and one night about three o'clock in the morning I went out and started throwing this ball against the side of the garage, and it started going'' -- he made a sudden downward swoop with his left hand -- ''ptchoooooom!
 ''The next day I went to the ballpark, and my catcher, Bob Montgomery, was warming me up, and I said, 'Slider,' and he says, ''You don't have a slider.' And I said, 'Yesterday I didn't have one, but I got one today.' And he starts laughing, and I threw it and the first one hit him in the foot.
 ''I never developed another pitch. They couldn't hit that one, so what the hell.''
 THESE days, Mr. Lyle spends a lot of time in his car -- a Ford Fusion that Mr. Kalafer supplies (the truck is long gone). He still lives in Voorhees, about 70 miles from the ballpark, on a small lake where he likes to fish for bass. Though the team travels by bus to away games, Mr. Lyle always drives. For home games he arrives several hours early; just as he did as a player, he bolts the locker room as soon as he can when the game is over. 
 ''He gets home at midnight and leaves around 11 in the morning,'' said his wife, Mary. They were set up by a Yankees teammate and have been married 34 years, including three pennant-winning Yankees seasons. ''When he was pitching, I went to just about every game,'' she recalled. ''We loved those days.''
 The Lyles are an example of how starkly the economics of baseball have changed over a generation. It's hard to imagine one of today's stars, 15 years out of the game, seizing on a job that, as Mrs. Lyle described it, ''was a good opportunity because it gave us some security.'' 
 Mr. Lyle retired from baseball earning $300,000 annually, $100,000 less than the minimum big-league salary today. ''I'd take their meal money,'' he said with a laugh. The Patriots pay him in the low six figures; Atlantic League players make a maximum of $3,000 a month.
 Mrs. Lyle said that her husband worried more now than he did as a player -- ''and the traveling, particularly around August, gets a little old'' -- but that returning to the field had given him a baseball identity that sometimes got lost amid the antics.
 ''It had sort of become a joke for us, all the sitting in the cake stuff,'' she said. ''And I know he would think, 'Oh jeez, I had a pretty decent career, and all I get remembered for is sitting in birthday cakes.' Well, you know, he's 60-something years old now. He isn't 30 with a cute butt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE, TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
LEFT, ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MB1)
 IN THE DUGOUT: Sparky Lyle has managed the Somerset Patriots for a dozen years. Fans follow Sparkee the mascot, at bottom, as much as Sparky the manager, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); GOLF (72%); BEER & ALE (69%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); WRITERS (67%); CASINOS (64%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%)

COMPANY: BALLY'S PARK PLACE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



766 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Insurance Easier to Obtain

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WITH private mortgage insurance considerably tougher to get last year than at any point in decades, many borrowers flocked to loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration.
 They had little choice. Lenders typically will not offer mortgages to borrowers with down payments below 20 percent, unless the borrowers get insurance to indemnify the lender in the event of a default. And the federal government was the only entity willing to back many of these borrowers during the housing market slump.
 Now private mortgage insurance, or P.M.I., could be making a comeback. Some mortgage insurance companies like Genworth Financial and Radian Guaranty have been easing underwriting standards -- sometimes eliminating geographic restrictions, in the case of Genworth, for instance, and offering insurance to some borrowers with down payments of as little as 5 percent. 
 Rohit Gupta, the chief commercial officer for Genworth's domestic mortgage insurance business, attributed the relaxed standards to a more stable housing market, along with improved financial conditions for the nation's major mortgage insurance companies.
 Yet while availability is improving, industrywide premiums remain at the elevated levels they reached in 2008. For a loan of $417,000, for example, borrowers now pay an average of 0.62 percent of the loan amount, or $215.45 a month, according to Mr. Gupta and other industry executives. Before 2008, the rate would have been 0.52 percent, or $180.70, they said. 
 Larger loans typically incur even larger premiums, while at the same time some insurers may require higher credit scores from borrowers in areas with declining property values. MGIC, for instance, offers insurance to Long Island borrowers with FICO scores of at least 720 for loans of $417,000 or less.
 Oftentimes, monthly payments on loans with private mortgage insurance exceed payment amounts on F.H.A. mortgages, even though the agency charges a one-time fee of 2.25 percent of the loan amount in addition to monthly premiums of about 0.50 percent.
 For a $500,000 loan in Manhattan, for instance, a borrower with a 720 credit score would face monthly payments of $2,995 with a 30-year fixed-rate loan insured by the F.H.A., and carrying a 5.5 percent interest rate, said Marc Demetriou, the manager of the Bloomingdale, N.J., branch of Residential Home Funding, a mortgage banker.
 With private mortgage insurance instead of F.H.A. insurance, the same borrower would face a total monthly payment of at least $2,968, Mr. Demetriou said.
 Yet if you can qualify for both an F.H.A. loan and a loan carrying private mortgage insurance, other factors can help sway your decision against an F.H.A.-insured mortgage.
 Mr. Demetriou, who is also licensed to offer F.H.A.-insured loans, says borrowers who opt for private insurance save roughly $11,250 in up-front F.H.A. fees on a $500,000 loan. They can drop their private mortgage insurance coverage when they reach 20 percent equity in their homes, either through paying down the principal or home price appreciation. The F.H.A. requires premium payments for five years, regardless.
 Some lenders will also consider paying the mortgage insurance on the borrower's behalf if the borrower agrees to an interest rate a quarter of a percentage point higher. That arrangement, known as lender-paid mortgage insurance, can halve the monthly premium costs, said Michael Dziuba, the senior vice president for field sales of Radian Guaranty. 
 The F.H.A., however, may be the only option for borrowers with credit scores below 680, or down payments under 5 percent.
 Not all mortgage insurance is the same, meanwhile. Genworth says it will cover the payments of unemployed borrowers for up to six months, at a maximum of $2,000 monthly. So it is worth shopping around.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH ASSOCIATES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE INSURANCE (93%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%)

COMPANY: GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (57%); FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (54%)

TICKER: GNW (NYSE) (57%); FICO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



767 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: In Czar Peter's Footsteps

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
MOSCOW
 THREE hundred years ago, after becoming king of the creaky behemoth that was Russia, Peter Romanov went west. Traveling under a pseudonym, the czar turned himself into an apprentice -- studying European advances in shipbuilding, firefighting, dentistry, locksmithing and parliamentary procedure, among other cutting-edge technologies. 
 He returned to remake Russia. The poor rebelled at switching to the European calendar (as far as they knew, it was 7208) and aristocrats stood in livid silence as he hacked off their beards. But Peter insisted that it was in Russia's interest to integrate westward, writing later that other nations ''are working diligently to exclude us from the enlightened world.'' 
 That line of argument is surfacing again in Moscow. Next month, in California, President Dmitri A. Medvedev will spend a day acquainting himself with Silicon Valley, the template for a new scientific city that the government is building outside Moscow. And increasingly -- as sketched out in a Foreign Ministry working paper leaked to Russian Newsweek this month -- policymakers are airing a new principle: Russia needs alliances with the West if it hopes to modernize.
 The impulse is no surprise. In recent months, Moscow has acknowledged the Soviet massacre of Polish officers at Katyn 70 years ago; invited NATO troops to march in Red Square; and offered cautious support for sanctions on Iran. Alongside those gestures, Russia is pursuing economic goals like visa-free travel arrangements with the European Union and admission to the World Trade Organization. 
 More revealing is the reasoning behind it. The leaked Foreign Ministry draft suggests that foreign policy can be marshaled to help Russia attract investment, acquire new technology, update crumbling infrastructure and wean itself from dependence on resource extraction -- all challenges that came into painful focus when the price of oil fell. 
 Absent is the language of NATO encirclement and external threat that appear in Russia's official military doctrine, including an update Mr. Medvedev approved four months ago. Fyodor Lukyanov, editor in chief of the journal Russia in Global Affairs, dwelt in amazement on one strategic goal in the draft -- ''to form the image of Russia as a desirable partner and ally for European countries.'' For Moscow, he said, that is revolutionary. 
 ''If Russia, finally, in the spirit of the 'diplomatic smile' is able to overcome the inferiority complex which has gnawed at it since the collapse of the Soviet Union,'' he wrote in an editorial, ''maybe a new chapter is really beginning.'' 
 On both sides of the ocean, skeptics have dismissed the leak as sweet nothings directed, above all, at the European Union and the White House. When Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov was asked about it, he derided Russian Newsweek's journalists as ''masters of sensationalism''; still, he lent the draft some authority by calling it ''absolutely routine work on the direct orders of the president.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Medvedev has argued that diplomacy could have a direct economic payoff, and has stressed his belief that Russia be converted from an energy supplier to a modern European economy. 
 It's not clear how much agreement there is on that point, since oil and metals make up 80 percent of Russia's total exports. Pavel Salin, an analyst at the Center for Political Conjuncture, a political consulting firm here, said pro-Western elites in the government can now agree with counterparts who are suspicious of the West on this much: ''We will take technology from the West, but we will not adopt its political system.'' For that, he added, ''we need, at a minimum, nonconfrontational relations.''
 But it is not clear, either, that diplomacy can produce the kind of innovation Russia wants. Russia has a vibrant consumer market, but investors also look at its corruption and its problems with the rule of law. And even Mr. Medvedev's own flagship project -- the high-tech village of Skolkovo that has inspired his trip to Silicon Valley -- is fueled not by market forces but by state power. 
 ''Competition produces innovation,'' said Cliff Kupchan, a director at the Eurasia Group, a global risk-consulting firm based in New York. ''I still don't see a working appreciation of that.'' 
 Still, Mr. Kupchan said, the Newsweek draft may represent a genuinely new strain of thinking. Russia has long looked west for technology to exploit its oil and gas resources, he said, but has rarely suggested that it needs outsiders to help fix its bad roads, low worker productivity and energy inefficiency.
 That notion would have sounded outlandish here before the financial crisis underlined Russia's dependence on Western capital -- and before Barack Obama offered a reboot of Russian-American relations. ''The 'reset' has provided political cover, so that it doesn't look like Russia backing down, but like Russia facing a new challenge in becoming a modern country,'' said Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. 
 In any case, it would be a mistake to confuse the reach for technology with a yearning for lasting closeness. Slavophiles still blame Peter the Great for forcing Western customs on Russia, but the foreign experts who flocked to Russia at his invitation were replaced, as soon as possible, by Russians they had trained. Historians tell us he distrusted Europe to the end of his life. 
 The czar said as much himself, according to a trusted minister. ''Europe is necessary for us for a few decades,'' he said. ''Then we must turn our back to her.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEEN THERE: Nikita Khrushchev, too, inspected American technology, on a visit to I.B.M. in 1959. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL MYDANS/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); WRITERS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); JOURNALISM (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



768 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: A Silicon Valley Relaunch

BYLINE: By LANI CONWAY

 BODY:
REDWOOD CITY, about 25 miles south of San Francisco, was a bustling shipping and lumber town in the mid-19th century, until it fell off the radar in the '70s -- owing, in part, to major retail development in nearby Palo Alto -- and was tagged with the unfortunate nickname Deadwood City. But over the last few years, this sleepy Silicon Valley suburb has begun shaking off that moniker, re-emerging with an influx of new restaurants, shops and theaters. The town is also striving to preserve historic landmarks, like the glass-domed courthouse, which celebrates its centennial this summer with outdoor concerts and a Fourth of July dedication ceremony. 
 ''Redwood City used to be so quiet, you could throw a bowling ball down Broadway at six o'clock at night,'' said Pat Webb, sitting in the newly installed Courthouse Square, a European-style piazza sprinkled with Italianesque stone fountains and wooden tables and chairs. Ms. Webb, the city's housing and economic development manager, helped spearhead a $50 million downtown revitalization project, which added retail shops and restaurants along Theater Way, and created more pedestrian-friendly streetscapes. 
 There's a buzz of activity along Main Street and palm-tree-lined Broadway, which runs in front of the square. Recent newcomers include Martins West (831 Main Street; 650-366-4366; martinswestgp.com), a gastropub that opened last May. Housed in the century-old Alhambra theater, this cozy brick-walled spot is packed on weekends with crowds enjoying dishes like smoked rabbit sausage ($6) and chicken breast cooked sous vide and served with savory soda bread pudding ($17). 
 A few doors down, Angelica's Bistro (863 Main Street; 650-365-3226; angelicasbistro.com) is the only place in town where you can dine on French crepes ($7.50) and tap your toes to a Wednesday night jazz jam session, surrounded by European paintings and 200-year-old Italian statues. 
 Another standout is Donato Enoteca (1041 Middlefield Road; 650-701-1000; donatoenoteca.com), which opened last June. The chef, Donato Scotti, dishes up Italian specialties like grilled calamari ($9) and satisfyingly simple buckwheat pasta with wild mushrooms ($15). The wraparound patio with red sofas is perfect for sampling the grappa list. 
 Although Redwood City is not known (yet) for shopping options, Pickled (2652 Broadway; 650-299-0990; pickledclothing.com) is one promising pick. The trendy women's boutique sells items like casual Michael Stars tops ($58) and Citizen designer jeans ($159).
 If you happen to be in the market for vintage fittings, head to Old Truck Antiques (2400 Broadway; 650-367-9625; oldtruckantiques.com), which opened last fall. It's packed neatly with an eclectic collection that includes Saturn sewing machines, 19th-century brass bed frames and military uniforms.
 The German store and bar Gourmet Haus Staudt (2615 Broadway; 650-364-9232; gourmethausstaudt.com), run by the Staudt family for 35 years, is stocked with foods and gifts, like eight-pound jars of sauerkraut ($16.25) and boot-shaped beer mugs ($96). The real treasure is Volker Staudt's beer garden, with 11 German beers on tap. ''We're kind of like a German speakeasy,'' Mr. Staudt said. ''People hear about us mainly through word of mouth.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Redwood City, Calif., the courthouse, which turns 100 this year, in the newly installed Courthouse Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOR SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



769 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Follow My Logic? A Connective Word Takes the Lead

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
SO this is about the word ''so.''
 There, I did it. And if you speak English for work or pleasure, there is a fair chance that you've done it, too.
 ''So'' may be the new ''well,'' ''um,'' ''oh'' and ''like.'' No longer content to lurk in the middle of sentences, it has jumped to the beginning, where it can portend many things: transition, certitude, logic, attentiveness, a major insight.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, late last year: ''So it's not only because we believe that universal values support human rights being recognized and respected, but we think that it's in the best interest for economic growth and political stability. So we believe that.'' 
 A dispatch on National Public Radio last month, in which a quarter of the sentences began with ''so'': ''So it's, I think, the fifth largest in the nation. So, but now that's the population in general. So there are sort of two, there are two things that are circumstantial...''
 A quotation in a report last month from Channel NewsAsia, based in Singapore: ''So what we're doing is -- elephants have had these migratory routes, basically like islands connecting parks between each other; they've got nowhere to move and people have encroached on them.
 ''So we negotiate with the people to move from the land. So what we do, we buy the land, build them houses off the corridors and give them exactly the same amount of arable land back...''
 One can dredge up ancient instances of ''so'' as a sentence starter. In his 14th-century poem ''Troilus and Criseyde,'' Chaucer launched a verse with, ''So on a day he leyde him doun to slepe. ...'' But for most of its life, ''so'' has principally been a conjunction, an intensifier and an adverb.
 What is new is its status as the favored introduction to thoughts, its encroachment on the territory of ''well,'' ''oh,'' ''um'' and their ilk.
 So it is widely believed that the recent ascendancy of ''so'' began in Silicon Valley. The journalist Michael Lewis picked it up when researching his 1999 book ''The New New Thing'': ''When a computer programmer answers a question,'' he wrote, ''he often begins with the word 'so.' '' Microsoft employees have long argued that the ''so'' boom began with them.
 In the software world, it was a tic that made sense. In immigrant-filled technology firms, it democratized talk by replacing a world of possible transitions with a catchall. And ''so'' suggested a kind of thinking that appealed to problem-solving software types: conversation as a logical, unidirectional process -- if this, then that.
 This logical tinge to ''so'' has followed it out of software. Compared to ''well'' and ''um,'' starting a sentence with ''so'' uses the whiff of logic to relay authority. Whereas ''well'' vacillates, ''so'' declaims.
 To answer a question with ''so'' better suits the age, perhaps: an age in which a Google-glued generation can look it up, while their parents would have said ''I don't know''; in which Facebook and Twitter encourage ordinary people -- not just politicians -- to stay on message; in which we are gravitating toward declamatory blogs and away from down-the-middle reporting.
 ''So'' also echoes the creeping influence of science- and data-driven culture. It would have been unimaginable a few decades ago that ordinary people would quantify daily activities like eating, sex and sleeping, or that software would calculate what songs we will like.
 But in the algorithmic times that have come, ''so'' conveys an algorithmic certitude. It suggests that there is a right answer, which the evidence dictates and which must not be contradicted. Among its synonyms, after all, are ''consequently,'' ''thus'' and ''therefore.''
 And yet Galina Bolden, a linguistics scholar who has studied of recorded ordinary conversations and has written academic papers on the use of ''so,'' believes that ''so'' is also about the culture of empathy that is gaining steam as the world embraces the increasing complexity of human backgrounds and geographies.
 To begin a sentence with ''oh,'' she said in an e-mail message, is to focus on what you have just remembered and your own concerns. To begin with ''so,'' she said, is to signal that one's coming words are chosen for their relevance to the listener.
 The ascendancy of ''so,'' Dr. Bolden said, ''suggests that we are concerned with displaying interest for others and downplaying our interest in our own affairs.''
 ''So'' seems also to reflect our fraught relationship with time.
 Today we live in fragments. You may be reading this column while toggling among your cellphone, iPad and laptop while eating lunch and proofreading a report. In such a world, ''so'' defragments, with its promise that what is coming next follows what just came, said Michael Erard, the author of ''Um...: Slips, Stumbles, and Verbal Blunders, and What They Mean.''
 The rise of ''so,'' he said via e-mail, is ''another symptom that our communication and conversational lives are chopped up and discontinuous in actual fact, but that we try in several ways to sew them together -- or 'so' them together, as it were -- in order to create a continuous experience.''
 Perhaps we all live now in fear that a conversation could snap at any moment, could be interrupted by so many rival offerings. With ''so,'' we beg to be heard. We insist, time and again, that this is it; this is what you've been waiting to hear; this is the ''so'' moment.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARIAN BANTJES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); POETRY (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); WRITERS (62%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



770 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: Dispatches From the Other

BYLINE: By FRANCINE du PLESSIX GRAY. 
Francine du Plessix Gray is writing a book about Marie Antoinette's lover, the Swedish diplomat Axel von Fersen.

 BODY:
THE SECOND SEX
 By Simone de Beauvoir
 Translated by Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevallier
 800 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $40
 In 1946, when Simone de Beauvoir began to write her landmark study of women, ''The Second Sex,'' legislation allowing French women to vote was little more than a year old. Birth control would be legally denied them until 1967. Next door, in Switzerland, women would not be enfranchised until 1971. Such repressive circumstances account for both the fierce, often wrathful urgency of Beauvoir's book and the vehement controversies this founding text of feminism aroused when it was first published in France in 1949 and in the United States in 1953. The Vatican placed it on the Index of Forbidden Books. Albert Camus complained that Beauvoir made Frenchmen look ridiculous. On these shores, the novelist Philip Wylie eulogized it as ''one of the few great books of our era,'' the psychiatrist Karl Menninger found it ''pretentious'' and ''tiresome,'' and a reviewer in The Atlantic Monthly faulted it for being ''bespattered with the repulsive lingo of existentialism.'' 
 In her splendid introduction to this new edition, Judith Thurman notes that Blanche Knopf, wife of Beauvoir's American publisher, heard about the book on a scouting trip to France and was under the impression that it was a highbrow sex manual. Knopf asked for a reader's report from a retired zoologist, Howard M. Parshley, who was then commissioned to do the translation. Knopf's husband urged Parshley to condense it significantly, noting that Beauvoir seemed to suffer from ''verbal diarrhea.'' Parshley complied, providing the necessary Imodium by cutting 15 percent of the original 972 pages. And so it was this truncated text, translated by a scientist with a college undergraduate's knowledge of French, that ushered two generations of women into the universe of feminist thought, inspiring pivotal later books like Betty Friedan's ''Feminine Mystique'' and Kate Millett's ''Sexual Politics.''
 Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevallier's new translation of ''The Second Sex'' is the first English-language edition in almost 60 years, and the first to restore the material Parshley excised. In this passionate, awesomely erudite work, Beauvoir examines the reasons women have been forced to accept a place in society secondary to that of men, despite the fact that women constitute half the human race. Supporting her arguments with data from biology, physiology, ethnology, anthropology, mythology, folklore, philosophy and economics, she documents the status of women throughout history, from the age of hunter-gatherers to the mid-20th century. In one of her most interesting chapters, ''The Married Woman'' (a chapter Parshley particularly savaged), she offers numerous quotations from the novels and diaries of Virginia Woolf, Colette, Edith Wharton, Sophia Tolstoy and others. She also scrutinizes the manner in which various male authors, from Montaigne to Stendhal to D. H. Lawrence, have represented women (and, in many cases, how they treated their wives). Urging women to persevere in their efforts at emancipation, she emphasizes that they must also do so for the sake of men: ''It is when the slavery of half of humanity is abolished and with it the whole hypocritical system it implies that the 'division' of humanity will reveal its authentic meaning and the human couple will discover its true form.''
 How does Beauvoir's book stand up more than a half-century later? And how does this new translation compare with the previous one? I'm sorry to report that ''The Second Sex,'' which I read with euphoric enthusiasm in my post-college years, now strikes me as being in many ways dated. Written in an era in which a minority of women were employed, its arguments for female participation in the work force seem particularly outmoded. And Beauvoir's truly paranoid hostility toward the institutions of marriage and motherhood -- another characteristic of early feminism -- is so extreme as to be occasionally hilarious. Every aspect of the female reproductive system, from puberty to menopause, is approached with the same ferocious disdain. Females of all living species are ''first violated . . . then alienated'' by the process of fertilization. Derogatory phrases like ''the servitude of maternity,'' ''woman's absurd fertility,'' the ''exhausting servitude'' of breast-feeding, abound. (How could they not, since the author sees heterosexual love in general as ''a mortal danger?'') According to Beauvoir, a girl's first menstruation, which many of us welcomed with excitement and pride, is met instead with ''disgust and fear. '' It '' inspires horror'' and ''signifies illness, suffering and death.'' Beauvoir doesn't appear to have spent much time with children or teenagers: a first menses, in her view, leads the girl to be ''disgusted by her too-carnal body, by menstrual blood, by adults' sexual practices, by the male she is destined for.''
 If Beauvoir's ruminations on ''the curse'' are pessimistic (and pessimism runs through ''The Second Sex'' like a poisonous river) her reflections on sexual initiation and marriage make them sound like torture. She chooses the most brutal examples of deflorations -- mostly rapes -- to make her points. Wedding nights ''transform the erotic experience into an ordeal'' that ''often dooms the woman to frigidity forever.'' It isn't surprising, she adds, ''that 'conjugal duties' are often only a repugnant chore for the wife.'' ''No one,'' she argues, ''dreams of denying the tragedies and nastiness of married life.'' Conjugal love, in Beauvoir's view, is ''a complex mixture of attachment, resentment, hatred, rules, resignation, laziness and hypocrisy.'' Even marriages that ''work well'' suffer ''a curse they rarely escape: boredom.'' Already alarmed? Wait until you come to the discussion of motherhood. A woman experiences the fetus as ''a parasite.'' ''Maternity is a strange compromise of narcissism, altruism, dream, sincerity, bad faith, devotion and cynicism.'' ''There is nothing like an 'unnatural mother,' since maternal love has nothing natural about it.'' It is significant that the only stage of a woman's life Beauvoir has good things to say about is widowhood, which, in her view, most bear quite cheerfully. Upon losing their spouses, she tells us, women, ''now lucid and wary, . . . often attain a delicious cynicism.'' In old age, they maintain ''a stoic defiance or skeptical irony.''
 It should be noted that Beauvoir, at least in her personal life, did not hate men. They were, in fact, central to her happiness; she merely loathed the institutions imposed on women by what she considered a patriarchal society. Her lifetime companion, Jean-Paul Sartre, the more conventional of this dazzling couple, proposed to ''Castor'' and was rejected with the comment that he was being ''silly.'' (The nickname Castor, French for ''Beaver,'' was inspired by Beauvoir's prolific output and her compulsively disciplined work habits; she researched and wrote ''The Second Sex'' in a mere 14 months, while pursuing several other projects.) A tiny beauty with severely plaited dark hair and a regal manner, always fastidiously attired, she was highly attractive to men. Her complex erotic relationship with Sartre, which occasionally involved the sharing of female partners, and her ardent affair with the American writer Nelson Algren, indicate that she had a pronounced sexual appetite. And though she might have been loath to admit it, both men had a profound impact on the writing of ''The Second Sex.'' It was Algren who persuaded Beauvoir to expand one of her earlier essays on women into a book-length work. And it was Sartre who provided one of the book's two basic insights: the existentialist notion of an opposition between a sovereign self (Man) and an objectified Other (Woman), who, limited by her weaker physical strength and the travails of motherhood, must abide by Man's dictates.
 The other pivotal notion at the heart of ''The Second Sex'' -- a more problematic one, which Beauvoir came to on her own -- is her belief that, in Parshley's translation, ''one is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.'' This preposterous assertion, intended to bolster her argument that marriage and motherhood are institutions imposed by men to curb women's freedom, will be denied by any mother who has seen her toddler son eagerly grab for a toy in the shape of a vehicle or a gun, while at the same time showing a total lack of interest in his sister's cherished dolls. It has also been disputed by certain feminist scholars, who would argue that many gender differences are innate rather than acquired.
 Yet notwithstanding its misconceptions and frequent obsolescence, ''The Second Sex'' retains an awesome majesty and continues to provide many astute insights into women's lot. Among the best parts of Beauvoir's book are those on women artists and intellectuals. Why have women not created art as great as men's? she asks. Women's overwhelming desire to please is at fault. The truly original writer is ''always scandalous,'' and women's desire to please keeps them from daring to ''irritate, explore, explode.''
 Should we rejoice that this first unabridged edition of ''The Second Sex'' appears in a new translation? I, for one, do not. Executed by two American women who have lived in Paris for many years and taught English at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques, it doesn't begin to flow as nicely as Parshley's. A few instances: Writing about the aggressive nature of man's penetration of woman, Parshley felicitously translates a Beauvoir phrase as ''her inwardness is violated.'' In contrast, Borde and Malovany-Chevallier's rendering states that woman ''is like a raped interiority.'' And where Parshley has Beauvoir saying of woman, ''It is she who defines herself by dealing with nature on her own account in her emotional life,'' the new translators substitute, ''It is she who defines herself by reclaiming nature for herself in her affectivity.'' In yet another example, man's approach to woman's ''dangerous magic'' is seen this way in Parshley: ''He sets her up as the essential, it is he who poses her as such and thus he really acts as the essential in this voluntary alienation.'' But in Borde and Malovany-Chevallier, ''it is he who posits her, and he who realizes himself thereby as the essential in this alienation he grants.'' Throughout, there are truly inexcusable passages in which the translators even lack a proper sense of English syntax: ''Moments women consider revelations are those where they discover they are in harmony with a reality based on peace with one's self.''
 Never mind. Despite this new edition's shortcomings, one should be grateful that Beauvoir's epochal work will be drawn to the attention of another generation. ''What a curse to be a woman!'' Beauvoir writes, quoting Kierkegaard. ''And yet the very worst curse when one is a woman is, in fact, not to understand that it is one.'' No one has done more than Beauvoir to explain the conditions of that curse, and no one has more eloquently, irately challenged us to turn that curse into a blessing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES (1947)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WOMEN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); HISTORY (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); WRITERS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); ZOOLOGY (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); FOLKLORE (62%); MYTHOLOGY (60%); RELIGION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); SWITZERLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Second Sex, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



771 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Jamaica's Bloody Democracy

BYLINE: By ORLANDO PATTERSON. 
Orlando Patterson is a professor of sociology at Harvard.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass. 
 THE violence tearing apart Jamaica, a democratic state, raises serious questions not only about its government's capacity to provide basic security but, more broadly and disturbingly, the link between violence and democracy itself. 
 The specific causes of the turmoil are well known. For decades political leaders have used armed local gangs to mobilize voters in their constituencies; the gangs are rewarded with the spoils of power, in particular housing and employment contracts they can dole out. Opposition leaders counter with their own gangs, resulting in chronic violence during election seasons. 
 These gangs eventually moved into international drug trafficking, with their leaders, called ''dons,'' becoming ever more powerful. The tables turned quite some time ago, with the politicians becoming dependent on the dons for their survival. 
 A case in point is the reliance of Prime Minister Bruce Golding on one notorious don, Christopher Coke, whose refusal to surrender for extradition to the United States to stand trial on gun and drug charges led last week to virtual warfare on the streets of the capital, Kingston, and the deaths of scores of civilians. 
 Endemic political corruption is hardly Jamaica's only problem. Add to it paltry rates of economic growth, widespread poverty and income inequality, vast urban slums and a police force considered brutal and despised by the poor, and it is little surprise that the island nation's homicide rate is always among the handful of the world's highest. 
 Yet Jamaica, to its credit, has by global standards achieved a robust democracy. However great the violence during elections, voting is fair and governments change at the national level regularly and fairly smoothly. The judiciary, if overburdened, is nonetheless independent and relatively uncorrupt. There is a vigorous free press, and a lively civil society. Freedom House has continuously categorized the island as a ''free'' country. 
 For most observers of democracy, Jamaica's violence seems an anomaly. Democracy is held to be inherently prone to good order and peace. According to this ''democratic peace'' doctrine, democracies do not go to war with each other, and in domestic life they provide nonviolent means of settling differences. Violence, writes the political theorist John Keane, is anathema to democracy's ''spirit and substance.'' 
 It may or may not be true that democracies do not wage war with each other, but a growing number of analysts have concluded that, domestically, democracies are in fact more prone to violence than authoritarian states, measured by incidence of civil wars, communal conflict and homicide. 
 There are many obvious examples of this: India has far more street crime than China; the countries of the former Soviet Union are more violent now than they were under Communism; the streets of South Africa became more dangerous after apartheid was dismantled; Brazil was safer before 1985 under its military rule.
 Three good explanations are offered for this connection between democracy and violent crime. First, it has been persuasively shown by social scientists like David Rapoport of the University of California at Los Angeles and Leonard Weinberg of the University of Nevada at Reno that the electoral process itself tends, on balance, to promote violence more than peace. 
 Sometimes the ballot can substitute for the bullets of civil wars, as in Nicaragua in 1990 when the Sandinista government was voted out peacefully. However, the opposite is more often the case, as in Greece in 1967, when electoral uncertainty led to a military coup, and Algeria in 1992, when elections were canceled in the face of a certain victory by a fundamentalist Islamic party, leading to civil war. 
 Another well-supported argument is that democracies are especially vulnerable to ethnic conflict and organized crime. In diverse democracies, the temptation of leaders to exploit ethnic identity for political ends is an all too frequent source of major conflict, sometimes culminating in oppression of minorities and even genocide. We saw this happen in Rwanda in 1994 and the former Yugoslav states in the 1990s. Dennis Austin, who has studied political strife in India and Sri Lanka, has concluded that in such societies ''democracy is itself a spur to violence'' adding ''depth to the sense of division.'' 
 Organized crime, especially international trafficking in drugs, has become a serious threat to democracies worldwide. Felia Allun and Renate Siebert, the editors of an important scholarly collection, ''Organized Crime and the Challenge to Democracy,'' argue that ''it is by exploiting the very freedoms which democratic systems offer that organized crime is able to thrive ... although mortifying democratic rights, these kinds of crimes need the democratic space to flourish.'' 
 A third, more nuanced argument is suggested by the work of the Norwegian political scientist Havard Hegre, who has shown that nondemocratic regimes become more prone to civil unrest, and more likely to threaten or start wars with neighboring countries, as they enter the transition period toward becoming democratic. The arc to democratic peace is therefore U-shaped. Authoritarian regimes can tyrannize their citizens into less violence. But as their states become more democratic, the mix of persisting authoritarian traditions and democratic freedoms can be lethal, sometimes resulting in complete state collapse, as in Yugoslavia. 
 It is only when such countries get very close to democratic maturity that social violence rapidly declines. At least that is the conclusion that my Harvard colleague Ethan Fosse and I came to after examining the relationship between homicide rates and Freedom House's democracy rankings. 
 Yet even in these countries on the cusp of democracy there is a complicating factor -- they are usually also going through the transition from a poor economy to a more developed one. The expectations of citizens in these transitional economies often outrun the capacity of society to meet them; people get frustrated and feel unfairly treated, leading to high risks of violence.
 The worst possible situation for a state, however, is for its economic transition to stall or fail before the transition to mature democracy is complete. And this is what Jamaica now faces. For the first dozen years after independence from Britain in 1962, progress toward democracy and self-sustained economic growth moved nicely in tandem. But then the oil crisis and recession of 1973, and the efforts by the democratic socialist government of Prime Minister Michael Manley to deal with hard times, knocked the wind from the sails of economic progress, and Jamaica has never really recovered. (Disclosure: I was an adviser to Prime Minister Manley at that time.) 
 To see what happens when a country accomplishes both transitions, we need only look at the neighboring Afro-Caribbean island of Barbados. It has a similar colonial past, and became independent just three years after Jamaica. Yet Barbados' per capita income is now more than twice that of Jamaica, its standard of living puts it among the developed world and Freedom House places it on a par with Western Europe in terms of the maturity of its democracy. Sure enough, Barbados also has one of the lowest homicide rates in the hemisphere.
 Barbados, unfortunately, is not typical. Jamaica, though an extreme case, is more in line with other democracies of the hemisphere, including Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, Mexico and even Brazil, where the treacherous joint transition to democratic maturity and economic security has been accompanied by horrendous levels of crime. 
 As the American government decides how to respond to the crisis in Jamaica, a product of the (proper) insistence on the extradition of Christopher Coke, it would do well to view developments there in these broader terms. The problem of Jamaica might not seem so insoluble if Americans were to have a more sympathetic understanding of the transitional plight of this little country, brought on in large part by its unwavering struggle toward a more mature and equitable democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); EXTRADITION (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); CORRUPTION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (66%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (65%); POLICE FORCES (51%)

PERSON: BRUCE GOLDING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



772 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Handmade Hoops Put the Clang Into New York Courts

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
The old steel rim that presides over this public basketball court absorbs missed shots with an angry clank, sending the ball careening upward and the wood and metal backboard into a rickety seizure. 
 Like generations before them, the young men who play at the ramshackle court in St. Nicholas Park in Harlem know the rim is so troublesome that they tend to avoid perimeter jump shots in favor of aggressive drives to the basket, where perhaps its vagaries will be less pronounced.
 ''These are ghetto rims,'' said Quaeshawn Berry, a lanky 14-year-old who is a regular at the park. ''But I prefer these. I've been playing on these my whole life.''
 These unforgiving, practically unbreakable orange rims -- built so simply that there are no hooks to accommodate a net -- are longstanding fixtures of the public basketball courts throughout New York City, where they play a minor, if usually overlooked, role in countless pick-up games. 
 But largely unknown to even the most devoted practitioners of the city game is that most of the basketball rims on these courts have been individually crafted by a team of blacksmiths who cut, weld and paint each by hand.
 Using a century-old method that has long since vanished elsewhere, the half-dozen parks department employees -- all basketball players themselves -- have forged thousands of rims, each one worked into a microcosm of the local game. 
 ''There are minor differences,'' said John Fitzgerald, the longtime city blacksmith in charge of making the rims. ''It's like no snowflakes are exactly the same.''
 Working from a hand-drawn blueprint, the blacksmiths use hammers and the horn of an anvil to shape the steel ring that serves as the hoop, welding it to several slabs of metal that form a support bolted to the backboard. The finished product is a remnant of an earlier era of the sport, somewhere on the evolutionary chain between the original wooden peach baskets and the modern spring-loaded breakaway rims used by the National Basketball Association.
 Other cities, including those with their own share of contributions to basketball lore like Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Newark, buy modern, factory-made rims. New York is among the few places, and possibly the only one, where municipal rims used at more than 700 public parks are still made by hand. 
 ''I'm totally amazed that they still do it that way,'' said Dan Shaw, an engineer and sales manager for Spalding and an expert on the history of basketball rims. ''I would love to see one made. 
 ''Walking in there would be like watching equipment made 100 years ago when there were no basketball manufacturers, when all the equipment was being made locally.''
 There remains something of a cult of personality around the showy offshoot of basketball known as streetball, a pastime marked by elbows-out play, a casual commitment to the rulebook and makeshift facilities. That is particularly true in New York, where the public courts are credited with grooming generations of stars. 
 And while it is unclear what, if any, supporting role these immutable rims might have played, Jason Curry, president of Big Apple Basketball, which runs clinics and tournaments around the city, suggested that they might be one reason many of the best players who honed their games outside have historically been skilled at driving close to the hoop rather than shooting from distance. 
 ''There are so many different variables that it makes it difficult to become a really good outside shooter on New York City playgrounds,'' he said.
 A streetball legend, Joe Hammond, who is better known by his nickname the Destroyer, said the New York rims were so tricky that he became focused on having his shots avoid them altogether, refusing to count points if the ball touched steel. ''One thing about playing on the rims in the parks: you learn to adjust,'' Mr. Hammond said. 
 But even in New York, the forging of rims may be an endangered art. Some of the city's most celebrated courts, like Rucker Park in Harlem and the West Fourth Street Cage in the West Village, have made the switch to prefabricated rims, in part because the players there expect modern equipment. And when a new park is built or an existing one receives a full rehabilitation, a prefabricated rim is installed.
 The prefabricated rims are not only more up to date, but they are also less expensive -- typically costing other cities less than $60, compared with about $90 for the handmade rims, which includes about $65 for labor. 
 But officials from the city's Department of Parks and Recreation say the handmade rims stand up better to the demands of New York players, so they will continue to be produced -- at least to replace those that have been stolen or, in rare cases, damaged. (The rest of the time blacksmiths occupy themselves with an assortment of other tasks, like repairing park fences and building lifeguard chairs.)
 ''We have found its more economical to make them because they're stronger, they last longer,'' said Jim Cafaro, the deputy chief of technical services for the parks department. ''So it's cost-effective to do this.''
 The design, which parks officials said was of unknown provenance, has been kept in a dusty composition notebook in the center of the cavernous workshop on Randalls Island underneath the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge, where 92 rims were made last year. The blacksmiths are in the process of vacating the 80-year-old building, so production of the rims has been temporarily suspended. 
 The machinery and tools, including the old anvil, will be moved to a new location. Left behind will be the old hoop that hangs over an oil-stained section of the shop, used for years of lunchtime games. ''You have to have a nice touch for them because they're solid,'' said Eugene Desplantes, a metal worker who starred in those daily battles. ''They're not forgiving.''
 Even if fewer of these rims are being made, those already in the parks are not going anywhere soon.
 Those made with a slightly different design, which features a double rim and straight steel supports, were discontinued years ago but remain a common sight in schoolyards, public parks and small lots around the city. 
 They have survived endless rounds of slam dunks, and occasionally served as chin-up bars and, for the especially nimble, even as spectator seating. Once, the blacksmiths strung a cable around a rim inside the workshop, which they used to tow a van halfway off the ground. That led them to conclude that their handiwork was, with all due humility, indestructible.
 ''These are the strongest hoops you'll ever find,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said. ''They last forever. You could hand them down to your grandkids.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article contained a picture caption that misspelled the last name of the blacksmith who makes rims for the Parks Department. He is John Fitzgerald, not Fitgerald.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A court at Bellevue South Park on Manhattan's East Side. Steel basketball rims are used at more than 700 public parks in the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 John Fitzgerald, a blacksmith for the New York parks department, with a finished rim. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



773 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Two Sides of Europe's Crisis

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE debt crisis in Europe has already had a significant psychological impact on Wall Street, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 10.5 percent from its April high. 
 But if investors are afraid that Europe's woes could retard the recovery in the United States, a question arises: What does the crisis in Europe really mean for domestic growth?
The answer depends on which aspect of the crisis you're looking at. The possibility of another shock to global financial institutions is certainly cause for concern, as we shall see. But if investors focus solely on the fundamental health of Europe's economy, and its ties to the United States, the situation may not look all that worrisome. 
 To be sure, Europe is a major customer for the goods of American manufacturers. In fact, the 16 countries that use the euro represent around 13 percent of total United States exports. But the nations that are hit hardest by this crisis account for only a small fraction of that. 
 The major southern countries of Europe, including Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, together account for less than 1.5 percent of total United States exports. And Greece and Portugal, where budget problems are most pressing, represent only two-tenths of 1 percent of the total, according to Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer.
 Some strategists, meanwhile, say Europe's problems could actually aid the consumer recovery in the United States, not slow it. 
 ''The problems in Europe are good for consumers by putting more cash in their pockets,'' says Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. For example, the crisis has already helped push oil prices lower globally, which in turn has reduced the price of gasoline for American drivers. 
 It has also prompted another flight to safety on Wall Street. And as investors have raced into Treasury bonds, interest rates on long-term Treasuries have fallen, sending mortgage rates tumbling. Mr. Kleintop says that this could lead to a new wave of refinancing, which could promote more consumer spending.
 This means that once the initial fears wear off, and investors start focusing on the fundamentals, domestic stocks are likely to be a relatively attractive place to put money to work. Mr. Kleintop says he thinks the recent correction in the market is only a pullback and not the start of a bear market.
 But what if the health of Europe's economy continues to deteriorate? 
 Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight, recently analyzed that possibility. He asked: What if the economy in the euro zone expands by just 1 percent next year, not the 1.4 percent that he currently forecasts? And assume that the euro keeps falling until it's at parity with the dollar, down from the current $1.23. How would the American economy be affected?
 Mr. Gault believes that such a situation would chip away at economic growth in the United States -- by three-tenths of a percent in 2011 and another three-tenths of a percent in 2012. 
 ''That's the difference between growing at around a 2.9-to-3-percent pace to 2.6 to 2.7 percent,'' he said. ''That's enough to be noticeable, and it could be painful, but that's clearly not, in and of itself, going to pull the U.S. back into recession.''
 For a so-called double-dip recession to occur, market watchers say, there would probably need to be another shock to the economy. 
 And that raises another significant concern. Aside from the economic fundamentals, many analysts worry that Europe's credit issues could set off another liquidity crisis in the global financial markets, similar to what transpired in the wake of Lehman Brothers' collapse in 2008. 
 Right now, the numbers seem to say that this isn't likely.
 One way to tell is by looking at the so-called TED spread, the difference between the rates that banks charge one another for short-term loans and low-risk Treasury debt. The measure is considered a gauge of fear in the banking system.
 In the midst of the global credit freeze in 2008, the spread jumped to a whopping 4.63 percentage points. This time around, it stands at 0.38 points, which is above its long-term average and double where it stood at the beginning of May. But it is still nowhere near its level in the financial panic two years ago.
 Still, ''the rise in the TED spread would suggest there is anxiety building in the financial system,'' said Michele Gambera, head of quantitative analysis at UBS Global Asset Management in Chicago. 
 MR. GAULT says a liquidity crisis ''is less of a concern than it was during the Lehman Brothers episode,'' in part because he believes that the United States banking system is in far better shape than it was then. And central banks have already had the experience of dealing with the Lehman fallout and are determined to forestall another crisis of such magnitude.
 But he acknowledges that there is still some risk of deeper problems. ''If we learned one thing from that experience,'' he said, ''it's that linkages between various financial markets are pretty tight.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From one financial angle, troubles in Greece and elsewhere in Europe may have little effect on America's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALKIS KONSTANTINIDIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); EURO ZONE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EURO (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); GREECE (88%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010



774 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: The Two Sides Intersect In Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Ana Facio Contreras contributed from Phoenix.

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Two sides of the immigration debate converged here Saturday: a throng of several thousand marching for five miles opposed to Arizona's new immigration law, and several thousand nearly filling a nearby stadium in the evening in support of it.
 Organizers said the timing was coincidental, with both sides taking advantage of a holiday weekend to bring out the masses. But the gatherings encapsulated in a single day the passions surrounding the national immigration debate, recharged by the new law, which will expand the state's role in immigration enforcement. 
 Both demonstrations made a point of waving a large number of American flags and issuing pleas for a national overhaul of immigration law, but they offered a jarring study in how polarized the debate has become here.
 The demonstrators against the law were mostly Latino, with young people and families making up a large share. They played drums, whistled and chanted and gave speeches in Spanish and English denouncing the perceived racism behind the law. Many carried posters or wore T-shirts with the message: ''Do I look illegal?''
 At the rally in favor of the law, which began with the pledge of allegiance and the national anthem, any mention of Mexico or supporters of the law brought lusty boos -- a video clip of President Felipe Calderon of Mexico especially fired up the crowd, which was mostly white and middle-aged or older. Placards like ''Illegals out of the U.S.A.'' were typical, though speaker after speaker ridiculed the idea that the crowd was racist.
 Far more attended the earlier rally opposed to the law, which included a five-mile march to the Capitol in withering heat. It was one of the largest since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law April 23.
 Some were citizens, like Armando Diaz, 33, a mechanic born and raised here who believes the law has helped spread anti-Latino fervor in the state.
 ''This is not what Arizona is about, hate,'' Mr. Diaz said as he neared the capitol, where people fled for what little shade they could find. ''But that is what this law is about.''
 The later rally, at sundown, was organized by Tea Party groups from St. Louis and Dallas who said they decided to take the lead and support the state against a wave of boycotts protesting the law, some by cities like San Francisco and Seattle.
 ''We are doing this to crush any boycott against the free market,'' said Tina Loudon, a Tea Party member from St. Louis who helped organize the rally. ''Arizona has a sovereign right to enforce immigration laws on the books.''
 The law -- barring any successful legal challenges -- will take effect July 29. It would allow the police to check the immigration status of people they suspect are illegal immigrants when they have been stopped for another reason. It also makes it a state crime, not just a federal one, to not carry immigration papers.
 Advocates see it as a tool for law enforcement to weed out illegal immigrants, while five lawsuits filed against it call it an infringement on federal authority and suggest that Latino citizens and legal residents will be swept up for questioning.
 On another front, the governor and attorney general are disputing who will defend the state against the legal challenges and possible litigation by the United States Justice Department.
 Ms. Brewer, a Republican, said Friday she had removed the state's attorney general, a Democrat and vocal opponent of the law, from defending it, accusing him of colluding with the Justice Department as it nears a decision on whether to challenge the law in court.
 But the matter remained in dispute on Saturday, as the attorney general, Terry Goddard, a Democrat and potential challenger in her re-election bid, said in an e-mail message that he was ''definitely defending the state'' in legal challenges to the law.
 Ms. Brewer said she took action after Mr. Goddard met Friday with Justice Department lawyers, who then met with her legal advisers.
 Justice Department officials said they routinely meet with a state's attorney general and governor when considering legal action against their state.
 ''We continue to have concerns that the law drives a wedge between law enforcement and the communities they serve, and are examining it to see what options are available to the federal government,'' said Tracy Schmaler, a department spokeswoman.
 The United States attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., has said he worries that the law may intrude on federal authority and lead to racial profiling.
 Protest rallies were also held Saturday at the state capitols in Texas and Oregon, as well as in San Francisco, according to The Associated Press.
 At the Arizona demonstrations, opinions could not be further apart.
 Mireya Chavez Cerna, 43, an illegal immigrant who works as a maid, marched with her 9-year-old son, who was born in the United States and wore a shirt reading ''Made in America.''
 She denounced the climate of fear in the state and said immigrants like her could not abide the wait of a decade or more for a legal visa while their families grow hungry.
 ''Do you think we would risk losing our lives crossing the border if we didn't have a need to come here for a better life?'' she said. Supporters of the law ''don't know,'' she added. ''They don't understand. They don't live in Mexico. They don't know how it is.''
 But Ann Hyde, a radiological technologist from Chandler, said she grew frustrated at supporters being tarred as prejudiced or worse.
 ''We are not racists,'' she said. ''This law is about respecting the laws of the nation and the economic impact of illegal immigration, which is enormous. My state is broke and they cost us with spending on schools, hospitals and other services.''
 Though violent crime is declining in Arizona, as in most other states, and illegal immigration is down at the border, speakers played up crimes that illegal immigrants have been charged with over the years, including shooting of police officers.
 ''One is too many,'' said Mark Spencer, the chairman of a union representing rank-and-file police officers in Phoenix.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of people marched to protest the immigration law in Phoenix on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); BOYCOTTS (71%); RACE & RACISM (67%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (57%); FELIPE CALDERON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



775 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Home In Brooklyn, On the G.I. Bill

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
THOUGH Willie Holmes had been traveling back and forth to New York for a few years, primarily for modeling jobs, he had little knowledge of the city's housing market -- just vague impressions from his New York friends, most of whom lived in Harlem.
 After six years in the Army, he was ready to relocate to New York, in order to further his modeling career and attend graduate school.
 His friends encouraged him to hunt for a place in Harlem, with its relatively low rents, but Mr. Holmes nixed that idea. Harlem was badly situated for him, since he would be attending school way out in Brooklyn. ''I would prefer to be comfortable than to live in a place to save money,'' he said.
 Mr. Holmes, 25, who has five older sisters, spent some of his teenage years living in subsidized housing with his mother and three of her grandchildren. ''We lived in an apartment without air-conditioning, so it was always hot,'' he said. ''It was in the worst part of town.'' 
 After high school, he joined the Army, ''to elevate my standard of living,'' he said. While serving, he received a degree in health-care management. ''I wanted to help and not to kill,'' he said.
 Most recently, living in a basement apartment in Maryland, he ''saved up everything and cut frivolous spending'' to make sure that he could afford the move, he said. He worked as a personal trainer as well as a physical therapy technician, helping amputees.
 In March, Mr. Holmes arrived for an eight-day apartment hunt, staying with a friend in the Bronx. The G.I. Bill, which provides educational benefits for veterans, includes a housing allowance based on factors like the college's ZIP code and the veteran's length of service. Mr. Holmes, who is pursuing a graduate degree in health service administration at a program given at Fort Hamilton Army Base in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, receives $2,751 a month for housing. If a veteran's housing expenses are less than the allowance, the student still receives the full amount, according to Jo Schuda, a spokeswoman for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The allowance is granted for the length of time the veteran is enrolled, or up to 36 months.
 Mr. Holmes intended to spend somewhere in the low $2,000s on a rental. He wanted a place convenient to Manhattan, for his modeling work, and to the R train, for class in Brooklyn.
 He hoped for a one-bedroom in an elevator building with a doorman and a gym. ''I didn't want to feel like I felt when I was living in government housing,'' he said. ''I planned for a long time not to have to go back to that.''
 Beyond that, he didn't want to live on a high floor. ''If anything goes wrong, I want to be able to take the stairs,'' he said. And the bedroom needed to be large enough for a queen-size bed. ''I am 6-2, so I didn't want to have to sleep in a small bed. I did enough of that in the Army. We slept in twin-size bunk beds with wool blankets.''
 The first real estate agent he contacted showed him tiny tenement-style places in the East Village for around $2,500 a month.
 He insisted that the agent steer clear of unsuitable apartments. ''I had to get stern,'' he said. ''He told me this is New York living and you have to get used to it. He rattled my nerves a little bit.''
 Another agent showed him some nicer places in Brooklyn, including a Brooklyn Heights one-bedroom for a little less than $2,000 a month. But the management company told him not to bother applying because his finances would keep him from being approved.
 The pattern was typical. Mr. Holmes kept hearing that he needed a job that earned him 40 or more times the monthly rent. ''I was denied so many times,'' he said. ''My credit score is great -- I never even paid a bill late -- but none of that seemed to matter.''
 Other buildings required six months of prepaid rent.
 He developed a beef with real estate agents. ''I didn't feel they were telling my story the right way,'' he said. ''They made it seem as if I was on some government program that could be cut at any point, as if I was on welfare or unemployment.''
 Then Mr. Holmes met Patrick Skeeters of Citi Habitats, who had the listing for an $1,800 Murray Hill studio. ''I thought it was in a centrally located area,'' Mr. Holmes said. For some, maybe, but not for him. Mr. Skeeters suggested the financial district and showed Mr. Holmes some buildings there.
 He especially liked 90W at 90 Washington Street, but he couldn't afford the one-bedrooms, and he felt that the studios were cramped.
 ''Willie was frustrated,'' Mr. Skeeters said. ''I said, 'Tell me exactly what's going on here.' '' And when Mr. Holmes did, Mr. Skeeters said, ''It is going to be a challenge.'' He had never before worked with a renter on the G.I. Bill.
 Mr. Holmes returned to Maryland empty-handed, but also with an assurance from Mr. Skeeters that he would get an apartment. 
 To circumvent the income requirement, Mr. Skeeters suggested Mr. Holmes check out Insurent, a service that guarantees leases so that reluctant landlords will rent to people who do not meet their financial standards. The company will provide a lease guarantee to anybody who has good credit, said Jeffrey L. Geller, Insurent's chief operating officer.
 Mr. Holmes fell into the category of people who don't work but still have cash coming in, Mr. Geller said. He also had savings and a good credit score.
 The Brooklyner, a new high-rise rental on Lawrence Street in Downtown Brooklyn, was on the list of buildings that use Insurent's services. Mr. Holmes checked it out online, and he especially liked the fact that the gym didn't cost extra. Mr. Skeeters, whose turf is generally Manhattan, went to see it personally.
 Typically at the Brooklyner, the income requirement is 36 times the monthly rent, and a renter must have good credit, said Ingrid Di Lisio, the leasing agent.
 Mr. Holmes paid the Insurent fee, which is 75 to 80 percent of a month's rent, and rented a sunny one-bedroom, not on a high floor. His rent is $2,290, but he received two months free on a 13-month lease, reducing the cost per month to $1,938. (The building paid Mr. Skeeters's fee.)
 The rent concession at the Brooklyner has since shrunk, and is now one month free on a 12-month lease or two months free on a 24-month lease, Ms. Di Lisio said. The high-rise, with nearly 500 units, is about one-third rented.
 Mr. Holmes found moving day a hassle. He and a friend, in a rented U-Haul, followed its global positioning system, but the suggested route was blocked. They spent so much time driving around that Mr. Holmes was late for his lease-signing. But he was grateful that the building was all set up with dollies and moving equipment.
 He gets a kick out of the building's hotel-like feel. ''They have coffee in the morning,'' he said. ''I don't drink coffee, but it is still cool to have it.'' As for the doormen, ''I have no idea how they remember who lives here,'' he said. ''They all know my name.'' Sometimes friends join him for workouts in the gym.
 He doesn't plan to bring his car to New York until the building's garage opens, probably by early fall. ''I am told something about the sweeping of the streets,'' he said, ''and I don't know a whole lot about that.''
 E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TO ORDER: Willie Holmes got what he was looking for -- finally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
An unusual source of financing precluded a Brooklyn Heights one-bedroom.
90W in Manhattan was nice, but the studios seemed small.
The Brooklyner, a new high-rise with a gym and a doorman, fit the bill.
Willie Holmes in his one-bedroom, convenient to class and modeling gigs. (PHOTOGRAPHS TOP ROW, LEFT AND RIGHT, MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOTTOM ROW, LEFT AND RIGHT, CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); VETERANS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); HEALTH CARE (65%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



776 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Mean Boys

BYLINE: By TOM De HAVEN. 
Tom De Haven is the author, most recently, of ''Our Hero: Superman on Earth'' and a co-editor of ''Richmond Noir.''

 BODY:
ELLIOT ALLAGASH
 By Simon Rich
 227 pp. Random House. $23
 If I were in the eighth grade, I'm pretty sure I'd love Simon Rich's first novel, ''Elliot Allagash.'' I might even press it on my friends. (''It's about this 13-year-old evil genius who does whatever he wants because he's, like, a billionaire. And it's funny. And short.'') But since more than 45 years have passed since I took up space in a middle school, I simply like it, very much -- while wishing this flippant little parable about the puerility of greed had a deeper, sharper bite. Rich is a writer for ''Saturday Night Live,'' and his fondness for the broadest kind of sketch comedy is evident on almost every page. 
 The narrator, Seymour Herson, is an adolescent isolate at Glendale Academy, a second-tier private school in Manhattan. Nicknamed ''Chunk-Style,'' he can't run, can't swim, can't dribble a basketball. He's a clumsy, self-conscious video gamer whose parents -- his father is an assistant professor of economics at Fordham, his mother a speech therapist -- spend a large percentage of their income on his tuition while ''secretly terrified'' their investment is money wasted.
 With the arrival of Elliot Allagash at Glendale, Seymour acquires both a friend and a tempter. Previously expelled from a dozen better schools and able to quote Iago's soliloquies verbatim, Elliot is a scion of America's largest fortune. (An ancestor invented paper.) We've met his kind before (eats watercress sandwiches, quaffs martinis, hangs out in his billiards room, berates the servants), and while Rich consistently makes Elliot comic in his sheer awfulness, he never connects Elliot's monstrous feelings of entitlement to our current money-trumps-everything cultural moment. Elliot Allagash remains a junior robber baron, like some dissolute visitor from the late 19th century, a Kid Rockefeller rather than, say, L'il Enron -- too bad!
 As in ''Cinderella'' or ''Pygmalion,'' Elliot is determined to transform Seymour into the most popular boy at school. ''Remember,'' he says, ''I'm not doing this out of kindness or generosity. I'm doing this purely for sport. It's an intellectual exercise -- a way to occupy my days during this hellish period of my life.'' With scarcely a pang of conscience (it's hard to tell whether Rich, who is a son of the New York Times Op-Ed columnist Frank Rich, means this to be satire or just assumed behavior) Seymour abets his mentor in boosting exams, ruining reputations, rigging a student government election. Corruption complete, he basks in his preposterous new celebrity.
 The story jumps ahead four years. Thanks to unearned high grades, a padded resume and an unctuous ghostwritten application essay, Seymour is admitted to Harvard. Dishonesty rocks! At least it does until our compromised hero is smitten by Glendale's nerdiest senior, Ashley, a girl whom Elliot's -- and Seymour's -- machinations once landed in a mental hospital. As Seymour grows closer to Ashley (so generously forgiving), he drifts away from Elliot's absolute dominance. Whereupon Elliot exposes his former protege's gross deceptions for all the world to see.
 It makes for an enjoyable little dose of poisonous cynicism. But then Rich flinches, tacking on a gloppy family-hug of a coda and minimizing consequences. Seymour matures, and darn quickly, into a Nice Young Man With a Girlfriend He Does Fun Things With, while Elliot, being Elliot, recruits another schlub for a make-over. It's as if Rich grew so beguiled by his own characters he couldn't stand to punish them. Or maybe he was just thinking of his potential younger readers, who might well consider any severe comeuppance not very nice at all, even mean. Or, considering what eighth and ninth graders have seen of the world in their short lifetimes, possibly the author felt they might reject it as unrealistic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA EDELSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); WRITERS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); TUITION FEES (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); BASKETBALL (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: FRANK RICH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Elliot Allagash (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



777 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Leaving the Nest, Proteges Find Fame

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
IN the video, on YouTube, Madonna is seen laying the first brick at a school in Lilongwe, Malawi. But to connoisseurs of architecture, the real star of the video is the man standing next to Madonna, alongside a rendering of the 40-acre campus. He is Markus Dochantschi, the German-born, New York-based designer of what is called the Raising Malawi Academy for Girls.
 For a young architect it's hard to imagine a higher-profile project than a school backed by Madonna. And if the attention mostly goes to the pop star, Mr. Dochantschi isn't complaining. He spent seven years working for the architect Zaha Hadid, a larger-than-life figure, learning how to stand outside the spotlight.
 Mr. Dochantschi, who is 42, left Ms. Hadid's practice in 2002, making him one of a small group of foreign-born architects who have broken away from Pritzker Prize-winning mentors to work on their own in the United States. The ranks include Kulapat Yantrasast, 41, who was born in Thailand, worked for seven years for the Japanese master Tadao Ando and then moved to Los Angeles in 2003. He has already designed one American museum from the ground up and has several other museum buildings in the works. 
 And there is Florian Idenburg, 34, a Dutch-born architect who spent eight years working for Sanaa, the partnership of Kayuzo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa, designers of the New Museum building on the Bowery. This spring Sanaa was awarded the Pritzker Prize, the profession's highest honor. Just weeks before, in what seems like a generational passing of the torch, Mr. Idenburg and his wife, Jing Liu, who live and work in Brooklyn, won the Young Architects' competition sponsored by the Museum of Modern Art and its Queens affiliate, P.S. 1. Their creation -- a jaunty installation called Pole Dance -- will open at P.S. 1 on June 27.
 (One thing all three architects have in common, besides moving thousands of miles from home to set up shop in the United States, is that those shops have somewhat cryptic names: Mr. Dochantschi's is Studio MDA; Mr. Yantrasast's, in which he has two partners, is wHY Architecture, and Mr. Idenburg's is SO-IL Solid Objectives Idenburg Liu.)
 The rise of the young architects is good news for the industry, which is in a deep recession -- so deep that even star architects aren't in a position to give work to their former employees. The proteges accept that. Asked about Mr. Ando, Mr. Yantrasast said, like a loyal son, ''No one ever handed him anything, and he wants me to learn the same lesson.''
 The dance of young architect and mentor is a tricky one, and may involve hurt feelings on one or both sides. When he decided to leave Sanaa, at the end of 2007, Mr. Idenburg published an article in the architecture journal A+U in which he described himself as setting strategy for the office's modus operandi outside of Japan, a claim that, reportedly, left the firm's partners miffed; through a spokesman, Ms. Sejima and Mr. Nishizawa declined to speak about Mr. Idenburg. 
 ''I was a handful for them,'' Mr. Idenburg said. ''I was outside of the Japanese hierarchical system. That was something they had not experienced before.''
 Mr. Yantrasast also apprenticed in Japan. He moved from Thailand to Tokyo to pursue a Ph.D. in architecture. But after hearing Mr. Ando lecture, he followed him to Osaka, in 1996, where he worked on Mr. Ando's competition entry for the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth. When Mr. Ando won the competition, he asked Mr. Yantrasast to stick around, and soon he was something of a surrogate son to the childless Mr. Ando and his wife, Yumiko. Mr. Yantrasast left the firm to move to Los Angeles in 2003; he speaks flawless English and is building himself a house with a pool in the Venice neighborhood. When the trustees of the Grand Rapids Art Museum in Michigan were looking for an architect for their new building, they wanted someone up and coming -- and chose not Mr. Ando but his protege.
 The Grand Rapids building not only contained a number of green features but was a stunning piece of architecture reminiscent of Mr. Ando's best work. Mr. Yantrasast, however, sees it as more open than Mr. Ando's buildings. ''The Japanese sensibility,'' he said, ''is about tension, control and discipline. Thai people love the openness of things.'' He said he had unconsciously incorporated that openness into his architecture.
 His wHY Architecture now has museum commissions in Tyler, Tex., and Louisville, Ky., and is renovating several galleries at the Art Institute of Chicago, which is known for its exacting standards. Mr. Yantrasast attributes his success, with a modesty that may reflect the years he spent in Japan, to luck. Meanwhile he still acts as the eyes and ears for Mr. Ando in the United States and says he hopes to help his mentor land a job in a major American city. ''Frank Lloyd Wright without the Guggenheim would not be the Frank Lloyd Wright we know,'' he said, explaining his desire to find a career-capping commission for Mr. Ando.
 Mr. Dochantschi too has had his share of luck. After studying in Germany, he made several trips to Japan -- he worked for both Arata Isozaki and Fumihiko Maki -- but in 1995 went to work for Ms. Hadid. He described her as a ''very demanding but very trusting'' boss. Back then, she had fewer than a dozen employees, he said, and even fewer built projects.
 But in 1997 she won the commission to design the Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art, in Cincinnati, and with it a chance to prove herself in this country. 
 Mr. Dochantschi was named project architect, an assignment that soon had him spending most of his time in New York. Eventually he married an American, and when the museum was completed, he decided to stay in Manhattan.
 Suddenly he was working out of his apartment and doing projects as small as a kitchen addition in Maplewood, N.J. ''I went from master-planning thousands of acres to trying to figure out what kinds of door hinges to buy,'' he said. 
 In 2008 an intern in Mr. Dochantschi's office met the director of the Raising Malawi Academy and recommended that Mr. Dochantschi design it. He was hired by Philippe van den Bossche, who handles Madonna's philanthropy, and agreed to donate his time. The campus he designed, on a 40-acre site, consists of a series of origami-roofed buildings made out of mud. (He chose not to use brick because the need to fire brick is leading to rapid deforestation in Malawi.) 
 Far from being merely a designer, he studied the culture and economy of Malawi to try to make the school not only environmentally, but also educationally, sustainable. He is using some of the same ideas for a school under construction in Congo, also a pro-bono project. 
 But he also has to pay the bills, which is why a commission in Aachen, Germany, came along just at the right time, he said. There he has designed a $50 million laboratory and classroom building for the University of Applied Science Aachen, which is expected to break ground at the end of this year. It doesn't look like Ms. Hadid's work. Mr. Dochantschi isn't emulating her style, but more her approach to the profession, which, he said, involves patience and the realization that even a losing competition entry is a way to advance ideas. ''This isn't the art world,'' he said. ''You can't expect to be an overnight success.''
 Asked what he learned from his mentors, Mr. Idenburg too described an approach to work, rather than a style. In the Netherlands, where he grew up and was educated, the prevailing method, under the influence of Rem Koolhaas, was ''you diagram a building, and then you build the diagram,'' he said. ''In Japan they diagram, but it's a starting point for something more subtle.''
 Mr. Idenburg said he found the Dutch architecture world ''self-congratulatory'' and ''based on pseudoscience.'' After Ms. Sejima taught at his school in Delft, he went to work for her and Mr. Nishizawa in Tokyo, helped by a Dutch government program that paid most of his salary. When that stipend ran out, he took a pay cut, he said, to work for the firm full time. But when Sanaa won the commission to design the Toledo Museum of Art's Glass Pavilion, he began spending much of his time in the United States. Then came the New Museum, Sanaa's first project in New York, where Mr. Idenburg and Ms. Liu settled. (They now have two children.) 
 In addition to the MoMA project -- a low-budget affair on which they will be lucky to break even -- Mr. Idenburg and Ms. Liu are designing a gallery in Seoul, South Korea, which will be covered in a stainless-steel mesh that they are having made in China. (Like Mr. Yantrasast and Mr. Dochantschi, he also earns money by teaching.)
 Mr. Idenburg agreed that ''architecture is a profession of patience,'' adding, ''For the first 10 years you just hope to survive.'' Mr. Dochantschi said it's hard for young architects to break away from established firms because their low salaries don't let them accumulate start-up capital. Then too, ''you have to wait until you have enough experience,'' he said. ''But if you wait too long, you'll have a family to support.'' 
 He added: ''So you have to find just the right moment to jump.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Markus Dochantschi, above, worked for the architect Zaha Hadid. Now on his own, he designed the Raising Malawi Academy for Girls (rendering, right), a school backed by Madonna in Lilongwe, Malawi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STUDIOMDA)
The Grand Rapids Art Museum, left, and its designer, Kulapat Yantrasast, who worked for Tadao Ando in Japan. His firm has museum commissions in Tyler, Tex., and Louisville, Ky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HALL/HEDRICH BLESSING
ROBERT YAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Florian Idenburg, far right, worked for Kayuzo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa's Sanaa. He and his wife, Jing Liu, won a Museum of Modern Art and P.S. 1 Young Architects' competition with Pole Dance (rendering, above), that will be at P.S. 1. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SO-IL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (71%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



778 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Malia For President

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It took almost the entire press conference at the White House on Thursday for President Obama to find his voice in responding to the oil disaster in the gulf -- and it is probably no accident that it seemed like the only unrehearsed moment. The president was trying to convey why he takes this problem so seriously, when he noted: 
 ''When I woke this morning and I'm shaving and Malia knocks on my bathroom door and she peeks in her head and she says, 'Did you plug the hole yet, Daddy?' Because I think everybody understands that when we are fouling the Earth like this, it has concrete implications -- not just for this generation, but for future generations. I grew up in Hawaii where the ocean is sacred. And when you see birds flying around with oil all over their feathers and turtles dying, that doesn't just speak to the immediate economic consequences of this; this speaks to how are we caring for this incredible bounty that we have. And so sometimes when I hear folks down in Louisiana expressing frustrations, I may not always think that their comments are fair. On the other hand, I probably think to myself, 'These are folks who grew up fishing in these wetlands and seeing this as an integral part of who they are.' And to see that messed up in this fashion would be infuriating.''
 And a child shall lead them. ...
 This oil leak is not President Obama's fault. Stopping the spill is BP's responsibility; it both caused it and it has the best access to the best technology to plug it. Of course, as the nation's C.E.O., Mr. Obama has to oversee the cleanup, and he has been on top of that. His most important job, though, is one he has yet to take on: shaping the long-term public reaction to the spill so that we can use it to generate the political will to break our addiction to oil. In that job, the most important thing Mr. Obama can do is react to this spill as a child would -- because it is precisely that simple gut reaction, repeated over and over, speech after speech, that could change our national conversation on energy.
 You see, right now our energy conversation is dominated by three voices. There are the ''petro-determinists,'' who never tire of telling us that we'll be dependent on oil for a ''long, long time.'' That is true. The problem is, these same people have been telling us that ever since the first oil crisis in 1973, and their real objective in doing so is not to help us understand that breaking our oil addiction is difficult, but to make us think that it is impossible -- so don't bother.
 Then there are the ''eco-pessimists,'' who argue that it is probably already too late. We are toast. Unless we rewire human beings to want less growth -- not only ourselves but the millions in China and India who aspire to live like us -- the end is nigh. The eco-pessimists may be right, and they are certainly sincere, but they have little respect for the power of innovation, the power of six billion minds all trying to solve one problem.
 Finally, we have the ''Obama realists.'' These are the political pros who whisper to him every day that this is not the time to lay out a big new ''Obama End to Oil Addiction Act.'' The Democrats, they contend, are suffering from ''legislative fatigue.'' After casting a hard vote for health care, they don't want to be asked to cast a supposedly hard vote for a price on carbon -- the essential first step in getting off oil. And, they rightly add, the G.O.P. today is so cynical, so bought and paid for by Big Oil, that only a couple of Republican senators would have the courage and vision to vote for a price on carbon. So Democrats would be out there alone.
 The Obama realists make sure that the president is always careful to talk in vague terms about how he stands behind ''Waxman-Markey'' and ''Kerry-Lieberman'' -- sterile Washington-speak for the House and Senate bills that attempt to put a small price on carbon. I am glad he is behind them; I just wish he were in front of them. I am glad the president passed health care for the nation. But healthy to do what? To go where? To grasp what dream? 
 Answering those questions is the president's great opportunity here, but he has to think like a kid. Kids get it. They ask: Why would we want to stay dependent on an energy source that could destroy so many birds, fish, beaches and ecosystems before the next generation has a chance to enjoy them? Why aren't we doing more to create clean power and energy efficiency when so many others, even China, are doing so? And, Daddy, why can't you even mention the words ''carbon tax,'' when the carbon we spill into the atmosphere every day is just as dangerous to our future as the crude oil that has been spilling into the gulf? 
 That is what a child would want to know if he or she could vote. That is the well of aspiration for a game-change on energy that Mr. Obama can tap into. And he could even rip off BP for his moon shot motto: Let's get America ''Beyond Petroleum.'' As you would say, Mr. President, this is your time, this is your moment. Seize it. A disaster is an inexcusable thing to waste. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL SPILLS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WETLANDS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



779 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATE IN PLAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: In Ohio, Gauge For Midterms, Economy Rules

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Ben Werschkul contributed reporting from Wilmington, Ohio. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
NEW ALBANY, Ohio -- Good economic news has been virtually extinct in Ohio for a few years now, but Gov. Ted Strickland suddenly finds himself overseeing small yet hopeful moments of recovery: ribbon-cutting ceremonies, groundbreaking events for business parks and televised announcements that jobs are slowly returning to the state. 
 There is not enough time before November to fully restore the 400,000 jobs that have disappeared since Mr. Strickland, a Democrat, was elected four years ago. But he hopes recent signs of renewal will help persuade voters to give him a second term to pursue an agenda of improving education and taking the state beyond its manufacturing past.
 Ohio has a well-earned reputation as perhaps the nation's leading political battleground, a bellwether for the fate of the two parties and a place where the deep recession only compounded longer-term economic woes. 
 Mr. Strickland is facing a challenge from a familiar Washington hand, former Representative John R. Kasich, a Republican who helped balance the federal budget in the 1990s. Mr. Kasich argues that the path to prosperity rests upon less government intrusion, a friendlier business climate and a fiscally conservative approach that defined his 18 years in Congress.
 While signs of improvement are emerging -- Ohio led the nation by adding 37,300 jobs in April -- the optimistic projections are leavened by the reality that more than two-thirds of the 88 counties have higher unemployment rates than the state's overall 10.9 percent, itself well above the national rate of 9.9 percent. And a budget shortfall of $8 billion is looming next year, potentially forcing tax increases, deep service cuts or both. 
 In a season when the electorate is thumbing its nose at incumbents and turning away establishment candidates across the country, voters in Ohio will settle a showdown between the two men's starkly different governing philosophies, voting records and political liabilities.
 Mr. Kasich, after leaving Congress in 2000, became wealthy after a long career in public office by joining Lehman Brothers, the now-bankrupt Wall Street firm that is a symbol of how market forces ran amok. And Mr. Strickland, since leaving Congress in 2006 to become governor, has taken political ownership of Ohio's economic devastation. 
 Their contest will speak to one of the biggest questions about the midterm elections: Will voters see enough improvement in the economy -- and enough progress from Washington on related issues like health care and curbing the national debt -- to grant Democrats more time in power?
 The governor's race will play out on a ballot heavy with other contests that could determine how successful Republicans will be in reversing the Democratic gains of 2006 and 2008, including the campaign for an open Senate seat and enough competitive House contests to help tip the balance of power.
 But the race for governor here could have especially important political implications.
 Seven leading swing states that President Obama carried -- Colorado, Iowa, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin -- have Democratic governors who are either stepping down or running against especially strong candidates recruited by Republicans. Democratic losses could complicate Mr. Obama's re-election bid in 2012 by giving Republicans a better chance to establish statewide operations to help their nominee.
 ''Quite frankly, I think if I'm the governor in 2012, President Obama will carry Ohio,'' Mr. Strickland said in an interview. ''I think if John Kasich is the governor in 2012, it would be much more difficult for Obama to carry Ohio. It's just the reality.''
 Governors' races carry extra significance this year, with the once-a-decade reapportionment of Congressional seats after the 2010 census. Either Mr. Strickland or Mr. Kasich will ultimately sign off on the realignment of districts, which will probably determine whether Democrats or Republicans will relinquish the one or two House seats Ohio is expected to lose.
 The latest Ohio Poll, released Friday by the University of Cincinnati, found that 49 percent of likely voters support Mr. Strickland, compared with 44 percent who back Mr. Kasich. The poll has a margin of error of four percentage points. 
 The Ohio governor's race also illustrates that the politics of this midterm election do not always fall easily into the anti-incumbent, anti-establishment narrative. Those sentiments are not necessarily more potent than local issues and the individual strengths, weaknesses and records of the candidates.
 Mr. Strickland, a Methodist minister and former prison psychologist who grew up on a road called Duck Run in Appalachian Ohio, sent volunteers to hand out fliers at Tea Party rallies to promote his high ratings from the National Rifle Association, whose endorsement he is seeking. Mr. Kasich, a former host of a conservative talk show on Fox News, received poor marks from the N.R.A. for supporting the assault weapons ban, which he points to as proof of his independence.
 But the race, according to interviews with Ohio voters, is likely to turn on the economy. 
 ''If there are indications throughout the economy that things are headed in the right direction or improving, I think the mood come election time in November will be different than it is today,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''If things were to deteriorate or to stay exactly the way they are, I think people very likely will be thinking we should rethink our leadership.''
 Mr. Kasich argues that his pedigree is perfect for these challenging fiscal times. He pushed aggressively while in Congress to hold down spending. He said he would do the same in Ohio, but declined to offer specifics. 
 ''I was always a very independent guy,'' Mr. Kasich said. ''The Republican Party is my vehicle, not my master.''
 His time in Washington is on display at the John R. Kasich Congressional Collection, on the second floor of the public library in his hometown, Westerville. His desk, nameplate and cabinets stuffed with mementos fill a room, along with a chairman's gavel from the Budget Committee, signed by Newt Gingrich.
 Democrats have sought to make a campaign issue out of Mr. Kasich's position as a managing director at Lehman Brothers. In the first television advertisement of the campaign this month, Mr. Strickland did not emphasize his own record, but sharply criticized Mr. Kasich's time on Wall Street.
 ''He represents something that is not very attractive right now,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''The fellow has made a lot of money on Wall Street and participated in a culture and a company that perhaps more than any other contributed to the economic mess.''
 Mr. Kasich said holding him responsible for Lehman decisions was ''like trying to blame a car dealer in Cleveland for General Motors.'' He worked on investment banking, he said, not on the mortgage-backed securities that contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis.
 Republicans responded to the criticism with a television advertisement highlighting accusations of ethical missteps in the Strickland administration, including the public safety director's effort to shield Mr. Strickland from political embarrassment by calling off a sting operation that focused on inmates working at the governor's mansion who were trying to smuggle contraband tobacco into prison. 
 Bouncing around central Ohio last week, Mr. Strickland sought to turn the conversation back to economic news. He led a round of applause at a ceremony here, near Columbus, where the parent company of the discount clothes store T. J. Maxx plans to build a corporate technology center.
 ''The long nightmare, which is frequently referred to as the recession, is coming to an end,'' he said. ''The clouds are lifting and the economic sunshine is starting to break through.''
 STATE IN PLAY: This is the first in a series of articles that will look at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Ted Strickland hopes signs of economic recovery will help him win re-election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHARTS: As Job Growth and the Economy Continue to Lag in Ohio
Approval of the Governor and the President Slide (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics (Unemployment)
Haver Analytics (mortgage)
Bureau of Economic Analysis (G.D.P.)
Census Bureau (income)
 Institute for Policy Research at the University of Cincinnati (polls)) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); TAX LAW (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (90%); JOHN KASICH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



780 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Interim Report

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a regular contributor to the Book Review and a senior editor at The National Interest.

 BODY:
THE PROMISE
 President Obama, Year One
 By Jonathan Alter
 Illustrated. 458 pp. Simon & Schuster. $28
 Barack Obama may be struggling to right the listing economy, but he has stimulated a remarkable growth spurt in at least one battered sector. His presidency has ignited a literary boomlet. The Obama administration, as Howard Kurtz of The Washington Post recently observed, is under siege -- not from lobbyists or hostile Republicans, but from a welter of elite journalists demanding interviews as they race to complete their books about the White House. 
 One of the earliest off the mark is Jonathan Alter. Alter, who grew up in Chicago and is a longtime columnist for Newsweek, originally encountered Obama in January 2002 when he was an Illinois state senator. In the intervening years, he met Obama several times and wrote the first cover article about him to appear in a national magazine. And in November 2008, Obama revealed on ''60 Minutes'' that he had been studying ''The Defining Moment,'' Alter's book on the first 100 days of Franklin Roosevelt, whom he hoped to emulate. How well has he done? ''The Promise'' offers an excellent opportunity to appraise Obama's initial efforts. Drawing on interviews with over 200 people, including the president and his top aides, Alter examines everything from the economic bailouts to the military surge in Afghanistan.
 Throughout, he seeks to avoid what he refers to as the ''polemics of punditry.'' This endows his narrative with a lapidary tone that is mercifully free of the breathless sensationalism of recent campaign books, but it also results, at times, in a somewhat cloistered quality. Alter never really discusses the larger ideological battles that have buffeted Washington. The Tea Party movement, Sarah Palin and Fox News have only walk-on parts. Instead, the spotlight shines firmly on the intricate maneuverings of the White House's inner circle. Alter's informative but detached narrative, you could even say, is itself Obamaesque.
 Alter begins by suggesting that Obama achieved more during his first year than is commonly acknowledged, not least by many on the left. Alter thus praises Obama's stimulus bill as consisting of ''five landmark pieces of legislation in one'' that would have made him look ''like Superman, or at least more like F.D.R.,'' had it been split up into separate bills. But Obama, Alter says, was more interested in ''speed than credit.'' Alter also applauds Obama for dressing down the military brass, who tried to issue damaging leaks to the press in hopes of short-circuiting his lengthy review of the war in Afghanistan. ''The commander in chief now undertook the most direct assertion of presidential authority over the U.S. military since President Truman fired General MacArthur in 1951,'' Alter writes.
 Alter's evident sympathy for Obama and his policies scarcely means that he functions as a credulous court stenographer. On the contrary, he perceptively observes that Obama's emphasis on previous government experience often translated into insularity as he surrounded himself with Clinton-era officials steeped in the values of Wall Street. ''Obama was inside that cozy group now,'' Alter writes, ''and it would be increasingly difficult for him to see beyond its borders.'' He goes on to observe that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the White House National Economic Council, ''offered sophisticated explanations for every decision at a level of complexity that easily bamboozled reporters.'' Obama himself had two sides -- Chicago community organizer and Ivy League meritocrat. The meritocrat won out. According to Alter, ''Obama's faith lay in cream rising to the top. Because he himself was a product of the great American postwar meritocracy, he could never fully escape seeing the world from the status ladder he had ascended.'' In this regard, the contrast with Franklin Roosevelt, who heartily reciprocated the enmity of the privileged class from which he had emerged, is striking.
 This faith in Ivy League rationality may also help to explain Obama's initial abundant confidence about ushering in a new era of better, if not good, feelings. But from the outset, the House Republicans made it clear that they would battle Obama at every turn -- even before he officially became president. Unlike Roosevelt, who refused to coordinate any policies with Herbert Hoover before he was sworn into office, Obama struck out on a bipartisan course in September 2008, when the financial meltdown took place. At a pivotal meeting at the White House, Obama took command, while George W. Bush and John McCain listened passively. (Afterward, Alter reports, Obama told aides the meeting was ''surreal.'') Alter rather expansively defines this moment as the true inauguration of the Obama presidency.
 Instead, one might say it marked both the expiry of the Bush presidency, which sought to manipulate the bureaucracy for conservative aims, and the flowering of the radical right, which views government itself as the enemy. Perhaps the most significant political impact of that September session was the antipathy House Republicans displayed toward a financial bailout plan being proposed by Bush's own Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson, and that Obama, too, was essentially endorsing. Right then and there, Obama would have done well to ponder his ability to soften the Republican Party's opposition to overhauling either the economy or health care.
 However, a confident Obama, Alter writes, overrode his chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, to insist on an all-out effort on behalf of health care. Alter might have emphasized that it was House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, more than anyone else, who rescued Obama, and possibly his presidency. With the passage of health care, Obama has been revivified. Alter himself, with an almost audible sigh of relief, signs out with the observation that Obama is now ''in the company of Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson, . . . a figure of history for reasons far beyond the color of his skin.''
 It's a pity that Alter doesn't delve into some of the similarities between Roosevelt and Obama, not least their vilification by a motley crew on the right, with their lugubrious predictions about America's descent into socialism. As the midterm elections approach, Obama might recall that in 1934, the American Liberty League, backed by the du Ponts and conservative Democrats, emerged to deem Social Security the ''end of democracy.'' But in that year's Congressional elections, Republicans dropped from 117 to 103 seats in the House and 35 to 25 in the Senate. Despite the predictions of huge Democratic losses this fall, a sweeping Republican victory may not materialize, especially if Obama remains personally popular.
 Whatever the case, it seems unlikely that the cautious Obama, a true conservative at a moment when the term has become soiled by its current representatives, will preside over a new era of resurgent liberalism. Still, if he outflanks his opponents, winds down two wars and, above all, revives the economy, he will surely more than fulfill his abundant promise, and the dream of change that his campaign so skillfully evoked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES (SEPT. 30, 2009)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); BAILOUTS (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

TITLE: Promise: President Obama, Year One, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



781 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Katrina? Maybe Worse

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
FOR Barack Obama's knee-jerk foes, of course it was his Katrina. But for the rest of us, there's the nagging fear that the largest oil spill in our history could yet prove worse if it drags on much longer. It might not only wreck the ecology of a region but capsize the principal mission of the Obama presidency.
 Before we look at why, it would be helpful to briefly revisit that increasingly airbrushed late summer of 2005. Whatever Obama's failings, he is infinitely more competent at coping with catastrophe than his predecessor. President Bush's top disaster managers -- the Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, as well as the notorious ''Brownie'' -- professed ignorance of New Orleans's humanitarian crisis a full day after the nation had started watching it live in real time on television. When Bush finally appeared, he shunned the city entirely and instead made a jocular show of vowing to rebuild the coastal home of his party's former Senate leader, Trent Lott. He never did take charge. 
 The Obama administration has been engaged with the oil spill from the start -- however haltingly and inarticulately at times. It was way too trusting of BP but was never AWOL. For all the second-guessing, it's still not clear what else the president might have done to make a definitive, as opposed to cosmetic, difference in plugging the hole: yell louder at BP, send in troops and tankers, or, as James Carville would have it, assume the role of Big Daddy? The spill is not a Tennessee Williams play, its setting notwithstanding, and it's hard to see what more drama would add, particularly since No Drama Obama's considerable talents do not include credible play-acting. 
 But life isn't fair, and this president is in a far tougher spot in 2010 than his predecessor was in 2005.
 When Katrina hit, Bush was in his second term and his bumbling was not a shock to a country that had witnessed two-plus years of his grievous mismanagement of the Iraq war. His laissez-faire response to the hurricane was also consistent with his political DNA as a small-government conservative in thrall to big business. His administration's posture toward the gulf region had been telegraphed at its inception, when Dick Cheney convened oil and gas cronies, including Enron's Ken Lay, to set environmental and energy policy. The Interior Department devolved into a cesspool of corruption, even by its historically low standards, turning the Bush-Cheney antigovernment animus into a self-fulfilling prophecy and bequeathing Obama a Minerals Management Service as broken as the Bush-Cheney FEMA exposed by Katrina. 
 Obama was elected as a progressive antidote to this discredited brand of governance. Of all the president's stated goals, none may be more sweeping than his desire to prove that government is not always a hapless and intrusive bureaucratic assault on taxpayers' patience and pocketbooks, but a potential force for good. 
 He returned to this theme with particular eloquence in his University of Michigan commencement speech 10 days after the Deepwater Horizon blowout. He reminded his audience that under both parties the federal government helped build public high schools, the transcontinental railroad and the interstate highway system, engineered the New Deal and Medicare -- and imposed safety and environmental standards on the oil industry. Quoting Lincoln, Obama said that ''the role of government is to do for the people what they cannot do better for themselves.'' 
 We expect him to deliver on this core conviction. But the impact on ''the people'' of his signature governmental project so far, health care reform, remains provisional and abstract. Like it or not, a pipe gushing poison into an ocean is a visceral crisis demanding visible, immediate action.
 Obama's news conference on Thursday -- explaining in detail the government's response, its mistakes and its precise relationship to BP -- was at least three weeks overdue. It was also his first full news conference in 10 months. Obama's recurrent tardiness in defining exactly what he wants done on a given issue -- a lapse also evident in the protracted rollout of the White House's specific health care priorities -- remains baffling, as does his recent avoidance of news conferences. Such diffidence does not convey a J.F.K.-redux in charge of a neo-New Frontier activist government. 
 Long before Obama took office, the public was plenty skeptical that government could do anything right. Eight years of epic Bush ineptitude and waste only added to Washington's odor. Now Obama is stuck between a rock and a Tea Party. His credibility as a champion of reformed, competent government is held hostage by video from the gulf. And this in an election year when the very idea of a viable federal government is under angrier assault than at any time since the Gingrich revolution and militia mobilization of 1994-5 and arguably since the birth of the modern conservative movement in the 1960s.
 This is why the more revealing strand of Rand Paul's post-primary victory romp may have been his musings about BP, not civil rights law -- although they are two sides of the same ideological coin. He called out Obama and his administration for sounding ''really un-American'' in their ''criticism of business.'' He asked that we stop the ''blame game'' over the disaster and instead just accept the fact that ''accidents happen.'' Much as Paul questioned the federal government's role in ordering lunch counters to desegregate, so he belittled its intrusion into BP's toxic private enterprise. But unlike the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the role of government in corporate regulation is a continuing battle, not settled law. 
 Hardly were those words out of Paul's mouth than the G.O.P. gave him the hook. He dropped his scheduled appearance on last Sunday's ''Meet the Press.'' Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader and Paul's newly self-appointed minder, declared that his fellow Kentuckian had said ''quite enough for the time being in terms of national press coverage.'' Establishment conservatives have scrambled to portray Paul as either an innocent victim of a liberal media game of ''gotcha'' or an inexperienced citizen-politician who made the rookie mistake of conducting campaign interviews as if they were classroom seminars in Libertarian theory. We were told he really didn't mean what he was saying, and that he certainly didn't represent the G.O.P. or the Tea Party movement.
 Whom are they kidding? Paul rightly described his victory as ''a message from the Tea Party'' that it was on the march ''to take our government back.'' And if he doesn't represent the G.O.P., who does if not his most powerful supporters and ideological fellow travelers, Glenn Beck and Sarah Palin? Aside from saying no to Obama, the Republican Party has no ideas except Tea Party ideas, Rand Paul ideas. And as The Economist, hardly a liberal observer, put it, Paul's views are those of ''a genuine radical who believes in paring government down to the bone.''
 The president of the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative think tank, codified the mission in apocalyptic terms last weekend. The new American ''culture war,'' Arthur C. Brooks wrote in The Washington Post, is not ''over guns, gays or abortion'' but pits ''the principles of free enterprise'' against the ''European-style statism'' he accuses Obama of fomenting. It's a war that takes no prisoners: the A.E.I. purged the former Bush speechwriter David Frum after he broke with the strict party line.
 The stakes are high. To win this culture war, the right must rewrite history -- and not just that of the Bush response to Katrina. In his jeremiad, Brooks held only ''government housing policy'' responsible for the 2008 economic meltdown and gave a pass to what he regards as an already overregulated Wall Street. Palin has brazenly accused Obama of being in financial hock to Big Oil when it's her own ''drill, baby, drill'' party that has collected three-quarters of Big Oil's campaign cash for decades. 
 The Tea Party is meanwhile busy rewriting America's early history under Beck's tutelage by enforcing a vision of the Constitution tantamount to the Creationists' view of Genesis. We must obey the words of the founding fathers literally -- or what the Tea Partiers think those words to be. (Many Tea Partiers seem unaware that Medicare is a government entitlement postdating Tom Paine.) There can be no evolution or amendments. Any Obama initiatives are sacrilegious. All previous add-ons are un-American and must be pared away, from the Department of Education to the Americans with Disabilities Act. Michael Steele, the party chairman, attacked Elena Kagan for joining Thurgood Marshall in finding the original text of the Constitution ''defective'' because, among other defects, it countenanced slavery. 
 The only good news from the oil spill is that when catastrophe strikes, even some hard-line conservatives, like Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, start begging for the federal government to act, and act big. It's the crunch moment for government to make its case -- as Obama belatedly started to do on Thursday. But words are no match for results. As long as the stain washes up on shore, the hole in BP's pipe will serve the right as a gaping hole in the president's argument for expanded government supervision of, for starters, Big Oil and big banks. It's not just the gulf that could suffer for decades to come. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); HURRICANES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CORRUPTION (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



782 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A 3-Year Degree: Can Less Be More?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Degree in Three,'' by Stephen Joel Trachtenberg and Gerald Kauvar (Op-Ed, May 25):
 The writers urge colleges to develop three-year degree programs. I worry that a critical part of the undergraduate experience would be forgotten in this rush toward an economic solution: the social and personal development of students.
 In an era in which parents are closely monitoring the minutiae of their children's lives, college often represents the first large dose of freedom. The sudden options can seem limitless. 
 The new freedom and responsibility are what lead so many students to change their majors and, in many cases, the course of their lives. These decisions cannot be made quickly or easily by students with so little experience.
 True, a shorter curriculum would produce more degrees, but it might also produce more students for whom the degree is a sentence to a life not wanted.
 Shawn Galdeen New York, May 25, 2010
 The writer is a research support specialist at Rockefeller University.
 To the Editor:
 Stephen Joel Trachtenberg and Gerald Kauvar presume that students entering college are so well prepared that they can have their education compressed into three years. They aren't, and they can't.
 They presume that faculty members can devote summers to instruction. They can't if they pursue research, which remains a hallmark of academe and a tenure requirement.
 Most devastatingly, they presume that all disciplines fit neatly into a three-year package. Science and engineering don't, and if three years becomes the norm, the American work force will become even more technologically disadvantaged than it already is.
 Michael S. Lubell New York, May 25, 2010
 The writer is a physics professor at City College, CUNY. 
 To the Editor:
 The proposal to shorten college programs is really just a revenue-generating technique disguised as educational reform.
 Institutions of higher education, especially private colleges and universities, have failed to address cost-containment problems for decades. What we need is not to produce college graduates more quickly, but less expensively, so that fewer people are saddled with the sort of debt that limits postgraduate options so severely.
 Roger Blumberg Providence, R.I., May 25, 2010
 The writer is an adjunct lecturer in computer science at Brown University and director of evaluation for Mendele Education, a company that specializes in program evaluation.
 To the Editor:
 The proposal for a college degree in three years is unrealistic and problematic. And, as explained by the writers, there would be three calendar years of study, but with two summer semesters. This is eight semesters -- just business as usual.
 Joel Trachtenberg and Gerald Kauvar argue that students will get into the job market more quickly. Yes, they might -- and into a dismal market while deepening their student loan debt because they will not be able to work full time during the summer.
 Robert R. Johnson Houghton, Mich., May 25, 2010
 The writer is a professor of humanities at Michigan Technological University.
 To the Editor:
 Five years ago, I arrived at college intent on studying biology and going to medical school. Last June, I departed with a degree in religion, an offer to live and teach in Japan, and a plan to go on to seminary.
 A postsecondary education that encourages economics majors to take an art class, and allows chemistry students to study abroad in Shanghai not only creates more insightful people, but also sustains a society -- and an economy -- that increasingly depends on interdisciplinary thinking. Reducing college to three years would limit the time to take advantage of such opportunities.
 Perhaps educational paths like mine are inefficient. But perhaps they ought to be. After all, becoming the person we want to be is quite literally the work of a lifetime.
 Hal Edmonson Tsugaru, Japan, May 26, 2010
 To the Editor:
 So some schools have contracted their medical and law programs by a year, and now we're told that undergraduate schools should do the same.
 What's going on here? Have medicine and law gotten simpler? Add to this the growing popularity of accelerated high school programs, and it looks as if we are attacking higher education at all levels.
 The strength of our country is built largely on intellectual capital. For decades our higher education system has attracted the best and the brightest from across the globe. Contracting high school, college and graduate programs may save money, but I doubt it would make us stronger or more competitive.
 Andrew Bohm Newton, Mass., May 26, 2010
 The writer is an associate professor at the Tufts University School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 Stephen Joel Trachtenberg and Gerald Kauvar sound like a maitre d' and a waiter at a second-rate restaurant: rushing diners through to turn over tables for the next wave.
 Letting customers savor the meal, linger over dessert, then digest the experience all become secondary to counting the dollars and getting people on their way.
 Brian Williams Columbus, Ohio, May 25, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANK CHIMERO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); CURRICULA (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (67%); EDUCATION REFORM (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



783 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Teachable Moments In Illinois Politics

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
With the trial of former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich set to begin Thursday and drag on for months, I suggest a fall curriculum for students at the esteemed Harris School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago. Here's a sneak peek:
 Burrising the Selection Process: Making U.S. Senate Appointments. 
Thursdays 3:00-5:50 p.m.
 Instructor: Patrick J. Fitzgerald
 The selection of Roland W. Burris for Barack Obama's senate seat has been denigrated as a triumph of cynicism over ideology, part of an alleged ''political crime spree'' by the former governor and his attempt to ''sell'' the seat. At the same time, it seemed to reflect a continuation of a familiar dynamic of many in the system, namely the daily craving for a quid pro quo. What is the truth? Are we naive in thinking that merit should be considered? Should Ozzie Guillen have been picked? Numerous (54,367) European, Asian and African applications of similar blunt discussions over key positions will be cited. This will include lengthy, profane wiretapped exchanges between a governor and a White House chief of staff. 
 The Spouse: Tapping Partnerships in Campaign Finance. 
 Mondays 1:30-2:50 p.m. 
 Instructor: Tony Rezko
 This course explores the importance of formal and informal institutions in democracies, with an emphasis on the electoral system and its links to the real estate industry. Topics include the impact on policy formation of the relationship among political institutions, the financial well-being of a state's highest elected official and his spouse, and important political contributors, especially those able to employ the spouse as a so-called ghost payroller. Guests from Remax and Koenig & Strey will explain how to succeed without showing up for work and how colleagues can claim that the spouse brokered deals even while dining alone at a Byron's Hot Dog or watching paternity-test results on ''Maury.'' Prerequisites: PP30400 (condo economics) and PP32420 (accounting gymnastics).
 Politics and Entrepreneurship: Advancing the BHAG (Big Hair's Audacious Goals).
 Tuesdays 6:00-8:50 p.m. 
 Instructor: John Harris, former gubernatorial chief of staff
 Students in this course will learn: 1. How to make a self-serving cost-benefit analysis of public appropriations. 2. How to incorporate elements of cost-benefit analysis in strong-arming key players, including transit contractors. 3. When not to use a cost-benefit analysis. For example, 15 minutes after announcing a $1.8 billion plan for new interchanges and ''green lanes'' on a state toll road, is it smart to ask a concrete contractor to pony up $500,000 for a campaign fund and then declare, ''If they don't perform,'' expletive deleted '' 'em''? For international context, students will view video of Sarah Ferguson seeking $750,000 for access to her former husband, the Duke of York.
 Public Budgeting: Is it Really That Important? 
 Tuesdays 10:30-11:50 a.m. 
 Instructor: Michael Madigan
 This new course tests the thesis that budgeting in the public sector incorporates skills developed in public policy programs, including policy analysis, metrics, intelligent decision-making, priority setting and implementation of strategic plans. A team of Nobel laureates will try to make sense of an Illinois deficit and the seeming refusal of a legislature to deal with soaring pension obligations. This includes real-world exercises, mimicking what goes on in the state capital in an election year and testing of 25 fifth graders to see if they can deal better with the fiscal negligence.
 Philanthropy and Public Policy.
 Thursday 5:30-8:20 p.m. 
 Instructor: Former Bear Stearns Executive (to be named)
 This course focuses on how a state's top official can assist fee-hungry Wall Street firms even at a time of sharply declining revenues. It will consider the pursuit of ''finder's fees'' from non-competitive deals in which state pension business is awarded to New York investment houses, which kick back fees to the official's allies. This will also include Chicago journalists explaining their obsession with modest City Hall corruption and Mayor Richard M. Daley's rhetorical malaprops, and also their inability to distinguish between a stock and a bond. It will conclude with a written final exam on whether Rod R. Blagojevich constituted much of an exception in American politics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); WIRETAPPING (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); POURED CONCRETE CONTRACTORS (60%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



784 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Monique Thormann, Marcus Courtney

BYLINE: By JOHN HARNEY

 BODY:
Monique Alicia Thormann and Marcus Robert Courtney were married Saturday at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Washington by the Rev. J. Leon Hooper, a Roman Catholic priest. The Rev. Thomas P. Haffey took part. 
 The bride, 40, is a communications consultant to international aid organizations and works in Geneva. Until last year, she was a communication manager for the United Nations Children's Fund there. She graduated from Brandeis and received a master's in journalism from Columbia.
 She is the daughter of Mary S. Thormann and Peter H. Thormann of Washington. The bride's father retired as an economist from the United States Agency for International Development. He was last posted in Washington. Her mother is the director of international education for the Center for Educational Improvement, a nonprofit organization being developed in Vienna, Va.
 The bridegroom, 39, works for UNI Global Union, an international federation of trade unions, in Nyon, Switzerland. He is the head of the department that represents communications workers' unions. He graduated from the University of Montana.
 Mr. Courtney is a son of Ann M. Courtney and James R. Courtney of Butte, Mont. His mother is the executive director of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Butte. His father, who is retired, taught American history and government at Butte High School.
 The couple met in Geneva early in 2009 at a Democrats Abroad reception for Howard Dean, the outgoing Democratic national chairman.
 Mr. Courtney, who was living in Nyon and had been abroad for a relatively short time, said: ''She kind of caught my eye and I caught her eye. We just started talking, and kept circling back at each other as the evening continued.''
 He ''laughed at my jokes and I laughed at his,'' Ms. Thormann said. ''He asked me out to dinner.''
 Mr. Courtney said that as the group started to disperse, he thought: ''I better ask her out this very second. In Geneva, if you meet someone and you don't try to go out right away, in that moment, with everyone's travel schedule and international life, your paths might never cross again.''
 His instincts were correct. Ms. Thormann, who was born in Geneva when her father was posted there and had been back for four years with Unicef, was thinking about moving.
 They went to a small restaurant and talked until well after midnight, and Mr. Courtney took the last train back to Nyon.
 ''I just thought, let's see what happens,'' Ms. Thormann said. ''I guess I kind of looked at it as having traveled and worked in so many places, and I finally stayed in one place.''
 She added, ''I kind of found my world in him.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YORK SCHEUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (62%); HISTORY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%); BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%) MONTANA, USA (92%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (90%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



785 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ATTACK BARES COMPLEX TIES BETWEEN THE TWO KOREAS
 Since North Korea was implicated in the sinking of a South Korean warship, reactions in the South have ranged from anger to betrayal to disbelief. And many South Koreans continue to favor engaging the North Koreans, whom they still view partly as kin. PAGE 9
 MALAWI PARDONS GAY COUPLE 
 The president of Malawi pardoned a gay couple that was sentenced to 14 years in prison for ''unnatural acts,'' a punishment that drew international criticism. The pardon came shortly after Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations met with Malawi's president. PAGE 8
 BRITISH MINISTER RESIGNS
 Britain's new coalition government suffered its first major political setback when David Laws, the cabinet minister responsible for finding deep budget cuts, resigned over newspaper reports about his parliamentary expenses. PAGE 9
 TALIBAN TAKES OVER DISTRICT
 Taliban fighters took control of Barg-e-Matal a remote district near the Pakistani border, scattering the forces of the Afghan government. While embarrassing to the Afghan government, the fall of the district is not necessarily strategically significant. PAGE 10
 National
 GULF FISHERMEN GRIEVE 
 For Their Way of Life
 Five weeks after the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig, many fishermen along Louisiana's befouled coast are grappling with the realization that their way of life might be disrupted for a long time to come. PAGE 11 
 BOSTON HONORS WAR DEAD
 'Each Memorial Day, all 1,230 of Boston's intersections named for locals who died serving in the military are decorated. But the task is getting more difficult because the veterans who do most of the decorating are getting older. PAGE 11 
 SIDES INTERSECT IN ARIZONA
 Several thousand people marched in Phoenix to voice their opposition to Arizona's new immigration law. And at a stadium nearby, another large gathering was expected in support of the law. PAGE 12 
 New York
 A NIGHT FOR TEACHERS 
 To Play the Apollo
 At the Apollo's first Amateur Night dedicated to public school teachers, acts will seek the loudest applause. But they also risk being booed, a chilling vision for a teacher whose students are watching. PAGE 20 
 Sports
 ROUGE DRESSES UP 
 The Courts in Paris
 The famous clay courts at Roland Garros, the site of the French Open, are not really clay at all, but white limestone, frosted with a few millimeters of powdered red brick dust. The beauty of the Roland Garros courts is only skin deep. PAGE 1 
 THE STAR AND HIS SIDEKICK
 Seldom has there been a pro basketball partnership like Kobe Bryant and Derek Fisher's: the highly credentialed and often contentious superstar and his special vocational friend. PAGE 1
 FIGHTING CHEWING TOBACCO
 The former baseball player and broadcaster Joe Garagiola has been to too many funerals. Some of them were for friends who chewed tobacco, the way Garagiola used to do. Now Garagiola is speaking out against the habit. Sports of The Times by George Vecsey. PAGE 3 
 Yankees Blow Big Lead to Indians 1
 Obituaries
 GERALD ROUSH, 68
 A Ferrari historian, a collector of Ferrari memorabilia and photography, he was the keeper of perhaps the most complete and detailed database of Ferrari information in the world. PAGE 21
 Sunday Business
 WAITING FOR THE DOCTOR IN A CHAT ROOM
 Spurred by a scarcity of physicians in many areas, advances in technology and the need to reduce medical costs, telemedicine is growing into a mainstream, and lucrative, industry. PAGE 1
 FINANCIAL BILLS FALLING SHORT
 The two bills that the Senate and the House are mulling in the nation's financial reordering have flaws that may leave the economy vulnerable. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1 
 TWO SIDES OF EUROPE'S CRISIS
 Investors fear that nations like Greece and Portugal could slow the recovery in the United States, but what does the crisis in Europe really mean for domestic growth? The answer depends on which aspect of the crisis you're looking at. PAGE 5 
 Arts & Leisure
 RENeE FLEMING ROCKS, BUT DON'T CALL IT A CROSSOVER
 For months now, the soprano Renee Fleming, her recording company and her public relations agency have been working hard to make clear that ''Dark Hope,'' her new Decca recording of indie rock songs, is not a crossover project. PAGE 1 
 Magazine
 RECOGNIZING VALOR
 Despite its symbolic importance and educational role in military culture, the Pentagon, since 9/11, has awarded remarkably few Medals of Honor, the most revered medal given by the armed forces for acts of courage. Now, some soldiers and their families are asking why. PAGE 46
 Book Review
 THE HACKER AND THE WRITER
 ''The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest,'' the third installment of Stieg Larsson's trilogy, is much like the first two books, written something like the work of John Grisham, if he had started out with Amnesty International instead of practicing law in Mississippi. PAGE 1
 Week in Review
 OUR FIX-IT FAITH
 Americans have long had an unswerving belief that technology will save us. And yet, as Americans watched scientists struggle to plug the undersea oil well in the Gulf of Mexico over the past month, it became apparent that our great faith was perhaps misplaced. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 THE UNCERTAIN RECOVERY
 The American economy still faces risks, and they are made all the worse by an increasingly incoherent response from Congress. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Learning to emote, five weeks too late. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 A recent blog post after the death of the jazz legend Hank Jones raised the question: Are there different standards for print and online journalism? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARDONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); SENTENCING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); BUDGETS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); ATHLETES (65%); CELEBRITIES (65%); BASEBALL (62%); BASKETBALL (60%); BUDGET CUTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (58%); KOBE BRYANT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MALAWI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



786 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Cass Sunstein Wants To Nudge Us

 BODY:
The libertarian nudging espoused by Cass Sunstein sounds like a happier and more effective way to get things done than the paternalistic dictatorialism so pervasive on all sides of today's legislative and policy divides. Where Sunstein's notion involves understanding and leveraging human nature to promote essential behavior change, the governing mantra on topics like safe cellphone use, resource conservation and health care reform consistently seems to hinge on the imposition of iron-fisted mandates backed by punishments for noncompliance. This isn't to argue that both pleasure and pain cannot have a role in affecting widely distributed individual actions. But social and environmental-marketing case history is replete with successes that came because policy makers clearly perceived the true strategic value of inspiring people to do the right thing before pulling out the big Draconian stick. In the world of governance, I think the technical name for that approach is ''leadership.'' JEF LOEB San Francisco
 Cass Sunstein explicitly compares Americans to Homer Simpsons requiring government guidance to live. In my view, the proper function of government is to protect individual rights and freedoms. Unless we violate others' rights by force or fraud, the government should leave us alone to live according to our best judgment. 
 Of course, individuals may voluntarily ''nudge'' themselves to achieve long-term goals, like having your bank automatically deposit a portion of each paycheck into a child's college fund. But each person must make these decisions for himself based on his goals and circumstances. These choices are his responsibility and his right -- not the government's.
 Libertarian paternalism in essence says, ''Don't worry -- we'll do your thinking for you.'' If Americans start surrendering their minds thus to the government, they will become easy prey for demagogues and dictators. PAUL HSIEH Sedalia, Colo.
 Benjamin Wallace-Well's article about Cass Sunstein suggests that discounting is the only factor affecting the costs of climate policy. In fact, estimates of future damages are also crucial. The science-based estimates in the Stern Review, which the article calls ''apocalyptic,'' imply losses of 5 to 20 percent of world output from global warming. The Nordhaus model, dubbed ''more moderate,'' uses idiosyncratic estimates implying much smaller losses.
 Wallace-Wells reports that I believe the administration's preference for a 3 percent discount rate ''nowhere captures the urgency of the science.'' In fact, I was referring not simply to that discount rate but to Sunstein's timid climate policy as a whole. That policy, based on estimates like the Nordhaus model that trivialize the climate crisis, says that the climate damages caused by using a gallon of gasoline are worth only about 20 cents -- so we shouldn't spend any more than that to reduce emissions. Such limited efforts would have almost no effect on the use of fossil fuels, or on emissions. Yet reducing emissions is of the utmost urgency. FRANK ACKERMAN Director, Climate Economics Group Stockholm Environment Institute Somerville, Mass.
 The E.P.A. and Richard Posner appear to have vastly different ideas as to how to value a human life. At $6.1 million per life, the value of just the 300 million living Americans alone is $1,830 trillion -- three times Posner's value for averting the extinction of the entire human race. Even if 90 percent of the world's people who don't live in the United States are considered less valuable on a per capita basis, the aggregate ''values'' would still be off by a factor of 50 or so. And that doesn't even consider the ''value'' of future generations. RICHARD ABT Meadowbrook, Pa.
 MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''Cass Sunstein Wants to Nudge Us,'' by Benjamin Wallace-Wells 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (56%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



787 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Mother's Eyes See Trouble With Tax Rolls

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics for 25 years. He is the editor of the California Health Report at www.healthycal.org.

 BODY:
Jennifer Bestor is a fifth-generation Republican, a stay-at-home mother from Menlo Park who was concerned about budget cuts at her son's school. So she started looking into the property taxes that underwrite the schools. What she found disturbed her.
 Ms. Bestor, who has a master's degree in business administration and years of experience on the financial side of the high-tech industry, used her training to build a database of every commercial property in the city. 
 The 352 parcels formed a mosaic of tax bills, with similar businesses on similar pieces of property paying wildly different amounts, depending on when the property last changed hands.
 Ms. Bestor cites a Trader Joe's grocery with a landlord who pays just $7,400 in taxes -- less than many local homeowners -- for a structure that occupies an entire city block. She found a Walgreens pharmacy in a building taking up more than half a block while paying $8,700 in property taxes. And she found a small, independent gas station paying twice as much as the big-name station nearby. 
 ''That was an eye-opener,'' Ms. Bestor said.
 All of this is a legacy of Proposition 13, the law California voters passed in 1978 to reduce property taxes and keep them low. The law caps taxes at 1 percent of the assessed value, limits increases to no more than 2 percent a year and allows reassessments only when a change of ownership occurs.
 Almost since the day that measure passed, critics have been trying to find a way to treat commercial property differently from homes, to reassess business property more often than only when there is a change of ownership. One reason: unlike homes, which usually transfer from one individual to another, or between couples, the ownership of business property is often murky. Trusts, partnerships and corporations have multiple owners who can come and go over a period of years until all of the original owners are replaced by a new set. But the property that entity owns might never be reassessed; its tax bill remains low.
 Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, a San Francisco Democrat, has a bill in the Legislature to require reassessments whenever 100 percent of a company or partnership that owns property changes hands in a single transaction. But even this modest reform likely will fail because it needs a two-thirds supermajority to pass, and Republican lawmakers oppose it.
 ''If every Californian understood the situation, and they decided they didn't want to do anything about it, that would be fine with me,'' Ms. Bestor said. ''But nobody seems to know about this.''
 That ignorance pains Lenny Goldberg, perhaps the state's most determined advocate for raising taxes on commercial property. Mr. Goldberg, whose California Tax Reform Association is backed by organized labor, has been arguing for a split roll for at least 15 years. But he has failed, largely because the public reveres Proposition 13.
 Now, Mr. Goldberg wants to find dozens of Jennifer Bestors to study the tax rolls of their towns and cities and make the case to friends and neighbors for amending Proposition 13, using examples that are close to home. 
 ''Our goal over the next few years is really to do in-depth research on a community-by-community basis, and have people understand that the system is absurd, nonsensical, and unfair,'' he said.
 Rex S. Hime, president and chief executive of the California Business Properties Association, said his group generally agreed that property should be reassessed when a majority of its ownership changes hands. 
 But Mr. Hime argues that a true split roll treating business property differently from residential would be a disaster for the economy, and for individuals. Small-business owners would find their property suddenly reassessed and their taxes raised, he said, perhaps to the point of driving them out of business. ''Many of them have owned their properties for 25 or 30 years,'' he said. They could face tax increases big enough to force them to sell their property.
 But Mr. Goldberg and Ms. Bestor say that Mr. Hime is fronting for large property owners who like things the way they are and want the public to believe that any change to Proposition 13 will eventually mean higher taxes for homeowners.
 ''Any time you bring this up people start saying you're talking about overturning Proposition 13,'' Ms. Bestor said. ''That's not what this is about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); TAX REFORM (74%); GAS STATIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



788 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: The Rise and Fall of the G.D.P.

 BODY:
Jon Gertner's article on measuring well-being quoted me correctly as saying that the adverse impact of economic adversity on the social fabric goes well beyond the lost monetary income and endures much longer than joblessness itself. An unfortunate omission, however, left the impression that the underlying research was entirely my own, although I had made clear that it was not. 
 In fact, Prof. Jennie E. Brand of U.C.L.A. was the primary author of the path-breaking study that found (based on the lifetime experience of thousands of 1957 Wisconsin high-school graduates) that the negative effect of joblessness on a worker's participation in social and community life lasts for decades, even after the worker has found a job again.
 The damage is particularly great if the joblessness hits earlier in a worker's career. Brand's important work suggests that the real costs of the current recession will last long after the G.D.P. resumes growing. ROBERT D. PUTNAM Harvard Kennedy School Cambridge, Mass.
 In representing alternative-indicator research, Jon Gertner omitted the Genuine Progress Indicator (G.P.I.). This indicator assembles complex economic, social and environmental data into a framework for guiding policy decisions. It has well-understood strengths and weaknesses after being publicly vetted for more than 20 years. G.P.I. includes social and ecological elements of well-being ignored by G.D.P., and it has been applied in nearly 100 published estimates for nations, regions, counties and cities.
 Maryland recently introduced its own government-sponsored G.P.I., specifically designed to capture what G.D.P. misses. The Maryland G.P.I., developed through a multiagency partnership, includes an interactive online model to engage citizens in thinking about how to measure prosperity and evaluate policy.
 Meanwhile, the Gund Institute for Ecological Economics at the University of Vermont regularly reports G.P.I. estimates and is presently calculating the indicator for Iceland. As an active, promising approach to better measuring sustainable economic welfare, G.P.I. deserves a role in the dialogue. STEPHEN POSNER Energy Fellow, University of Vermont Office of Sustainability Burlington, Vt.
 In reading Jon Gertner's article, I could not help recalling a speech that Robert F. Kennedy (for whom I worked) gave shortly after announcing his presidential candidacy in 1968. As he pointed out back then: ''The gross national product does not allow for the health of our children, the quality of their education or the joy of their play. It does not include the beauty of our poetry or the strength of our marriages, the intelligence of our public debate or the integrity of our public officials. It measures neither our wit nor our courage, neither our wisdom nor our learning, neither our compassion nor our devotion to our country. It measures everything, in short, except that which makes life worthwhile. And it can tell us everything about America, except why we are proud that we are Americans.''
 More than 40 years later, perhaps we are finally recognizing that just because we measure something does not mean that it really matters. Thanks to the efforts described in Gertner's fascinating article, we seem to be on the verge at last of identifying those key national indicators that truly capture our essence as a nation. WILLIAM J. ARNONE Port Washington, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); RECESSION (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POETRY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); WRITERS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (53%) VERMONT, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



789 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Oasis Thrives In a Chicago Food Desert

BYLINE: By RACHEL CROMIDAS

 BODY:
Willie Montgomery and his well-worn Ford Crown Victoria have become an unlikely sign of progress in solving Chicago's long-standing problem of so-called food deserts. 
 Mr. Montgomery charges grocery shoppers up to $8 for rides home from the Food 4 Less, a full-service grocery store that opened four years ago in Englewood. He rests on a handicap cart at the front of the store, waiting for cashiers to send him shoppers who traveled there without a car.
Mr. Montgomery, a retiree who will not give his age, said patrons rode with him because they did not want to worry about having their grocery bags stolen on the bus, and because they couldn't buy what they needed from corner stores closer to home. They live in food deserts, poor areas that are dotted with vacant lots, dollar stores, and liquor marts, but bereft of fresh-food grocers.
 ''Shopping at a corner store is too expensive,'' said Shirley Slatton, a student at nearby Kennedy-King College, who had piled a half-dozen bags of food and toiletries into the trunk of Mr. Montgomery's car. ''And they don't sell stuff every day, so you have to check the dates on the cans to make sure you get fresh items.'' 
 When food deserts became a public-policy issue five years ago, few retailers had developed big stores in poor neighborhoods. Chad Broughton, a researcher at the University of Chicago, said shoppers felt getting to the stores would take too long and be unsafe. Although a few grocers have opened in city food deserts, it is still common for Chicagoans in some rough neighborhoods to travel several miles to buy produce. 
 But steady traffic and revenues at the 63,000-square-foot Food 4 Less at 7030 South Ashland Avenue -- as well as Mr. Montgomery's thriving transportation business -- are providing city officials and researchers with new clues about how far residents are willing to travel to stores and how much grocery chains are willing to spend to do business in poor neighborhoods.
 Food 4 Less's foray into Englewood also adds a new dimension to the political debate surrounding Wal-Mart's effort to build a second store within city limits. The giant retailer has submitted proposals for stores in Pullman Park and Chatham on the South Side, but those efforts have been stalled by negotiations with labor unions, which want workers to be paid more than the minimum wage. 
 Mr. Broughton, a senior lecturer at the university who just released a survey of food access in four South Side neighborhoods, including Englewood, said that the ideal grocery store for food-desert residents is a large, chain supermarket, because such stores can stock fresh food more readily than corner stores, and at lower prices.
 ''For residents the obvious answer is a big supermarket with inexpensive items and more variety,'' he said. If fresh produce does not sell before it rots, he added, ''then it's not profitable, and there isn't much incentive for corner stores to stock it.''
 But some community organizers balk at seeing profits and better-paying jobs leave their neighborhoods.
 ''To get into the grocery industry is probably one of the hardest things to do,'' said LaDonna Redmond, an urban farmer and founder of the Graffiti and Grub restaurant and community center in East Englewood. ''Aldi can purchase food and sell it for pennies on the dollar. Myself, if I open a grocery store, I can't move that kind of volume.'' 
 Ms. Redmond is a proponent of efforts to make fresh food more available, like accepting food stamps at farmers' markets and providing grants to help corner stores stock fresh produce. 
 ''If we have entrepreneurs from the community working with the community, I think we'd see something a little bit different,'' Ms. Redmond said. 
 As one of only two full-service grocery stores within the nine square miles of greater Englewood -- whose borders extend from 55th Street south to 75th Street, and from Western Avenue east to State Street -- the Food 4 Less benefits and suffers from doing business in a food and retail desert. The store boasts the third-highest profit margin of the 15 Food 4 Less outlets in the Chicago region, but also has the highest security expenses, said Carrie Cole, the store director. 
 Englewood is one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. In East Englewood, 43.8 percent of residents live below the federal poverty level, according to the Northeastern Illinois Planning Commission. In West Englewood, 32.1 percent live below the poverty level. The Chicago Police Department ranks East Englewood sixth and West Englewood eighth in robberies among city community areas. 
 Safety concerns ''limit the window in which people can feel comfortable going out and getting food if they don't have a car,'' Mr. Broughton said. ''People will re-arrange their work schedules just so that they can have a window during a safe time of day to get food.'' 
 But Ms. Cole said the relative success of the store sends a message that it can pay to develop in Chicago's low-income communities, which generally suffer most from a lack of fresh-food grocers. The store opened almost four years ago, and was followed by an Aldi store at 76th Street and Western Avenue.
 ''A lot of these stores do quite well because there's not a lot of competition,'' said Mari Gallagher, a food policy consultant and researcher who wrote a landmark study on Chicago food access in 2006 and a follow-up study in 2009. But the majority of areas labeled as food deserts by Ms. Gallagher's study do not mirror Englewood's growth. 
 ''These stores are really important for public health,'' Ms. Gallagher said, particularly because residents of communities without green grocers have higher risks of developing heart disease, cancer and kidney failure. ''But the grocer has to make a profit, too.'' She said the key for the city will be understanding what is going to help make the market place stronger and attract other types of stores. 
 The Englewood Food 4 Less sees close to 19,000 customers per week, Ms. Cole said, and each spends an average of $30 per visit. Those numbers have remained steady despite the recession. Although the company's corporate office did not respond to questions about average store traffic in the Chicago area, four other Food 4 Less outlets in various city neighborhoods said they attracted between 16,000 and 20,000 customers a week.
 Ms. Cole said that her store had done well because more people shop at discount food marts in hard times. ''The recession has done us a lot of justice,'' she said. ''We're probably one of the only chains to have seen an increase in sales.''
 That is encouraging for the city, which has been financing new programs to increase fresh-food options in food deserts since Ms. Gallagher's research group released its study on the correlation between residents' health risks and distance from grocery stores, said Chris Raguso, acting commissioner of Chicago's Department of Community Development. 
 The department has been giving grocers ''every incentive we possibly can,'' she said, to develop in these blighted areas by waiving required commercial inspections and streamlining the process for them to request building permits.
 ''It's no secret that it's an economic issue for grocery stores,'' she said, ''and it takes a long time to bring these large-scale developments into order.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Willie Montgomery offers rides to Food 4 Less customers for a fee. He waits by the store's front door for clients. For residents of West Englewood, the other grocery option is small corner stores with limited selections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); CITIES (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



790 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Follow My Logic? A Connective Word Takes the Lead

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
SO this is about the word ''so.''
 There, I did it. And if you speak English for work or pleasure, there is a fair chance that you've done it, too.
 ''So'' may be the new ''well,'' ''um,'' ''oh'' and ''like.'' No longer content to lurk in the middle of sentences, it has jumped to the beginning, where it can portend many things: transition, certitude, logic, attentiveness, a major insight.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, late last year: ''So it's not only because we believe that universal values support human rights being recognized and respected, but we think that it's in the best interest for economic growth and political stability. So we believe that.'' 
 A dispatch on National Public Radio last month, in which a quarter of the sentences began with ''so'': ''So it's, I think, the fifth largest in the nation. So, but now that's the population in general. So there are sort of two, there are two things that are circumstantial...''
 A quotation in a report last month from Channel NewsAsia, based in Singapore: ''So what we're doing is -- elephants have had these migratory routes, basically like islands connecting parks between each other; they've got nowhere to move and people have encroached on them.
 ''So we negotiate with the people to move from the land. So what we do, we buy the land, build them houses off the corridors and give them exactly the same amount of arable land back...''
 One can dredge up ancient instances of ''so'' as a sentence starter. In his 14th-century poem ''Troilus and Criseyde,'' Chaucer launched a verse with, ''So on a day he leyde him doun to slepe. ...'' But for most of its life, ''so'' has principally been a conjunction, an intensifier and an adverb.
 What is new is its status as the favored introduction to thoughts, its encroachment on the territory of ''well,'' ''oh,'' ''um'' and their ilk.
 So it is widely believed that the recent ascendancy of ''so'' began in Silicon Valley. The journalist Michael Lewis picked it up when researching his 1999 book ''The New New Thing'': ''When a computer programmer answers a question,'' he wrote, ''he often begins with the word 'so.' '' Microsoft employees have long argued that the ''so'' boom began with them.
 In the software world, it was a tic that made sense. In immigrant-filled technology firms, it democratized talk by replacing a world of possible transitions with a catchall. And ''so'' suggested a kind of thinking that appealed to problem-solving software types: conversation as a logical, unidirectional process -- if this, then that.
 This logical tinge to ''so'' has followed it out of software. Compared to ''well'' and ''um,'' starting a sentence with ''so'' uses the whiff of logic to relay authority. Whereas ''well'' vacillates, ''so'' declaims.
 To answer a question with ''so'' better suits the age, perhaps: an age in which a Google-glued generation can look it up, while their parents would have said ''I don't know''; in which Facebook and Twitter encourage ordinary people -- not just politicians -- to stay on message; in which we are gravitating toward declamatory blogs and away from down-the-middle reporting.
 ''So'' also echoes the creeping influence of science- and data-driven culture. It would have been unimaginable a few decades ago that ordinary people would quantify daily activities like eating, sex and sleeping, or that software would calculate what songs we will like.
 But in the algorithmic times that have come, ''so'' conveys an algorithmic certitude. It suggests that there is a right answer, which the evidence dictates and which must not be contradicted. Among its synonyms, after all, are ''consequently,'' ''thus'' and ''therefore.''
 And yet Galina Bolden, a linguistics scholar who has studied of recorded ordinary conversations and has written academic papers on the use of ''so,'' believes that ''so'' is also about the culture of empathy that is gaining steam as the world embraces the increasing complexity of human backgrounds and geographies.
 To begin a sentence with ''oh,'' she said in an e-mail message, is to focus on what you have just remembered and your own concerns. To begin with ''so,'' she said, is to signal that one's coming words are chosen for their relevance to the listener.
 The ascendancy of ''so,'' Dr. Bolden said, ''suggests that we are concerned with displaying interest for others and downplaying our interest in our own affairs.''
 ''So'' seems also to reflect our fraught relationship with time.
 Today we live in fragments. You may be reading this column while toggling among your cellphone, iPad and laptop while eating lunch and proofreading a report. In such a world, ''so'' defragments, with its promise that what is coming next follows what just came, said Michael Erard, the author of ''Um...: Slips, Stumbles, and Verbal Blunders, and What They Mean.''
 The rise of ''so,'' he said via e-mail, is ''another symptom that our communication and conversational lives are chopped up and discontinuous in actual fact, but that we try in several ways to sew them together -- or 'so' them together, as it were -- in order to create a continuous experience.''
 Perhaps we all live now in fear that a conversation could snap at any moment, could be interrupted by so many rival offerings. With ''so,'' we beg to be heard. We insist, time and again, that this is it; this is what you've been waiting to hear; this is the ''so'' moment.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARIAN BANTJES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); POETRY (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); WRITERS (62%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (56%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



791 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, May 30th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Saturday, May 15th 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List			 	 	 	1	1	2	SPOKEN FROM THE HEART, by Laura Bush. ($30 Scribner) A memoir from the former first lady.		 	 	 	2	2	9	THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. ($27.95 Norton) The people who saw the real estate crash coming and made billions from their foresight.		 	 	 	3	0	1	WAR, by Sebastian Junger. ($26.99 Twelve) The intense lives of American soldiers in a lethal corner of Afghanistan.		 	 	 	4	4	10	CHELSEA CHELSEA BANG BANG, by Chelsea Handler. ($25.99 Grand Central) More humorous personal essays from the comedian.		 	 	 	5	7	2	THE LAST STAND, by Nathaniel Philbrick. ($30 Viking) Custer, Sitting Bull and the Battle of the Little Big Horn.		 	 	 	6	8	2	---- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. ($15.99 It Books/HarperCollins) A coming-of-age memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author&#8217;s father.		 	 	 	7	0	1	STEINBRENNER, by Bill Madden. ($26.99 Harper/HarperCollins) A biography of the New York Yankees owner.		 	 	 	8	3	6	THIS TIME TOGETHER, by Carol Burnett. ($25 Harmony) The comedian describes her rise in show business and the people she&#8217;s met along the way.		 	 	 	9	0	1	CRISIS ECONOMICS, by Nouriel Roubini and Stephen Mihm. ($27.95 Penguin Press) How the global financial system broke down in 2008, and what may happen if new regulations are not embraced.		 	 	 	10	11	11	THE PACIFIC, by Hugh Ambrose. ($26.95 NAL Caliber) Stories of Marines and a Navy pilot during World War II; companion volume for an HBO mini-series.		 	 	 	11*	14	77	OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($27.99 Little, Brown) Why some people succeed, from the author of &#8220;Blink.&#8221;		 	 	 	12	6	5	OPRAH, by Kitty Kelley. ($30 Crown) The biography, from the author of &#34;Nancy Reagan&#34; and &#34;His Way.&#34;		 	 	 	13	0	1	OPERATION MINCEMEAT, by Ben Macintyre. ($25.99 Harmony) The British ruse that employed a corpse to fool the Nazis about the invasion of Sicily.		 	 	 	14	13	15	THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. ($26 Crown) The story of the woman whose cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951.		 	 	 	15	15	3	THE OTHER WES MOORE, by Wes Moore. ($25 Spiegel &#38; Grau) A tale of two Wes Moores living in Baltimore: one, the author, a Rhodes scholar, combat veteran and former White House fellow; the other, a man serving a life sentence in prison.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BASEBALL (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); WORLD WAR II (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (53%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010



792 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
 Earlier today, British Petroleum began this operation known as ''top kill,'' which comes on the heels of their previous operations, ''fish kill'' and ''bird kill.'' 
 In Idaho, Republican Congressional candidate Vaughn Ward is in trouble after he was caught plagiarizing a famous speech by Barack Obama. When they asked this guy if he thought he could get away with this, you know what he said? ''Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!''
 DAVID LETTERMAN
 You starting to get sick about the economy again? I was talking to my broker today. And he said: ''Don't worry. Everything's going to be fine.'' Then the prison guards took him away.
 British Petroleum is now saying the oil spill was caused by a bad underwater cement job. You don't have that problem with the mob.
 JIMMY FALLON
 On Saturday, Hillary Clinton passed out teddy bears to children in China. That was a nice break for the children from their job of making teddy bears.
 The White House is backing a new plan to repeal ''Don't ask, don't tell.'' They want to relax the harsh standard and implement their new policy called ''Just Try Not To Make It Super Obvious, Gary.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Jack Ohman: The Oregonian, Tribune Media Services
Signe Wilkinson: Philadelphia Daily News, Washington Post Writers Group
 Matt Davies: The Journal News, Tribune Media Services 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL SPILLS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PLAGIARISM (71%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (54%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (58%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (58%); BP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAY LENO (74%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010



793 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Putting Substance In Bank Ratings

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Are the nation's largest banks too big to downgrade? Laws to tackle the too-big-to-fail problem are supposed to force Bank of America, Citigroup and other financial firms to stand on their own feet. But at least for a while, bank credit ratings in the United States will continue to factor in government backing.
 The biggest institutions received a boost in 2008 when the government stepped in to stabilize the sector. Rating agencies like Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service responded by raising banks' ratings -- relative to what was justified on fundamentals alone -- to reflect increased government support. Bank of America's ratings, for example, remain five notches higher on the Moody's scale than they would be without government backing. 
 That made some sense at the time. But now financial reform legislation, and specifically plans to facilitate the winding-down of failing institutions, could upend the government-as-savior assumption. S.& P. and Moody's plan to review the legislation once it is in final form and figure out whether banks really are on their own from here.
 It may be that they eventually decide that big financial firms still benefit from implicit government support, if perhaps to a lesser degree. But in the future as in the past, this is a heavily political calculation, not a quantitative one.
 Of course, the rating agencies were right about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Their strong headline ratings, which assumed implicit government backing, comforted debt buyers for years -- and proved justified when the government did bail them out. But by relegating the two firms' stand-alone ratings to the small print, the raters encouraged investors in general, and perhaps politicians too, to turn a blind eye to the two mortgage finance giants' excessive leverage, which is now costing taxpayers dearly.
 For financial institutions to rely on government support isn't healthy. Moreover, doing so now comes with outsize political baggage. If rating agencies continue to believe bailouts could happen, they should make that clearer to investors by putting greater emphasis on the financial firms' stand-alone ratings. Better yet, perhaps any rating with a built in too-big-to-fail assumption should come with a ''G for government'' health warning.
 Risorgimento
 The European Union has rarely looked so united. The disparate members have joined up to mount a strong defense of the region's single currency. But the union has also never looked so close to dissolution, divided by tensions between more and less fiscally responsible and economically successful countries. The fate of the union could follow either of two historical precedents with starkly different outcomes.
 Exactly 150 years ago, Giuseppe Garibaldi started to besiege Palermo. The city was the capital of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, which had lasted in roughly the same form for almost six centuries. Most of the establishment at the time, including the pope and Emperor Napoleon III of France, dismissed the notion of an Italian nation.
 The romantic nationalist Garibaldi proved them wrong. Italy was unified under the Turin-based king of Sardinia. Huge regional differences in history, economy and culture have been diminished by the flow of people from south to north and of government money and bureaucracy in the other direction. The unified Italy has survived and prospered.
 The less optimistic precedent is Yugoslavia. An expansion of the Kingdom of Serbia, the country was created after the First World War. Strong Slavic ethnic identity made it only slightly less likely to succeed as a nation than Italy. And Yugoslavia's disparate peoples seemed on the path to unity for most of the following six decades.
 But everything fell apart quickly 30 years ago, after the May 1980 death of Tito. Without Yugoslavia's longstanding autocratic leader, the Serbian nationalism that had supposedly been crushed proved a potent divisive and destructive force.
 Over all, the last two millennia of European history look more Yugoslav than Italian. But the last half-century has been more Italian, helped by the increasingly free movement of ideas, money and people.
 For the future, much depends on the region's collective memory, a term coined by Maurice Halbwachs, a French -- or is that European? -- sociologist. Europeans may choose to read their history as an inevitable movement toward unity. If they do that, Athens and Berlin may prove no more distant than Palermo and Turin.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Josip Broz Tito, the autocrat who ruled Yugoslavia, died in May 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



794 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Cleanup Draws Critics Over Speed and Care

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN and JAMES C. McKINLEY JR.

 BODY:
PORT FOURCHON, La. -- By dawn, the beach here looks like the staging area for a B-movie invasion. 
 As semi rigs unload equipment and dozens of all-terrain vehicles buzz up and down the sand, young men in blinding white protective suits listlessly shovel globs of rust-colored oil in the heat.
 Operations here are just the forward tip of a growing army of cleanup workers, already thousands strong, that is advancing along hundreds of miles of Louisiana shoreline to combat the oily sludge that began washing up heavily here about two weeks ago. 
 Yet the cleanup effort is drawing some criticism as it unfolds on the beaches, in the bayous and in the marshes. 
 Environmentalists accuse workers of running roughshod over wildlife and delicate grasses. Conversely, state and local officials are worried that the crews are not doing enough, fast enough. And most agree that the effort has been wildly uneven.
 Here in Port Fourchon, vehicles have not only flattened sand dunes, one of the few lines of defense against erosion by the gulf waves, but have also plowed through nesting sites of the least tern.
 ''There is a lot of collateral damage out there,'' said C. Cathy Norman, who manages the nine-mile beachfront here and 35,000 acres of marshland behind it for a local trust. 
 At other points along the Louisiana coast, some officials complained that the companies hired by BP, which bears heavy responsibility for the cleanup, were not adequately supervising their workers.
 On the western end of Grand Isle, where crews filled thousands of bags with oily debris before President Obama's visit on Friday, local residents cited a dead dolphin that had been buried rather than removed and about a dozen large redfish, dead and still covered with oil, that had been thrown into the grasslands.
 All dead wildlife are supposed to be bagged and counted. But local officials said incidents like the tossed redfish are perhaps unavoidable in such a large undertaking done mostly by a newly hired and quickly trained labor force.
 Cleanup workers on the beach the day the president arrived declined requests for interviews, saying they had been instructed not to speak to reporters. ''I need this job,'' explained one man who asked not to be named. 
 Some local officials complained about delays in the crews' arrival. In Plaquemines Parish, home to the Mississippi River Delta, the companies hired by BP to clean up the marshes have been slow to respond, sometimes waiting a week to 10 days after oil has been spotted in the marshes to attack the problem, officials there said. 
 And where they have acted, the workers have at times trampled on flora and fauna as they deployed large absorbent pads to sop up the oil, the parish president, Billy Nungesser, said in an interview.
 ''I classify it as a sloppy cleanup,'' he said. 
 Some other parish leaders echoed his criticisms. In Terrebonne Parish, oil has fouled the delicate marshes on Timbalier Bay, Lake Felicity and Lake Barre, which are important spawning grounds for brown shrimp.
 ''Not only was the response not adequate, but the cleanup wasn't adequate,'' the parish president, Michel Claudet, said. ''The oil goes into the marsh, and they would send 15 guys in who would trample on the marsh to get it out.''
 But Mr. Claudet said contractors working for BP stepped up the number of cleanup crews working in his region late last week, recruiting unemployed people in Houma and New Orleans for $12 an hour. The response time is improving, he said. 
 He also welcomed the assignment of a Coast Guard officer to each parish last week to be a go-between with BP, saying it had helped improve coordination.
 BP and the Coast Guard say that their biggest challenge is explaining to eager and desperate residents why some oil is being left instead of being mopped up.
 ''We are walking a real fine line between getting the oil removed and irreversibly harming the environment,'' said Rear Adm. James Watson, a deputy federal on-scene commander.
 The National Audubon Society, which owns beachfront property west of Port Fourchon, recently posted signs warning contractors not to act without its approval, said Paul Kemp, a vice president of the group. ''We hope that will forestall the zealous cleanup folks from working without supervision.'' 
 Dr. Kemp said he hoped the size and inaccessibility of many of the marshes would protect them. ''The only saving grace is that they can't get to most of the beaches,'' he said of the workers.
 But that is changing swiftly, too. On Saturday, in response to criticisms from eager parishes, Doug Suttles, BP's chief operating officer for exploration and production, announced that they hoped to move 2,200 workers into the more inaccessible areas of the marsh using tent camp bases and floating hotels.
 ''It's scary,'' said Angelina Freeman, a coastal scientist with the Environmental Defense Fund who has been making boat inspections off the marsh area off Pass a Loutre. ''You are seeing lots of wildlife disturbance.''
 Some environmentalists assert that BP's contractors seem more worried about giving the appearance of cleaning up than about cataloging the damage and taking care not to disturb the ecosystem more than necessary. 
 ''The larger reason for these efforts seems to be to make it seem that they are doing everything they can,'' said Joseph Smyth, a spokesman for Greenpeace, ''when, tragically, there isn't much that can be done to clean up a spill of this size and nature.''
 The avoidable damage is what bothers Ms. Norman, the beachfront manager.
 She has brought in her brother, Don Norman, a wildlife toxicologist, to evaluate the harm that the oil and the cleanup are doing to birds here. 
 He said he had seen the all-terrain vehicles that roam up and down the beach spin through nesting colonies and had even witnessed the occupants honking at baby Wilson's plovers for fun.
 ''Nesting season will be over soon,'' he said, sighing. ''And that is a good thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: C. Cathy Norman, who manages the beach at Port Fourchon, La., for a local trust, and Don Norman, a wildlife toxicologist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BICKFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LABOR FORCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ANIMALS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



795 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: An Old-Money Magazine Starts to Chase New Money

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Promoting $29,000 diamond and rubellite cuffs and $30,000 Louis XVI gueridons (a very expensive sort of side table), Town & Country magazine may seem to have gavotted through the recession.
 But as society chroniclers know, appearances can be deceiving.
 According to GfK Mediamark Research & Intelligence, the main demographics research firm for magazines, Town & Country's readers have a median annual income of just $61,614, putting it just ahead of readers of Dirt Rider, but trailing Good Housekeeping, Cooking With Paula Deen and Four Wheeler.
 Editorially, the Hearst magazine has never won an award from the American Society of Magazine Editors, and the last time it was nominated was 1999. Its newsstand sales dropped about 36 percent from 2005 to 2009. 
 The magazine relies on luxury ads, and it took a beating as many luxury companies halted print advertising. Its ad pages fell 45.6 percent from 2008 to 2009, worse than almost any other luxury magazine, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. 
 So Stephen Drucker, who became Town & Country's editor in chief in April, is considering whether the magazine should throw off its St. John knits for a Tory Burch tunic. 
 It once covered a clearly defined world of high society. But now the wealthy include TV reality stars and Google entrepreneurs. People look to celebrities rather than to oil heiresses for fashion inspiration, and to Wikipedia rather than Emily Post for etiquette. 
 That leaves Mr. Drucker with the task of not only reflecting a widening world of society, but also making people care about a stratum that seems to have become largely irrelevant.
 ''Everyone is following a different leader,'' Mr. Drucker said over lunch on the 44th floor of the Hearst Tower. ''There's so much money now, there's so much other money, that all eyes are not on old money the way it was.''
 ''Someone sitting in Silicon Valley, sitting on a billion of Google stock and wearing a T-shirt and jeans, has a different role model than Lloyd Blankfein in a bespoke suit,'' he said. ''They can all coexist. It's about showing you all the possibilities.''
 If that's the case, though, the magazine Mr. Drucker inherited hardly reflects that. Pamela Fiori edited it for 17 years, and added more racial diversity, celebrities and philanthropic coverage. 
 Still, though, Town & Country seems to be a primer for the thin-lipped woman who can ably discuss topics like Lee Krasner's paintings and Cote d'Azur spas. But the information is presented without much passion or humor, the magazine equivalent of a polite but chilly air kiss. 
 Its attempts at modernity can be stilted. In its latest issue, the magazine looks at Casey Johnson, a Johnson & Johnson heiress. Ms. Johnson, who died suddenly at 30, was charged with breaking into a friend's apartment and stealing her clothes; her death was lamented on Twitter by Tila Tequila, her reality-star fiancee. 
 For Town & Country, though, the story was not the scandal but the chance to compare her to Doris Duke and Barbara Hutton; the article is accompanied by lyrics to ''Poor Little Rich Girl,'' a 1925 hit by Noel Coward. 
 That adherence to tradition appeals to some readers. ''There is still some semblance of decency -- even if the story is sensational, there's no sensationalism about it,'' said Steven Stolman, a creative director at the preppy footwear company Jack Rogers and a longtime reader. 
 For others, though, Town & Country can seem dated.
 ''I grew up in the projects, so it was one of those what's-on-the-other-side, fantasy-type things, especially during the '80s,'' said Sabrina Messenger, a receptionist in Corvallis, Ore. But, she said, society has changed since then. ''It used to be a designer outfit really meant something, and now anybody can go buy a Prada handbag that's a knockoff and pass it off as real. It doesn't seem to matter anymore,'' she said. 
 ''Society is shifting,'' said Christine Schiwietz, a visiting assistant professor in the sociology department at Georgetown University. ''It's opened access to a wider array of people.''
 Mr. Drucker says he wants the magazine to reflect that.
 So will Town & Country include people like the ''Real Housewives of Orange County''? While it may not cover them per se, Mr. Drucker said, ''how can it not be interesting? Those people are living out loud and having a ball. The American relationship to money is very complicated, this idea that it comes with shame. Not everyone shares that.'' 
 What about, say, Olivia Palermo or Tinsley Mortimer, women who have parlayed their reputations as socialites to land reality-show roles?
 ''I'm not leaving anyone out,'' he said. ''It's not about judgment; it's about saying, 'This is worth noting, or observing.' ''
 And what about Town & Country's party pages, which chronicle society benefits? ''I can't wait to get my hands on those party pages. What could be more fun?'' Mr. Drucker said. ''It's only boring if you only define a party as someone who lives in 10021 going to the Armory to celebrate an established charity.'' 
 Still, he said, Town & Country was not going to become so modern as to be sarcastic, like, say, the social blog Guest of a Guest.
 ''To just say someone threw a drink in someone's face at a bar, at the Boom Boom Room?'' he said, wrinkling his nose. ''No, no.''
 As the editorial side gets more inclusive, the business side is pushing Town & Country's elitism.
 Jim Taylor, its publisher and vice president, challenges the household-income numbers from GfK Mediamark, the research house that does for magazines what Nielsen does for television, providing standardized demographic data on who is reading what magazine. 
 ''Any upscale magazine gets mismeasured,'' Mr. Taylor said, arguing that because MRI uses an in-person survey to measure readership, few rich people are inclined to participate, and the Town & Country numbers are way off. According to Town & Country's own research, the average household income of its readers is $306,932. 
 Julian Baim, chief research officer of Mediamark, acknowledges that some readers are wealthy. He says that more than 28 percent of respondents in the current study live in households with incomes of more than $100,000. 
 Whether it's the Mediamark numbers or the wariness of luxury advertisers, Town & Country has not quite bounced back from its bad 2009. Advertising pages dropped 14.7 percent in the first quarter compared with a year earlier, a steeper decline than the industry average of a 9.4 percent drop. Ad pages in May are up 40.3 percent, the magazine said, although pages in June are down 10.6 percent.
 Pamela Baxter, the president and chief executive of LVMH Perfumes and Cosmetics and president of Christian Dior, said that while it might have a mixed audience, Town & Country readers seem to buy expensive items.
 ''Whatever percent of their readers that can afford a product are very responsive,'' she said. 
 Still, she said, she was eager to see some changes.
 ''It's good for them to evolve it and push the envelope a bit more, and make it more of a must-read with a younger feel,'' Ms. Baxter said.
 ''It's majestic,'' Mr. Drucker said, describing Town & Country's legacy and future, but ''even a duchess can tell a joke sometimes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cover from 2004, above, and one from 2010 show little evidence of an editorial shift, despite the huge loss of luxury advertising in 2009. (B1)
 Stephen Drucker, seated, became Town & Country's editor in April. He recently met with Billy Norwich, a correspondent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); NEWSSTANDS (71%); PAINTING (65%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); GOOGLE INC (56%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: PAULA DEEN (55%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



796 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1923 words

HEADLINE: Padlocking the Gates to the Great Outdoors

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY, KIRK JOHNSON, RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
In these hard economic times, when much of the country could use a walk in the woods or a night in the mountains or a wade in the river or a picnic by the lake, states across the country seem to be creating obstacles to the great outdoors.
 Seeking to streamline their budgets, states have made their parks easy targets. Campgrounds are closing, fees are increasing, employees have been laid off.
 In Colorado, some parks are down to one lone ranger. In Massachusetts, a few swimming ponds are closed for lack of lifeguards. Washington has started asking motorists to donate to state parks when they register their cars; Michigan will do so this fall.
 Georgia is considering corporate sponsorships for its parks. In Idaho, a motorcycle group offered to mow the grass at a state park on the Snake River where it holds an annual reunion. 
 Some see a silver lining with the rising volunteerism and the public outcry that have helped keep parks open in many states. Others wonder what will come by next Memorial Day.
 ''Right now,'' said Virginia Painter, a spokeswoman for Washington State Parks, which has seen revenue from the new vehicle registration donations fail to meet projections, ''we're hanging on.''
 For One Last Ranger, An Expanding Duty List IDALIA, Colo.
 If visitors to Bonny Lake State Park ask why nearly half the campground sites are closed this summer and camping costs are up to 20 percent more per night, the answer is political: money dried up in the state's budget crunch. But for most other questions that might arise, the answer is personal: Bob Shade.
 Mr. Shade is this 5,000-acre park's lone-ranger, last-man-standing employee.
 Bonny Lake, a reservoir in eastern Colorado on the south fork of the Republican River, is the only park Mr. Shade, a senior ranger, has ever worked at in his 24 years with the state. Now in many ways, he is the park, since his three co-workers were eliminated last fall - part of a 7.5 percent budget cut at Colorado State Parks. The number of seasonal local employees he can hire for the summer was cut as well.
 Those once well-trimmed areas on the lake's edge that are returning to nature with weedy grass and tree seedlings in sprout? Mr. Shade no longer has time to mow. The somewhat uneven dirt road around the lake? Mr. Shade admits to a learning curve in teaching himself how to operate the park's road grader over the winter - a task, like so many others here, once handled by somebody else. The little bookstore in the visitor center, now devoid of books? The paperwork was one task too many in Mr. Shade's juggling act.
 ''You try to do the best you can with the resources you have,'' said Mr. Shade, 48, a tall, slow-talking man, weathered by his many years outdoors. But he also feels a huge pressure, he said, because he loves this place of rolling hills on the state's eastern edge near the border with Kansas.
 He came here in 1987 on his first assignment, met and married a woman from a local farm family, raised three sons and put down roots. ''I take this park personally,'' he said. ''I don't want to disappoint anybody.''
 He even plans to sleep in the visitors center two or three nights a week, to be ready for any emergency that might arise - like, say, a boat rescue on the lake. It is just easier, he said, to be on his air mattress and ready to go than to be 30 minutes away at home with his wife, Margaret.
 So where does he plan to sleep?
 ''In my office,'' he replied. ''Or my boss's old office. I can take which office I want. I have choices.''
 Volunteering for Duty To Keep a Party Spot Open WENDELL, Idaho
 When the 300 members of Brother Speed rumble up to the expansive lawn at Niagara Springs State Park here each Memorial Day weekend, they are careful where they rest their Harley-Davidsons.
 ''We park on the side,'' said Troy Henne, 39, a member for eight years. ''We never ride on the grass.''
 Until now.
 Jarred into public service by the stark economy, the members of the Brother Speed Motorcycle Club have volunteered to dismount and climb into the seats of riding mowers every Wednesday this summer to cut the grass at Niagara Springs.
 ''It's a lot of work,'' said one gruff member, who identified himself only as Ricky, 49. ''But they're big riding mowers, so it's pretty fun, too.''
 For more than three decades, Brother Speed has culminated one of the West's most notorious motorcycle runs with a loud, long party here between the canyon walls cut by the Snake River. This year, the State of Idaho finally decided the good times had to end. It was not, however, because several members of Brother Speed are convicted felons or because people can hear the party for miles down the river.
 Idaho, reeling like so many other states from a steep budget deficit, proposed saving money on maintenance by closing several parks along the Snake, including Niagara Springs. And that is why Brother Speed, not known for generous civic acts, is opening a whole new throttle. Now the park is staying open, the party goes on and Brother Speed is suddenly encountering newfound respectability.
 On Saturday, the bikers were the guests of honor at a picnic hosted by Mayor Brad Christopherson in Wendell, a tiny farming town next to Niagara Springs that has come to count on their patronage.
 ''I grew up here,'' said Mr. Christopherson, 47, who was elected last fall, ''and it was always quite exciting as a kid to see this big group of 200 to 300 bikers come to town.''
 Of course, the welcome is not warm everywhere. The Idaho Department of Correction says at least seven members of Brother Speed are either in prison or on parole, most for dealing or possessing methamphetamine.
 ''The fact that they're mowing a lawn,'' said Jeff Ray, a spokesman for the department, ''should not lead us to have a perception that that is not so.''
 The bikers insist that they are harmless and dismiss claims that they are a gang. At least one state agency, the Idaho Department of Parks and Recreation, appears to have no problem with them.
 ''They're good folks,'' said Jennifer Wernex, a spokeswoman for the department. ''They clean up after themselves. We're very, very thankful they've stepped up.''
 Beyond mowing, Brother Speed has planted trees and upgraded the wiring at Niagara Springs so bands can perform there. Nick Stock, who builds custom bikes, pointed out that there is another advantage to having motorcyclists around: many are obsessive tinkerers. His father, a longtime member who has helped mow, was struck by the worn state-owned landscaping equipment.
 So, Mr. Stock said, ''he fixed all the weed eaters.''
 Public Effort Averts Death for a Mystical Place SEDONA, Ariz.
 Red Rock State Park does not technically contain any of the famed ''vortexes'' said to emanate spiritual energy around here.
 But, watching the shifting hues as the sun moves over the craggy, sandstone formations etched by ancient seas, visitors and volunteers like Brenda Robinson swear they feel some harmonic bonding .
 ''If you don't feel something, you must be dead,'' Ms. Robinson said, walking the trails she helps maintain. ''If you want to call it a vortex, you should be able to.''
 Yes, it is easy to see why this is considered a mystical place. But it is also subject to an earthly bottom line.
 The park is still recovering from its near-death experience brought on by a state budget spiraling down into the abyss.
 Benefactors of the 286-acre park and its lush, riparian habitat solicited donations outside markets; begged friends to open wallets; held raffles, silent auctions and a barbecue fund-raiser; and leaned on civic leaders to raise $60,000 in contributions.
 Coupled with about $30,000 from Yavapai County and $15,000 pledged by the City of Sedona, they were able to put off the June closing date until October.
 Arizona's deteriorating finances took a brutal toll on four parks, which closed. The remaining 23, including 14 that like Red Rock were on the chopping block, won a reprieve through a patchwork of temporary financing from nonprofit organizations, local communities and the state.
 Still, in the past year the paid staff here has declined to four from seven. A vacation home built by some previous owners of the land, an airline company president and his wife, sits like a relic of better times, fenced off and in disrepair. One of the two large picnic areas has been closed, along with composting restrooms on the trails.
 Volunteers help replace bridges that wash out in spring flooding, do the painting and lead the numerous visiting school groups to the ancient petroglyphs that adorn some cliffs.
 In short, it is a bittersweet story here of local residents pooling their energy to save a treasure, but fretting that in the long run their drive may not be enough. They must raise an additional $50,000 to keep the park open through June 2011.
 Mary Ambrose came away charged - and not just from the $10 admission fee.
 ''Sedona has an aura,'' said Ms. Ambrose, a retiree from California. ''It would be a tragedy if it closed, especially for the younger generation. They need to experience this.''
 Shutdown, Deterioration, And Then a Reprieve VOORHEESVILLE, N.Y.
 The gates were padlocked. The picnic tables were half-buried in uncut grass. Big red ''closed'' signs were posted at the trail heads. Old leaves clotted by the women's room doors. The men's rooms were littered with beer cans.
 These unwelcoming scenes at John Boyd Thacher State Park about three hours north of New York City offered a grim reminder of the financial crisis that has paralyzed the state government for months. Thacher was one of 41 state parks (of a total 178) and 14 historic sites (of 35) that were shut in an effort to save money as the state faced a $9.2 billion budget deficit.
 A popular site of striking geological formations, hiking trails and natural beauty in the highlands west of Albany, Thacher suffered from neglect as well as the uncertainty of when it would reopen. Employees were redeployed. Rental deposits for pavilions were refunded. Weddings and reunions were relocated.
 The whole situation so infuriated Tim Gordon, the independent assemblyman who represents the area, that about two weeks ago, he hauled out his 21-inch Lawn Boy push mower and began cutting the grass himself. Yes, television cameras happened to be on hand.
 Finally, on Friday afternoon, with the Memorial Day weekend under way, the Legislature seemed to remember a basic rule of politics - if taxpayers cannot take the kids to a park, sizzle some burgers and toss the Frisbee on a holiday, they might just take a big old fly swatter to the polls in November.
 Lawmakers did not settle the entire budget, but they agreed to other cuts (and increases in some fees) and came up with the necessary $11 million to reopen most of the parks by Saturday. Employees were immediately recalled to start cutting the grass and unlocking the gates.
 Eileen Larrabee, a spokeswoman for the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, said she was relieved to get the green light. ''We're in the business of running the parks,'' she said, ''not closing them.''
 One part of Thacher - the parking lot atop the cliffs - remained open and free throughout the budget haggling. ''You can see a lot of mileage,'' an impressed Johnny Bradigan, 25, a Web producer, said as he took in the view that stretches from the Mohawk and Hudson River Valleys to the Green Mountains of Vermont. ''We're right here, the scenery is great and the price is right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keeping Bonny State Park running has been left almost entirely to Bob Shade, a senior ranger, since a budget reduction forced Colorado State Parks to scale back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Brother Speed Motorcycle Club holds its annual rally at Niagara Springs State Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD CASE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Access to the formations at Red Rock State Park in Arizona was almost a budget casualty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Assemblyman Tim Gordon made a point two weeks ago at John Boyd Thacher State Park. MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (91%); CAMPING (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); LAKES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); BOOKSTORES (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%); MOTORCYCLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



797 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: TV via Cellphone Coming to the U.S. and Europe

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- When South Korea plays Greece on June 12 in its World Cup soccer opener in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, life will not necessarily grind to a halt back in Seoul.
 Many fans will instead follow a live broadcast of the match on their mobile phones. In South Korea, free-to-air mobile TV is a five-year-old fact of life. According to the country's broadcasters, 27 million people -- 56 percent of the population -- watch regularly.
While South Koreans are the world leaders in mobile TV viewing, the technology is also catching on in China, southeast Asia, India, Africa and Latin America, where 80 million people now have cellphones that can receive free, live TV broadcasts. 
 ''There have been a lot of hype cycles with mobile TV technology,'' said Anna Maxbauer, an analyst at IMS Research in Austin, Texas. ''But with recent advances in battery life, and consumer acceptance, there is real potential for widespread viewing.''
 At least 40 million people are watching live TV this year on mobile phones, Ms. Maxbauer said. Most live in emerging markets where operators, which prefer to sell TV programming for a fee through their wireless networks, do not control the sale of handsets.
 Free, on-the-go viewing is common just about everywhere except the United States and Europe, where operator resistance and a maze of conflicting technical standards and program licensing hurdles have kept the technology out of the global mainstream.
 But that may be about to change, according to one handset maker.
 ''This technology has huge potential,'' said Hankil Yoon, the vice president of product strategy at Samsung, the South Korean electronics maker and U.S. cellphone market leader. ''Our experience shows that people like watching TV on mobile phones, even on smaller screens. And they like watching it for free. It is only a matter of time before this goes global.''
 In the complex world of wireless communication, free-to-air mobile TV technology is relatively simple. With a tiny receiver chip and telescoping antenna, a mobile phone can receive free digital or analog programming like any other television. 
 In South Korea, 25 million people watch free digital terrestrial broadcasts on mobile handsets and two million pay to subscribe to satellite programming, according to Korean broadcasters. The typical screen made by Samsung is a three-inch, or 7.6-centimeter, diagonal. Batteries support three to six hours of viewing. In Korea, free mobile TV broadcasts are interspersed with ads.
 ''In the markets where people use this, we have found that viewing tends to be pretty high,'' said Diana Jovin, a vice president for corporate marketing and business development at Telegent Systems, the leading mobile TV chip maker, which is based in Sunnyvale, California. 
 Telegent is shipping about 750,000 chips each month to handset makers, most designed for viewing analog broadcasts in markets like Brazil, Peru, Argentina, Russia, Nigeria, Thailand, Egypt and China. Brazil is one of Telegent's biggest markets. 
 In Rio de Janiero, Marcelo Mendonca Guimaraes, a 42-year-old taxi driver, said he watched local and national TV news on his mobile handset through his operator, Claro.
 ''My analog TV phone gives me the opportunity to watch television news while I'm waiting for a fare, or when I am on a break,'' Mr. Guimaraes said. ''I actually have a digital TV in my cab, but I prefer to use the phone. The reception is much better.''
 Following a favorite team or soap opera on a cellphone may take longer to reach Western markets, where broadcasters and wireless operators have been slow to embrace the technology. In the United States and Europe, where operators tend to control what technology goes into handsets, a major hurdle to free-to-air broadcasting is, ironically, that it is free. 
 That offers no incentive to operators focused on raising revenue per customer.
 ''Ask anybody if they want to watch free TV on their phone. Everybody is going to want to say sure,'' said Jim Oehlerking, the senior director for mobile TV business development at Motorola. ''The challenge is getting the mobile media marketplace to the point where content owners, carriers and broadcasters work out a business model.''
 But with the level of data traffic surging on wireless networks around the world, some operators are beginning to look to free-to-air mobile TV -- which operates independently and adds no additional traffic burden on an operator's network -- as a way to retain customers.
 In April, 12 broadcasters and television content owners in the United States, including Fox, NBC, Gannett Broadcasting, Hearst and Cox Media, formed a joint venture to pool their broadcasting spectrum and eventually deliver mobile TV to 150 million people.
 ''We are excited about building a platform that makes mobile television universally available and economically viable,'' Jack Abernethy, the chief executive of Fox Television Stations, said at the time of the announcement. ''This venture is the first step in forging cross-industry and company partnerships to deliver content to consumers.''
 The U.S. effort is in its initial stages, and no deadlines have been set for adoption.
 Samsung, which includes mobile TV chips as standard technology in its high-end smartphones in South Korea, is making a handset for Sprint that works on the U.S. mobile broadcast standard, ATSC-M/H. Samsung also makes a DVB-H phone for Europe, two that work on Latin America's ISDB-T standard and an analog handset for Southeast Asia.
 On May 24, Sprint and nine broadcasters in the Washington-Baltimore area began a four-month trial that will broadcast programming to mobile phones, netbook computers and portable DVD players made by Samsung, LG Electronics and Dell.
 Dave Lougee, the president of Gannett Broadcasting, said the organizers of the trial, a group of 900 U.S. television stations called the Open Mobile Video Coalition, were hopeful consumers would take to the technology. 
 The trial is being supported by every facet of the U.S. television industry, including content owners, broadcasters, broadcast equipment makers and advertisers, represented by the Television Bureau of Advertisers and The Ad Council.
 ''We are looking forward to hearing how consumers use the technology,'' Mr. Lougee said in announcing the trial. 
 If South Korea is a guide, U.S. consumers will use it just as much, if the price is right.
 This is the more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In South Korea, mobile TV has been available for the past five years. A trial is under way in the Washington area offering TV on certain cellphones, portable DVD players and netbooks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOOHAE CHO FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); MOBILE MEDIA (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (72%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); GREECE (88%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



798 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Wild and the Tamed

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
The choreographer Christopher Wheeldon has the trick of making New York City Ballet's audience happy. He served as the company's resident choreographer for most of the last decade. On Saturday night, returning to choreograph for City Ballet for the first time in two years, he gave it a world premiere that brought many to their feet in a full-throated ovation.
 Afterward it was hard to remember anything special about the new work, ''Estancia.'' Agreeably, efficiently, with both charm and freshness, it courts a number of cliches. But they aren't cliches associated with either Mr. Wheeldon or City Ballet, who rub the staleness off old formulas. 
 Mr. Wheeldon keeps presenting himself as an apprentice. He's always tackling idioms, scores, subjects that extend him in new directions. Though ''Estancia'' is one of his most old-fashioned creations, the kinds of characterization and storytelling he undertakes in it are plainly lessons he wants to learn and share with these dancers. The setting is the Argentine pampas. The city-boy hero finds himself amid a rural community where horses (played by dancers) are tamed. He's immediately drawn to a country girl who can tame horses as he can't. He learns horses; she learns him; happy ending. A number of ballets created over the last 80 years came to mind while watching it -- all of them by other choreographers for other companies.
 The designs are by the architect Santiago Calatrava. Although he is being presented as the dominant artist of the current Architecture of Dance season, this is only his second contribution. And what's curious here is that he doesn't give us architecture. For this old-fashioned ballet he gives us good old painted scenery. Really good: on a first viewing, his decors are the work's loveliest ingredient. The main scene is a wide landscape, beautifully evoking the greens of the pampas, its distant horizon and broad sky. 
 Carlos Campos puts the horse dancers in brown costumes, with tails, that simply evoke the animals' heads and legs. There are harnesses for the horse-breaking scenes, and rods to suggest fences around the pastures.
 Mr. Wheeldon, Mr. Calatrava and Mr. Campos take their cues from the score, ''Estancia,'' by the Argentine composer Alberto Ginastera. It's curious to discover that this in turn was commissioned in 1941 by none other than Lincoln Kirstein, a founder of City Ballet. George Balanchine, the other founder, never choreographed ''Estancia.'' Now Mr. Wheeldon makes amends by staging the ballet Kirstein surely had in mind all along.
 Though the bucking-bronco theme onstage recalls Agnes de Mille's ballet ''Rodeo,'' Ginastera's music is nothing like Aaron Copland's for ''Rodeo.'' (De Mille choreographed ''Rodeo'' in 1942; on the strength of it she was hired for the 1943 musical ''Oklahoma!'') Yet Ginastera works as hard as Copland to establish local color. I look forward to hearing again the luscious sonorities and fluent melodic lines of the music's South America. (On Saturday there was fine orchestral playing, conducted with panache by Clotilde Otranto; the score has some especially striking percussion dimensions.) Mr. Wheeldon is following the original scenario, which Ginastera based on ''El Gaucho Martin Fierro'' (1873), a narrative poem by Jose Hernandez that defends the wild gaucho way of life against the civilized manners of city folk.
 Mr. Wheeldon brings together here Tiler Peck and Tyler Angle as the Country Girl and City Boy. Ms. Peck wears point shoes that are powdered down to remove any shine. (You know what country dust does to point shoes.) Mr. Campos gives individuals in the corps hints of South American attire. We always know where we are, and yet the designs are economical, unobtrusive. 
 Andrew Veyette is vivid as the main Wild Horse, whom Mr. Angle allows to escape early on; Georgina Pazcoguin, one of the company's finest actors, makes something strikingly individual of the horse Mr. Angle then tames successfully. The horse movements contrast precise clip-clop footwork and staccato, apprehensive headwork with wilder and more outgoing movements. Nicely done though all this is, nothing here feels original.
 The opposition of city and country folk is none too drastic. Mr. Angle, whose role is limited in dance terms, unbuttons a little as the work proceeds, and Ms. Peck, of course, thaws. Their pas de deux has suggestions that she too is a wild filly, but there's nothing harsh in his taming; she's already interested in him. If there's a fault, it is -- as always with Mr. Wheeldon -- that they rush too soon into high lifts, too quickly suggesting rapture and abandon.
 Mr. Wheeldon handles all the ensembles with skill, working the right-hand section in a way unlike the left-hand, or having one group face backward, another forward, all as part of a complex texture that makes this Argentine world look far from uniform. He and the music take off in an enthusiastic all-dance finale; Ms. Peck shows just a little of her terrific capacity for virtuosity.
 Still, how odd to find in this Architecture of Dance season a work that means to spirit us away from urban architecture altogether. By contrast, the program placed ''Estancia'' between two Balanchine pieces in whose decor urban architecture plays a forceful role. ''Danses Concertantes,'' choreographed for the 1972 Stravinsky festival, uses costumes and scenery that Eugene Berman designed for the original, famous but short-lived Balanchine-Stravinsky 1944 production. 
 In every way it evokes layers of classicism old and new, in which traditions deriving from ancient Greece and the Baroque are hugger-mugger with 20th-century jazziness and sly vaudeville fun. ''Brahms-Schoenberg Quartet'' (1966) has decor by David Mitchell and costumes by Karinska that evoke different views of late-19th-century Vienna and the Schonbrunn Palace, and choreography that takes multiple views of imperial Austrian-Hungarian romantic classicism.
 Both ballets were well performed on Saturday. It's a particular fascination to see again the seldom-revived but startlingly inventive ''Danses Concertantes.'' I will say more about their choreography and dancers in a later review. Here I note merely the most obvious paradox of the evening: Both works made ''Estancia'' look entirely, even deliberately pre-Balanchine. 
 ''Estancia'' continues in repertory until June 11; New York City Ballet's season continues until June 27, David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center; nycballet.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York City Ballet: Tyler Angle (left) and Tiler Peck in ''Estancia,'' at the David H. Koch Theater. (C1)
 Surrounded by horses, Tyler Angle lifting Tiler Peck in Christopher Wheeldon's ''Estancia.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL KOLNIK/NEW YORK CITY BALLET) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (89%); HORSES (87%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010



799 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: New York Libraries' Adult English Programs Face Cuts

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Adriana Blancarte-Hayward had a college degree and basic English when she moved here seven years ago from Mexico to marry an American man. But she did not have a job and felt homesick and isolated, so she signed up for free English classes at the New York Public Library.
 The confidence she gained and the friendships she made were invaluable in helping her settle into her new home, Ms. Blancarte-Hayward, 31, said in an interview last week. 
 Today Ms. Blancarte-Hayward helps register people for English classes as the manager of the New Dorp branch library in Staten Island, a position that allows her to meet those taking the same path she once did and to tell them about the change such classes can bring in their lives.
 ''That seems to motivate them,'' she said with a smile. ''When I think back, when I just walked in,'' she continued, ''and now I'm running the branch, it's crazy.''
 The New York Public Library is one of many providers of free English classes in New York City. The Queens and Brooklyn Public Libraries offer them, as do the New York City Department of Education, the City University of New York, and various nonprofit community groups. Even so, the need for instruction in English still seems to outpace the supply.
 Registration takes place three times a year for the New York Public Library's classes, which are offered on evenings and Saturdays in neighborhoods throughout Manhattan, Staten Island, and the Bronx. Typically, many more people show up than there are spots available, and hundreds have to be turned away. (Spots are distributed by a lottery.)
 Now, with the library facing a possible $37 million budget cut, even fewer people may be able to take classes next year. If the cuts go through, the library says that in addition to closing 10 branches and cutting service across the system to four days from six, it will have to cut the number of English language classes it offers from 117 to 48, and the number of spots from roughly 3,000 to less than 1,300. The Brooklyn and Queens library systems are facing similar financing cuts that threaten their English classes as well.
 ''They're incredibly valuable and incredibly popular,'' Councilman James G. Van Bramer said of the classes offered across the city. Mr. Van Bramer, who heads the committee of the Council that oversees libraries and is a former executive of the Queens Public Library, said many people who cannot get into the classes are ''unable to get into the job market.''
 At Ms. Blancarte-Hayward's branch, she said women had told her of the changes the classes had made in their lives. ''They can go to their kid's school and talk to the teacher,'' she said. ''For them, it's a big change.''
 The enthusiasm for the education being offered was obvious at the Inwood branch on a recent evening. The 18 students, mostly from Central and Latin America, as well as Serbia, Eritrea, Spain and Haiti, paired off for an exercise that involved looking at pictures from magazines and describing what they saw. The teacher, an energetic woman named Jerilyn Sackler, moved around the room, engaging briefly in different conversations and teaching the students new words.
 ''This is a big, dangerous fish. Does anybody know the name of this?'' she asked, pointing to an underwater photograph. ''It's the biggest fish. Actually, it's not a fish, it's a mammal.''
 One student came up with the word: ''whale.'' But when asked to spell it, she suggested ''W-A-L-E.'' Ms. Sackler, who is by now quite familiar with the many quirks of the English language, was supportive. ''The only thing I would add is that there's an 'h' you don't hear,'' she said.
 Two other students, Katty Gil, 34, from the Dominican Republic, and Alejandra Garcia, 30, from Colombia, said that their children sometimes tease them for not being able to speak English.
 ''I need to be able to help my children with their homework,'' Ms. Gil said. (Because so many of the students are parents, the library offers free child care.)
 Olga Polanco, 58, who came from the Dominican Republic 30 years ago, said that she needed to improve her English for her job as a school bus monitor. If something happened and a child got hurt, she said, ''I have to be able to speak to the doctor, the parent, the police.''
 The library does not ask for any documentation, which makes coming there unthreatening, said Leslie Robbins, the executive director of the Riverside Language Program, which the library contracts to administer its English classes.
 Some students, like Ms. Blancarte-Hayward, are highly educated and will eventually find well-paying jobs. Others struggle. Ms. Sackler said that she tried to help younger students get on track to go to college. If they are newly arrived in this country, she tries to send them to Riverside's six-week intensive language program, which is separate from the library's program and meets for six hours, five days a week.
 ''For every three or four or five who go to college or go to a training program, there's always about 10 whom the economics don't allow to,'' Ms. Sackler said.
 Still, the students said they were optimistic about the opportunities that English would open up.
 ''I want to start college,'' Ms. Garcia said. ''I want to be...'' she paused. ''A nurse?''
 She looked at Ms. Gil expectantly to see if she had the word right.
 Ms. Gil nodded.
 ''Yes,'' she said, smiling. ''A nurse.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about possible cuts to adult English programs at New York libraries incorrectly described child care at the programs. Child care is provided at two locations, not all of them, and it is provided by a nonprofit group, with supervision by library staff, not solely by the library.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katty Gil, left, and Olga Polanco, from the Dominican Republic, attend a free English class at the library's Inwood branch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Adriana Blancarte-Hayward took English classes at the New York Public Library
 now she manages a Staten Island branch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (92%); LIBRARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (62%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010



800 of 812 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Defense Chief Leads in Colombia, but Faces Runoff

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
BOGOTA, Colombia -- A scion of a powerful Colombian family comfortably won more votes than an eccentric former mayor of Bogota in presidential elections on Sunday, but narrowly failed to get the majority needed to prevent a runoff election in June between the two men.
 The lead vote-getter, Juan Manuel Santos, the architect of crushing blows against guerrillas as a defense minister under President Alvaro Uribe, took 46.6 percent, against 21.5 percent for his main rival, Antanas Mockus, a French-educated mathematician who had unexpectedly emerged as a strong contender in the race, Colombian election authorities said Sunday night. Several other candidates garnered shares of the remainder of the vote. 
 Mr. Santos's inability to win more than 50 percent opens the way for a new campaigning phase in which the two are expected to fiercely criticize each other's capabilities yet again. Mr. Mockus has emphasized human rights scandals on his opponent's watch as defense minister, while Mr. Santos has questioned if Mr. Mockus is ready to lead a country that faces resilient security threats from leftist rebels and drug-trafficking gangs.
 Despite polls that briefly signaled that Mr. Mockus was within grasp of a victory, the results showed that many voters were instead ready to support Mr. Santos, who portrayed himself as the political heir to Mr. Uribe, a strong ally of the United States who lowered kidnapping and murder rates during his eight years in power.
 ''Of all the candidates running, Santos wears the pants when it comes to confronting the guerrillas,'' said Fernando Morales, 37, a security guard, after casting his vote here.
 ''I don't like Mockus much because he's someone who lowers his pants to get attention,'' Mr. Morales said in a dig at Mr. Mockus, who as a university dean rose to prominence in the 1990s after dropping his trousers and mooning an auditorium of unruly students. The episode forced Mr. Mockus to resign from his post, but gave him the publicity to run successfully for mayor of Bogota.
 Mr. Mockus, 58, won plaudits in two colorful terms as mayor after improving the quality of life in a city that had been plagued by car bombs and generalized chaos. Drawing on arcane philosophical concepts, he used mimes to curb traffic violations and persuaded Bogotanos to pay more taxes in exchange for improved services.
 Mr. Mockus campaigned on an anticorruption platform, emphasizing scandals including wiretaps of prominent judges by Mr. Uribe's intelligence agency and the killing of civilians by soldiers who then catalogued them as guerrillas in efforts to raise combat-kill statistics.
 But at the end of the day many Colombians voted for continuity, even if Mr. Mockus's message of accountability resonated. ''Colombians want stability, but they also seem to want clean government,'' said Cynthia Arnson, a specialist on Colombian politics at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.
 Just as Mr. Mockus ran an antiestablishment campaign as the head of the Green Party, Mr. Santos, 59, embodied the establishment that is the bedrock of support for President Uribe. Mr. Santos's granduncle Eduardo Santos was president of Colombia; a cousin, Francisco Santos, is currently vice president; and his family wields influence through El Tiempo, a leading newspaper here in which it has a stake.
 While Mr. Santos campaigned on his record of marginalizing the country's largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, it still wreaks havoc in some areas. Underscoring this threat, the FARC killed two children in a grenade attack on the eve of the election in the remote hamlet of El Plateado in southwestern Colombia, the Colombian armed forces reported.
 That episode followed an ambush by the FARC in the southern department, or province, of Caqueta last week that killed nine marines on a patrol, the biggest loss of life by the security forces since January. Indeed, the FARC's resilience in recent months had emerged as an issue for some in Colombia ahead of the vote.
 ''Don't let them say they're leaving behind a country that's a paradise,'' Hector Abad Faciolince, one of Colombia's top writers and social commentators, wrote in a column criticizing the Uribe administration in the newspaper El Espectador on Sunday.
 Other countries in Latin America are closely following the election here, especially Venezuela, where President Hugo Chavez, who has already traded barbs with Mr. Santos and who has tense economic and political relations with Mr. Uribe's government, has vowed to limit trade further with Colombia if Mr. Santos wins.
 ''Mr. Chavez and I probably don't agree on anything,'' Mr. Santos, 59, said in an interview here, acknowledging that relations with Venezuela would be a challenge. ''The concept of democracy, the concept of freedom, the concept of private property, the concept of the independence of the powers of the state. But if we respect the way we differ, we can have cordial relations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Juan Manuel Santos, the architect of crushing blows against guerrillas as a defense minister, was the lead vote-getter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VIZCAINO/REUTERS)
 Antanas Mockus, a mathematician who had unexpectedly emerged as a strong contender, was Mr. Santos's main rival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIANA APONTE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (69%); CRIME RATES (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); MURDER (64%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); WIRETAPPING (50%)

PERSON: JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (90%); ALVARO URIBE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (94%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

 
