

201 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Mentally Ill: Unmet Goals For Albany

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

 BODY:
Homeless and mentally ill, sometimes addicted and even violent, the combination is all too familiar in New York City. But behind the individual cases -- most recently dramatized by the troubles of Larry Hogue, the man who terrorized 96th Street for years -- lies a history of collective failure in Albany.
Legislative gridlock, budget shortfalls and not-in-my-backyard lobbying have left New York State tens of thousands of beds short of what is needed more than two decades after a pledge was made to treat the mentally ill outside of large hospitals. 
 While the number of mental patients in state hospitals has plunged from 93,000 in the 1950's to about 12,000 today, the state has never matched this with a concurrent rise in resources for group homes or outpatient programs.
 
Unfulfilled Pledges
 In fact, while more than 150,000 people in the state are suffering from serious mental illness, about two-thirds of New York's $3.8 billion mental-health spending is still used for hospital services.
And recent pledges -- modest in comparison to past promises to balance the emptying of hospitals under deinstutionalization by creating less-costly community-based programs -- have gone unkept. Two years ago, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo pledged to build nearly 2,000 apartments for the homeless mentally ill in New York City by this summer. To date, the number completed is 315.
The question of how to care for mentally ill homeless people came into clear focus in recent weeks with the repeated arrests of Larry Hogue, a mentally ill, drug-addicted homeless man who has terrorized Upper West Side residents in Manhattan. Although Mr. Hogue's is an extreme case, mental health experts say he is an altogether common example of how the system fails at the outset to point a disturbed person toward alternatives: a home for the mentally ill or some other supervised setting, where he might have been kept away from the plunge into drug use that doctors say led directly to his stalking and terror.
State leaders' attempts to explain why it is so difficult to move money from mental hospitals into less-expensive community-based programs often become an exercise in blame.
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, cites the Republican-led State Senate as the chief obstacle. But he has had little problem persuading the Republicans to go along with construction of 30,000 new prison cells in his tenure, in part because prisons bring jobs to upstate districts represented by Republicans.
 
'Intelligent Downsizing'
 But shifting money to group homes from state-run psychiatric hospitals, mostly upstate, means sending money downstate. "All you need to do is call the politicians who represent the upstate hospitals and ask them," said Michael J. Dowling, the Governor's director of health, education and human services. "We have been pushing, as a policy, the intelligent downsizing of the institutions for years."
Many lawmakers staunchly defend the centers as a bastion of economic activity in depressed areas. For instance, the Willard Psychiatric Center in Romulus, N.Y., is the third-largest employer in Seneca County, which is struggling with the looming closing of an Army depot. State Senator John R. Kuhl Jr., a Republican who represents the county, says Willard should not be closed as a mental hospital until the state has settled on some alternative use for it.
Nonetheless, the costs of maintaining the outdated hospitals are staggering. New York is spending $2 million a year to treat just 14 remaining patients at the Gowanda Psychiatric Center in southwestern New York, basically because the Legislature has never given the State Office of Mental Health the authority to shut it down.
Even in state hospitals with larger numbers of mentally ill people, the cost per patient still hovers around an average of $120,000 a year, about four times as much as it costs to keep someone in a group home. A state plan to close or downsize half of its 22 psychiatric hospitals in the next decade, which has run into resistance in the Legislature, would save about $360 million a year and could nearly double the Office of Mental Health's budget for the community programs.
Yet some of the mentally ill are so sick that a hospital is the only place for them. Mr. Hogue, who suffered damage to the frontal lobe in his brain while in the Navy and is now under psychiatric evaluation at Bellevue Hospital, may be one of them.
But Richard C. Surles, the state's Commissioner of Mental Health, estimates that up to half of the people now in psychiatric centers could be cared for in community settings.
The problem in Albany is that many legislators who say they agree that shifting money from the psychiatric centers is the right idea have balked at actually doing so in the state budget, in part because they say they have been unable to get guarantees from Mr. Surles or Mr. Cuomo about how the money will be spent.
 
Payroll Expenses
 Earlier this year, Mr. Surles conceded that money set for opening group-home beds had been used to meet his department's payroll expenses. And many mental-health groups fault Mr. Surles's office for what they see as its backing away from plans for many of the homes in the face of community opposition.
In shifting money into non-hospital programs, the state has gone from a little less than 30 percent of the mental-health budget in 1986 to about 38 percent now. Mr. Surles says that figure is still far too low, but some influential lawmakers are reluctant to proceed with the hospital closings.
"I don't think the answer when times get tough is to just put the locks on the psychiatric centers," said Nicholas A. Spano, a Yonkers Republican who heads the State Senate Mental Hygiene Committee. "There has to be a mechanism to capture the financial savings and insure that it is reinvested in the community-based system. We've hit a stone wall with the Division of the Budget on that."
Even when money is available to open group homes, local opposition often arises. This, along with bureaucratic squabbles with New York City, is a primary reason state officials cite to explain the delay in providing the 1,900 apartments the Governor pledged two years ago in the city.
Mr. Dowling and Mr. Surles noted that despite the original goal of having all the units available this summer, the legal papers signed by Mr. Cuomo and Mayor David N. Dinkins provided something different: they said the "resources needed to fulfill the terms of the agreement" should be committed by now, with all units actually available by July 1993. "It is going to get done," Mr. Dowling said.
As Katina Zachmanoglou, housing committee chairwoman for Friends and Advocates of the Mentally Ill, a Manhattan group, sees it, "Most mentally ill people, with the right housing and support services, can live decent lives in the community, which they're entitled to. The point is we know how to care for people with mental illness. It's just not being done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STALKING (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); LEGISLATION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); POLITICS (64%); PRISONS (63%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE LARRY HOGUE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



202 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Job Rights for Homosexuals Backed in Poll

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
An overwhelming majority of Americans suppport equal employment opportunities for homosexuals, according to a poll in this week's issue of Newsweek magazine.
The survey said 78 percent of Americans favored equal job opportunities for homosexuals, while two-thirds of the 547 registered voters interviewed by phone approved of inheritance rights and health insurance for gay spouses. 
 But less than one-third of those surveyed said they approved of legally sanctioned gay marriages, and only 32 percent said they thought homosexuals should be able to adopt children.
The poll found that 53 percent of Americans did not consider homosexuality an "acceptable" life style and 45 percent said they considered gay rights a threat to the American family and its values.
The poll was conducted for Newsweek by the Gallup organization and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
About 4 in 10 of those surveyed approved of Gov. Bill Clinton's and President Bush's positions on gay rights, while 16 percent of those polled said Mr. Clinton, the Democratic Presidential nominee, had gone too far in his support of gay rights. Twenty-seven percent said they objected to Mr. Bush's stated opposition to gay rights.
Newsweek said Americans were almost evenly divided over whether homosexuals should teach in elementary schools or be members of the clergy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK (MAGAZINE) NEWSWEEK INC (58%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWSWEEK (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; HOMOSEXUALITY; HIRING AND PROMOTION; DISCRIMINATION GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); LGBT RIGHTS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



203 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: Educational Virtuoso or Villain?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
In many ways Joseph A. Fernandez's first days as Chancellor of New York City's ailing school system were reminiscent of the breathtaking sweep and buoyant promise of Franklin D. Roosevelt's first 100 days as President.
In a matter of weeks, Mr. Fernandez stripped principals and administrators of their jobs, shut down a congested teacher-licensing bureau, overturned the hoary tenure system for principals and prescribed a host of offbeat remedies. Soon, the eyes of the nation were upon him as he made condoms available in high schools and shifted power away from principals to committees of teachers and parents. 
 But as Mr. Fernandez starts his third full school year on Wednesday, it seems clear that some of the sheen has worn off his image, and, while he has maintained many fervent supporters, he has also spawned some ardent detractors.
 
Enlivening Innovations
 To be sure, there are many education watchers who think he has been a masterful commander, invigorating a lackadaisical system, steering it roughly intact through a punishing economic slump, and throwing in some enlivening innovations as well.
"I think he's about the best chancellor we've had in a long time and he's done as well as anyone can do in a flawed system," said Robert Berne, a New York University professor of public administration who directed an influential study of New York's schools.
But there are others who think Mr. Fernandez's impact has too often been cosmetic, that he has been too preoccupied with flashy managerial strokes while scarcely lancing the system's instructional boils.
"He has not articulated a vision of what an educated child is like, what the educated child should learn, what the expectations are for every child," said Jeanne Frankl, executive director of the Public Education Association, the city's oldest educational advocacy group.
Some critics feel his stubborn temperament has alienated members of the Board of Education and some of the bureaucrats and city officials he must work with. For most of his two and a half years, Mr. Fernandez has been locked in bruising combat with a majority of the seven-member board over how to prevent AIDS, battling first over a condom program, then over an AIDS curriculum, and, in recent weeks, over a pledge requiring outside AIDS lecturers to emphasize sexual abstinence.
While Mr. Fernandez has more than held his own, the battle has been a distraction from more vital issues, and some feel he should have been more compromising.
Between champions and skeptics are urban experts who believe that even a pedagogic virtuoso can have very little impact in a system with almost one million students, 991 schools and 125,000 employees. The system has seen better and worse times, but its quality has been the product of factors beyond a chancellor's control -- the solidity of families sending children to schools, the attractiveness of the teaching profession, the city's economic state.
"The real Achilles' heel of the system is its size," said Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics at New York University. "And that will defeat any executive no matter how smart he is. If he keeps out of trouble he's doing all right."
This handicap, says Joseph Shenker, president of the Bank Street College of Education in Manhattan, is compounded by New York's fractured governing system, where elementary and junior high schools are primarily under the control of 32 local boards, not Mr. Fernandez.
"If they'd show that organization chart to anyone in private industry they'd say you're nuts," says Mr. Shenker, adding, "Even in that context, Joe's done an awful lot to push the system in the right direction."
In measuring Mr. Fernandez's performance, raw scores are inconclusive. Early results seemed promising as reading, mathematics, attendance and dropout rates improved. But last spring -- after a year that saw the retirement of 200 principals and 4,000 teachers -- there was a sharp setback, with every district falling in reading and all but two in math.
Nor is it clear that schools are safer. Assaults, weapons seizures and other incidents rose from 3,941 in the 1989-90 school year to 4,952 last year, capped by the murder of two students at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn just moments before a visit by Mayor David N. Dinkins.
 
Mixing Fresh Ideas With Accountability
 Almost everyone agrees that the tall, broad-shouldered 56-year-old Mr. Fernandez has roused a slumbering elephant. Since coming from Miami, he has ousted two district superintendents, two school board members, and five principals, and seven times has taken over various powers of floundering school boards.
As a result, supporters say, everyone is more alert, aware that their misdeeds could have consequences. Those who were already energetic feel there is strong support for fresh ideas and maverick approaches. Newcomers from outside the system feel welcome. Until Mr. Fernandez's intervention, a wealthy Manhattan couple, Joseph and Carol Reich, felt stymied in their efforts to do a generous turn -- finance a new school in Brooklyn.
"I think he has provided hope for the school system," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center.
Soon after Mr. Fernandez walked through the doors of 110 Livingston Street in January 1990, replacing Richard R. Green, who died suddenly the previous year, the city's economy began an unrelenting slide. Yet Mr. Fernandez and his deputy, Stanley S. Litow, universally draw high marks for their deft management in the last two years, a sharp contrast to the confusion that marked the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's.
Instead of slashing teaching positions, they pared 1,600 of the 5,200 jobs in the central bureaucracy and salvaged millions of dollars in money for the classroom by contriving an early retirement plan and a $40 million deferral of teacher pay. They were willing to go to the mat with City Hall, and after $750 million in budget cuts over two years, they managed to fend off major cuts this year. Many superintendents, though, are complaining that even this year's cuts are painful, as deep as 10 percent in some districts. Mr. Fernandez did manage to keep his $4.3 billion building program largely intact.
"Will kids feels that? Of course they'll feel that!" a heated Mr. Fernandez snapped, responding in an interview to criticism that his impact has not been felt at the school level.
Such accomplishments, said Frank Newman, president of the Education Commission of the States, a national policy group, are far more impressive than some other reforms that might get more attention.
"When you go to the circus and see the high-wire act and someone's doing somersaults, everyone says it's hard to do somersaults, but basically you have to stay on the high wire," said Mr. Newman.
 
Students, Condoms And Fighting AIDS
 Yet Mr. Fernandez has done a few somersaults as well. Although it remains deeply divisive, condom distribution was a response to what the Chancellor sees as the threat of a teen-age AIDS epidemic, a threat that some critics feel he has overstated and that school executives in some other cities have sidestepped.
"History is going to deal kindly with how we dealt with the AIDS issue," Mr. Fernandez said. "People will look back on this and say there was one system that led the charge."
Mr. Fernandez has enlisted 240 schools in "school-based management," which gives committees of teachers and parents a voice in school policy. He has upgraded requirements for mathematics and science and announced plans for 30 small thematic high schools, including schools for disruptive youngsters. He has chipped away at the bureaucracy's notorious secretiveness by publishing every school's budget.
Over all, said Mr. Shenker, Mr. Fernandez has succeeded in reviving confidence in the public schools. "If Joe ever left that level of confidence would just plummet," he said.
But there are some who think Mr. Fernandez's reputation is overblown, and even a few who believe he has been destructive.
 
Assessing if Changes Are Really Reforms
 Several observers like Mr. Tobier, the New York University professor, suggest that, in a system with ironclad mores and regulations, most school committees have been given only superficial tasks, the equivalent of shuffling the deck chairs on the Titanic.
However, Mr. Fernandez and his supporters argue that school-based management has revolutionized the ambience of many schools, transforming everything from how reading is taught to when teachers teach.
"For the first time," he said, "we have people talking about issues relating to kids, about curricular issues, how to get parents involved."
Mr. Fernandez burnished his reputation as a tough commander by winning the authority to transfer principals. Fewer than 10 of the 1,000 principals have been dislodged, and those were sent for brief retraining and then either returned to their old posts or reassigned. Mr. Fernandez contends that many principals have resigned rather than accept transfers.
Some school professionals say Mr. Fernandez has spent too much time on programs like condoms or longer school days without concentrating on improving the fundamentals of writing or social studies. Frank L. Smith, chairman of educational administration at Teachers College, Columbia University, said that instead of requiring more years of science, Mr. Fernandez should be igniting a debate on how science should be taught, whether, for example, computer simulations need to replace workbooks "because that's how adults do science."
"More of outdated science makes the problem worse not better," Mr. Smith said.
The root of the problem, adds Nona E. Smith, educational director of the New York State chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, is that Mr. Fernandez blundered by appointing lieutenants masterful at the "political things," but not, until his recent appointment of Argie K. Johnson as deputy for instruction, at curriculum. "If the instruction doesn't work, it doesn't matter how good the administrative pieces are," she said.
 
A (Slow) Shake-Up Of the Curriculum
 Mr. Fernandez admits that a major regret is his failure to shake up the curriculum division sooner than he did, retaining an administrator long after it was clear her performance was disappointing. But otherwise he disputes attacks of his instructional leadership, citing his beefing up of mathematics and science and his push for more computer-assisted reading programs.
Ms. Frankl of the Public Education Association thinks Mr. Fernandez should move more forcefully against districts like No. 5 in Harlem and No. 9 in the west Bronx whose students perennially perform poorly in reading and math. But Mr. Fernandez replies that at least in District 9, he pushed the board to replace an inept superintendent with Felton Johnson, a highly praised former principal.
"There's a new feeling there, it's turning around," Mr. Fernandez said. "That didn't happen by accident. I don't know how anybody can say the things we've done don't directly impact kids."
Conversely, other critics like Philip Kaplan, executive director of the New York City School Boards Association, say Mr. Fernandez has gone too far, doing "more damage to decentralization than in 20 years of the law's existence."
"Saying we're all crooked demeans the job," Mr. Kaplan said. "There are people in the trenches who have the ability to make change and he hasn't tapped that resource."
Former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who is generally adulatory, feels Mr. Fernandez has been too submissive to the United Federation of Teachers, for example, supporting a too-generous raise of 5 1/2 percent in 1990.
Mr. Fernandez heatedly disputes this, saying that he meets with Sandra Feldman, the union president, no more than a handful of times a year and that he has taken the union to arbitration over the number of working days. Besides, he says, the "the ones who end up suffering" in an adversarial relationship "are the kids."
John C. Fager, co-chairman of the Parents Coalition, thinks Mr. Fernandez has paid lip service to the ideal of increasing the role of parents, putting only token members on the school-based committees. Mr. Fernandez points out that parents had a smaller role before.
Throughout this debate of whether Mr. Fernandez has done too much or not enough, no one ever accuses him of being anything but extraordinarily diligent, starting his workdays at 7 A.M. and persistently seeking new problems to tackle. And both critics and supporters are mindful that no chancellor has ever taken this behemoth of a system and suddenly made it flourish.
"It's very hard," said Mr. Newman of the Education Commission, "to make the Queen Mary turn."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph A. Fernandez, Chancellor of New York City's schools, is starting his third full school year on Wednesday with a little less sheen in his image. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 21)
 
Graphs: "REPORT CARD: Fernandez's Tenure," tracks math, reading scores and dropout rate for years 1988-89, 1989-90, 1990-91 and 1991-92 (Source: New York City Board of Education) (pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR); BERGER, JOSEPH JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



204 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Harold Curtis Fleming Dies at 70; Tirelessly Fought for Civil Rights

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Harold Curtis Fleming, a white Southerner who became an early leader in the struggle for racial justice in a "new South," died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 70 years old.
Friends said he died suddenly after a brief illness. 
 As executive director of the Southern Regional Council, an organization formed in 1944 to promote equal opportunity for Southerners, Mr. Fleming joined the civil rights cause well before it became fashionable. And long after others had lost their fervor, he continued to work for that cause as head of the Potomac Institute in Washington.
Born on July 27, 1922, in Atlanta, he spent his formative years there and on a farm in northeast Georgia. After attending Boy's High School in Atlanta, he accepted a scholarship to Harvard University, where he worked on The Crimson, the college's newspaper, and The Advocate, Harvard's literary magazine.
 
Commanded Black Company
 When the United States entered World War II, he enlisted as an officer in the Army. Through "a quirk of fate," as he put it, he wound up on Okinawa as the captain of an all-black quartermaster company. He later described himself as being "shocked, traumatized" by the experience.
"I really came as close as anyone to realizing what it was like to be black in those days," he recalled in a newspaper interview 20 years after the war, "because I was intimately involved in these men and their treatment and on the receiving end in a sense myself. It amounted to being a straw boss in a very ugly, discriminatory system, which is rarely remembered today."
After the war, he finished his studies at Harvard and, returning to Atlanta, took a "temporary" job with the Southern Regional Council. It lasted 14 years, and he transformed the council from a fairly timid organization into a militant agent of racial equality.
He led creation of the council's Voter Education Project intended to get black citizens to register en masse. As it kept tabs of voter data, the council became the sole repository for black voter-registration statistics in the South, a treasure trove of numerical evidence used in hundreds of voting-rights lawsuits.
Mr. Fleming moved to Washington in 1962 to head the Potomac Institute, a not-for-profit agency that provided counseling in race relations to public agencies and the private sector.
In the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson, he was deputy director of the United States Community Relations Service. He was also a founder of the National Urban Coalition, and for more than a decade he served as chairman of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing.
In 1956, 11 years after joining the Southern Regional Council and two years after the Supreme Court decision that outlawed school segregation, Mr. Fleming co-wrote the book "Integration: North and South," in which he optimistically reported "extensive progress" in reducing discrimination.
But 29 years later, the goal seemed as elusive as ever. The more he and other civil rights advocates overcame rudimentary problems of racism, he observed in a 1985 interview, the more complex became the problems that remained. The struggle against discrimination, he said, had merely shifted from leaping simple political and judicial hurdles to curing stubborn economic and social ills.
And he observed: "There is a tiredness at the moment. We get tired very easily." Yet he counseled persistence, adding: "I think the things that are achieved in a field as complicated as this are achieved by people who stay with it."
Although he retired from the Potomac Institute about two years ago, he continued to write and consult about civil rights issues and affirmative action.
"The theme of Hal Fleming's whole life is summed up in the title of that Protestant hymn, 'Let Us Together Sweetly Live,' " said Claude Sitton, retired editor of The News & Observer of Raleigh, N.C., who was chief Southern correspondent for The New York Times from 1958 to 1964. "A brilliant, effective, indefatigable worker for an integrated America in which blacks and whites could prosper alongside one another."
Mr. Fleming's survivors include his second wife, Jenna, and two sons, Gary and Tony.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (78%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (90%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (90%); SOUTHERN REGIONAL COUNCIL (58%); SOUTHERN REGIONAL COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (90%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (90%); SOUTHERN REGIONAL COUNCIL (58%); SOUTHERN REGIONAL COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMIES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITERATURE (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (60%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: FLEMING, HAROLD CURTIS; SAXON, WOLFGANG HAROLD CURTIS FLEMING (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



205 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2289 words

HEADLINE: American Dream Put on Hold at Car Plant Doomed to Shut

SERIES: Closing Willow Run: Waiting for G.M.'s Telegram. First article of a series.

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich., Sept. 6

 BODY:
The day a General Motors manager stood on a stage at the Willow Run assembly plant here and told 2,000 workers the line would shut down forever by the fall of 1993, Chuck Kehrer watched as the man next to him bolted for the nearest trash can and threw up.
"The two women next to me went white," said Mr. Kehrer, who 22 years ago went from high school to a job as a spot welder in the body shop. "People were crying and running out. I didn't cry. I just had an empty feeling. I felt very, very sad. I felt as if the Titanic was going down, and everyone was running for the lifeboats, and the lifeboats had holes." 
 Mr. Kehrer, whose nickname, Animal, dates from his hell-raising youth, says he cried a month later, in March. It had taken him that long, he says, to realize all that he could be losing. He had had to tell his 18-year-old daughter, Heather, who wants to be a nurse, that everything was too uncertain for her to attend Eastern Michigan University, as planned. He was more worried than ever that his 20-year-old son, Jason, would never do better than a minimum-wage construction job.
 "I remember I was lying in bed with my wife and looking up at the ceiling," Mr. Kehrer said. "I'm not the kind of person who asks for things. If you want something, go out and get it. But I just started saying: 'I wish the plant weren't closing. I wish Heather could go to Eastern Michigan. I wish Jason could get a good job.' "
The news on Saturday that another local of the United Automobile Workers union, in Lordstown, Ohio, had ended its nine-day strike against G.M. offered little comfort here: at issue were 240 jobs, and G.M. won the right to eliminate them by January 1994.
Now, even as Mr. Kehrer and his fellow workers were preparing for the annual Labor Day parade in downtown Detroit, and for their final year at Willow Run, they were brooding over what happened to their vision of the future. It had always seemed as solid as the huge plant itself.
The assembly line could be brutal and numbingly monotonous, but for thousands of people, black and white, from Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee and Arkansas, it was a ticket out of the coal mines and away from dead-end jobs sweeping floors. The plant and G.M., the world's largest auto maker, had made the American Dream real for all of them.
"G.M. was the place to be -- top pay, good benefits," said Linda Robbins, whose husband has cleaned painting booths at Willow Run for 23 years, and whose father retired after 33 years as a repairman with the company. "G.M. was security. How could this happen? Why didn't anyone stop it?"
At the union hall across from the plant, at the annual retirees' picnic last month, and at home, the workers talk obsessively about how General Motors betrayed them.
Mr. Kehrer says their choices are limited. "What are you going to do -- go out and say: 'Hire me. I know how to shoot screws into a door with an air gun'?" he asked.
And so, even now, many are depending on the company to rescue them. They are waiting for telegrams summoning them to other plants -- in Texas, Tennessee, Ohio and other parts of Michigan. Most of them will receive telegrams, they have been told, but no one knows exactly when, or how many people will go where. It is too early to know what will happen over the next months.
"I've got a lot of years left to give General Motors," said Fred Mosley, 35 years old, whose wrists ache from 14 years of wielding air guns on the assembly line, installing dashboards and the trim on rear windows of cars. "They've got to keep me. I'm counting on General Motors."
Last year, G.M., the nation's largest manufacturer, lost $4.5 billion, the biggest annual loss ever for any American company. Declaring the imperative for "a leaner, more productive company," the chairman, Robert C. Stempel, announced plans to close 21 plants by 1995. One of those selected was Willow Run.
By 1995, Mr. Stempel said, the work force would be reduced by 74,000, including 50,000 hourly workers. Securities analysts on Wall Street said the changes were essential for the company's long-term survival.
"The auto industry has gone through a ruthless shakeout," said Harley Shaiken, an auto analyst at the University of California at San Diego. "These people are paying the price."
What makes Fred Mosley and his co-workers particularly bitter is not just that their plant is closing, but that for reasons G.M. has declined to specify, the cars they have been building will be produced instead in Arlington, Tex.
They say they understand that G.M. has to cut back. But why them? "We always made money for General Motors," Mr. Mosley said. And in turn, G.M. paid them wages -- about $17 an hour currently, with top benefits and full medical coverage -- that bought middle-class lives: ranch houses, new cars, fishing trips up north, college educations for their children.
Now, a group of men and women, mostly in their late 30's and 40's, with high school educations and 20 years or more in the plant, are confronting an America in which industrial jobs -- jobs for people like them, who like to work with their hands -- seem to be disappearing by the thousands. It is not only their auto plant that is shutting down. Plants that make steel, windows and typewriters have been closing all across the country.
 
The Psychology
Rumor and Denial Amid the Disbelief
 From General Motors headquarters in Detroit, only 30 miles away, little information is available for the workers of Willow Run. Bob Harlow, the president of the union's Local 1776, says he spends his days telling people what the company has told him: sometime by the end of next summer, the plant will close. But many in the rank and file do not believe him.
Wild rumors swirl -- the plant will stay open to produce the Saturn, or the next version of the Chevrolet Monte Carlo, or the Japanese will take it over. Ypsilanti Township has filed suit against G.M., arguing that the company is obligated to keep the plant open in return for tax abatements it received over the years.
The workers say they have to hope that Ypsilanti will win. "Can't roll over and die," said Doug Arter, a 34-year-old assembler. "That don't pay the bills."
A lawyer with the United Auto Workers, who insisted on anonymity, said victory is unlikely. "It's like trying to get an injunction against capitalism," he said.
Everyone talks about the deaths: six men from the plant -- four of heart attacks, two of brain disorders -- in six weeks last spring after the announcement, said Mr. Harlow, the local president. The youngest was 39, the oldest 49. No experts have connected the deaths to the plant closing, but they have saddened people and made them more afraid.
The end of Willow Run will mean the loss of nearly 4,000 hourly workers -- the 2,460 currently employed at the plant, as well as another 1,500 who were laid off 18 months ago, when the factory went from two shifts to one.
More than auto workers' jobs are at stake. Next door to the plant is Complete Auto Transit, which transports the finished cars; its 200 drivers, mechanics and car handlers are worried that they will end up unemployed. And down the road, at Howard's Hoagies, where auto workers have been buying lunch for 20 years, the four waitresses have already had their hours reduced.
In many ways, the auto workers are more fortunate than thousands of other displaced workers. Until at least next fall, when the current union contract runs out, they will receive nearly their full income and benefits, including medical coverage.
Workers with 10 years or more who are laid off receive 50 to 70 percent of their regular take-home pay until retirement age, or until they take another full-time job.
With thousands of other displaced G.M. workers scrambling for jobs at auto plants, it is unlikely that everyone will be placed. The company and the union will together provide millions of dollars for retraining -- Mr. Mosley has already made plans to study auto-engine repair -- but no one can promise a job in another field.
Transfers to other plants will be made according to seniority, and with 18 years the average among the company's 300,000 auto workers, the younger people are the most nervous.
"Why don't the older people retire and make room for the younger ones?" asked Mr. Mosley, who has a wife and a 4-year-old daughter.
That is also the hope of General Motors. After 30 years, any worker is eligible to retire, with income of $1,700 a month and full health coverage.
Jerry Krempitz, who has a nearly perfect attendance record for 33 years on the assembly line, and identifies himself as "a G.M. man," says he probably will retire. But he doesn't want to. He is only 51 years old.
"The plant's my life," he said.
 
The Decision
Abrupt Obituary For a Way of Life
 Schoolchildren here grow up studying the history of Willow Run. In the 1940's, the plant produced thousands of bombers for the Allies. After the war, the people of Willow Run built cars -- at the peak in 1973, 6,000 workers produced 1,000 cars a day. Chevrolet Corvairs and Novas, Pontiac Bonnevilles, Buick Roadmasters, and the car that many think doomed them, the most recent version of the Chevrolet Caprice, which has been poorly received by customers. The cars can be produced somewhere else. But what the workers fear cannot be transplanted is the way of life that has been built around their plant in Ypsilanti.
Willow Run means picnics, Christmas parties, bowling leagues and the union. Doug Arter met his wife, Kelly, when she broke him in on the assembly line nearly 16 years ago. Between them, Al Scutchfield and his cousin Curt Meadows, both from coal-mining families in Prestonsburg, Ky., have more than a dozen relatives at the plant.
 
The Announcement
Bitter Aftertaste Of a Victory Party
 There is one day here that all the auto workers relive over and over: Feb. 24, 1992. They had gathered for what was supposed to have been a celebration, an announcement by G.M. that their plant would stay open. The plant management had ordered 5,000 hot dogs, and the workers had built a stage for the victory speech.
But then, the disaster.
This is how Carla Pittman, a 36-year-old mother of two with 13 years' seniority at the plant, remembers it: "I have this picture in my mind of Doug and Kelly Arter," she said. "Kelly crying; Doug picking her up and hugging her. It was like, 'I've got you, it'll be O.K.' All I could think of was: 'I'm a single parent. Who's going to take care of me?' "
 Everyone -- auto analysts, labor reporters, top union officials -- had predicted that in the battle of the two plants, Willow Run would easily beat Arlington.
A bidding war of sorts was played out in the media, starting in December, when Mr. Stempel, the chairman, announced that production would be consolidated at one plant. Sales of large, rear-wheel-drive cars that both plants were making, like the Caprice, had been lagging badly.
Among other things, its location gave Willow Run a $325-a-car advantage in freight costs over Arlington, 1,000 miles southwest of Detroit. Its quality was highly rated. Only a few years ago, G.M. had invested $75 million in Willow Run.
Defying U.A.W. headquarters, the Arlington local voted for three-shift production, with nearly round-the-clock output, among other concessions.
Mr. Harlow said Willow Run had ruled out three-shift production as inefficient. "We sat down with the plant manager and asked if there was anything we had to do," he said. "He said: 'Everything is fine. There's no problem.' "
Mr. Stempel has denied U.A.W. accusations that he was pitting the two plants against each other. In deliberating, he said, G.M. took into account cost factors including overall efficiency and the flexibility of local union work rules.
Mr. Shaiken, the auto analyst, said G.M. had "set off a feeding frenzy over a game of musical jobs."
"Willow Run was a very cooperative plant," he said. "What makes this such a bitter experience for those workers is that they played by the rules, and the rules got switched. And nobody told them."
 
Recriminations
Plenty of Blame Is Passed Around
 The auto workers have all sorts of conspiracy theories about what happened. They blame President Bush along with Mr. Stempel; Gov. John Engler of Michigan, a Republican, and the people who drive Japanese cars. They also blame the recently negotiated North American Free Trade Agreement, noting that American auto makers have been paying Mexican workers about $1 an hour for similar production work.
Last month, the President flew into the Willow Run airport, behind the plant, and was whisked to a rally with Governor Engler in nearby Canton, which bills itself as a recession-proof town.
Among 5,000 Republicans, many of whom wore coats and ties and dresses in the heat, Al Scutchfield, Fred Mosley, Carla Pittman and about 100 other auto workers, all supporters of Bill Clinton, were there in U.A.W. T-shirts that said, "Fed Up, Can't Take No More."
Mr. Bush pledged to save jobs for auto workers. The auto workers, who stood less than 75 yards from him, shouted: "What about Willow Run?" Whether the President did not hear them or chose to ignore them, he did not mention their plant.
As the auto workers kept shouting, the crowd around them grew hostile. Mr. Mosley was next to a boy of about 10.
The boy looked up at him and said, "Pick up your welfare check on the way out."
Mr. Mosley, whose father died of black lung after a life in the coal mines, has supported himself since he was 17. He says he takes enormous pride in building American cars.
"That hurt me bad," he said later. "I've never taken any handouts. I just want a job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Harlow, a United Auto Workers local official in Ypsilanti, Mich., spends his days telling people the plant will close in 1993; Carla Pittman, a mother of two with 13 years of seniority, said: "I'm a single parent. Who's going to take care of me?"; "I wish the plant weren't closing," said Chuck Kehrer, who has worked at the Willow Run assembly plant for 22 years and acknowledges that workers' choices of future employment are limited; Carla Pittman, left, a mother of two who worked at the plant 13 years, said: "I'm a single parent. Who's going to take care of me?" (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. 40)
 
Map of Lower Michigan showing the location of Ypsilanti. (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (55%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (55%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YPSILANTI (MICH) UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); US LABOR DAY (65%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; STEMPLE, ROBERT C CHUCK KEHRER (78%); FRED MOSLEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



206 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Albert Rees, 71, Labor Economist And an Adviser to President Ford

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Albert Rees, a labor economist who was the chief inflation monitor in the Ford Administration, provost of Princeton University and president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 71 years old.
He died of cancer that had spread from his kidneys to other parts of his body, said Justin Harmon, a spokesman for Princeton University. 
 Mr. Rees influenced a generation of labor economists with his analyses of wages, unemployment and labor markets. He was one of the first economists to conduct studies that compared the relative wealth of people in different eras.
He was also an expert in explaining how the Government's institutions of economic policy, like the Federal Reserve or the Treasury Department, interact as they juggle the conflicting goals of equality and efficiency, full employment and stable prices.
 
Led Wage and Price Council
 "He combined an interest and awareness of the importance of data with an ability and inclination to use it and economic theory to examine issues of public importance," said Daniel Hamermesh, an economics professor at Michigan State University in East Lansing. "He conditioned how we think about economic and labor history in this country."
Mr. Rees was appointed by President Ford in 1974 to lead the new Council on Wage and Price Stability, which was authorized by Congress at a time when the public was expressing alarm about the inflation rate. Mr. Rees believed that the council, which had a $1 million budget and was not allowed to take steps to lower inflation, was supposed to alert the Government and the public about sources of inflationary pressure, like shortages in a particular industry.
He was undaunted by criticism that the council would be overwhelmed by its mandate. He was asked after taking office, for instance, whether a small Government agency could have any effect on the price of an internationally traded commodity like sugar.
"I'm unwilling to concede that until I try," Mr. Rees replied with a smile.
Mr. Rees was born in New York City on Aug. 21, 1921. He graduated from Oberlin College and received his master's degree and his doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. He became a full professor there in 1961 and served as chairman of the economics department from 1962 to 1966.
During his tenure at the University of Chicago, he served on the President's Council of Economic Advisers and the President's Committee to Appraise Employment and Unemployment Statistics.
After moving to Princeton in 1966, he held a number of positions, including chairman of the economics department and the Class of 1913 Professorship of Political Economy. He taught undergraduate and graduate courses on price theory and labor economics. He also served on advisory committees for the Federal Government and the State of New Jersey.
After leaving the Council on Wage and Price Stability in 1975, Mr. Rees returned to Princeton to serve as provost. In 1979, he was named president of the New York-based Sloan Foundation, which at that time had $250 million in assets and gave $15 million in grants a year. The foundation focuses on research in natural sciences, education, management and, to some degree, economics.
 
Wrote Landmark Labor Study
 Mr. Rees retired from the foundation in 1989, returning to Princeton as a senior research economist.
With George P. Shultz, the former Secretary of State and former dean of the University of Chicago School of Business, Mr. Rees was author of a landmark study, called the Chicago Labor Market Project, that was one of the first to collect and analyze data on the wages and employment conditions of individual workers.
Mr. Rees also wrote "Striking a Balance: Making National Economic Policy" (The University of Chicago Press, 1984), "The Economics of Work and Pay" (Harper & Row, 1973), "Workers and Wages in an Urban Labor Market" (with Mr. Shultz, The University of Chicago Press, 1970) and "The Economics of Trade Unions" (The University of Chicago Press, 1962).
Mr. Rees is survived by his wife, Marianne; three sons, David of Denver, Daniel of Kingston, Ontario, and Jonathan of Madison, Wis., and a sister, Anne Rees Held of Freeport, L.I.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert Rees. (1970)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEATHS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); STATISTICS (67%); 

PERSON: REES, ALBERT; LEVY, CLIFFORD J ALBERT REES (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



207 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: China Rushes From Mao to Markets

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHANGHAI

 BODY:
Perhaps the best-performing financial instrument in the world in 1992 has been a slip of white paper entitling the bearer to buy newly issued stocks on the Shanghai stock exchange. Sold early in the year for $5.50, by the summer these forms fetched nearly $300.
The soaring prices reflect the growing enthusiasm, bordering on desperation, of ordinary Chinese to become shareholders -- preferably rich ones. 
 After six years of on-and-off experimentation with shares, China is accelerating the development of a modern stock market. New companies are being listed each week, the number of investors is surging and hard-line critics have been muzzled.
 
Making a Transition
 "The ideological problems are basically resolved," Wei Wenyuan, the executive director of the stock exchange, said in an interview in an alcove above the trading floor.
A local stockbroker put it more bluntly. "We're in a transition to capitalism, conducted under the leadership of the Communist Party," he said.
That is hyperbole, for the number of stock companies make up only an infinitesimal proportion of the economy. But the stock market is emerging as a central element of the nation's economic reorganization, and popular support seems boundless.
In early August, more than a million would-be investors waited in line -- some for days -- to buy applications for stocks being issued in the southern city of Shenzhen. The applications cost $20 and had only a random 10 percent chance of being approved to buy shares. Even so, the potential investors rioted when the applications ran out.
Some 50,000 people rampaged through the streets, attacking police cars and shouting anti-Government slogans. The police fired tear gas and some gunshots, and there were unconfirmed reports that two people were killed.
 
Leadership Meets
 The clamor of a riot was not the kind of boom that reformers had hoped for. The Cabinet is said to have been worried as it met in the Zhongnanhai leadership compound in Beijing to watch secret police videotapes of the rioting, but so far there is no sign of a big slowdown in the move toward stocks.
"The Shenzhen incident was a problem arising at a technical level," said Wang Poming, the American-educated vice president of the Stock Exchange Executive Council of China. "It doesn't have anything to do with policy, or with the market itself. I don't see any major retreat from the shareholding system."
Mr. Wang said the rioting would probably lead to the establishment of a type of Securities and Exchange Commission to provide improved oversight.
China began to get excited about stocks late in 1986, and Shanghai and several other cities quickly set up rudimentary trading systems. A prominent economist, Li Yining, urged then that most of the nation's state-owned factories be turned into shareholder-owned companies.
 
A Popular Trend
 Progress was slow, however, partly because of the rise of the hard-liners at the time of the Tiananmen crackdown in June 1989. Shanghai opened a much more credible stock exchange in December 1990, and Shenzhen formally opened its own a few weeks later. Now other cities are frantically trying to get Beijing's approval to open exchanges, but the authorities are refusing on the basis that Shanghai and Shenzhen should be national markets.
Foreigners have also been invited to buy Chinese stocks through special "B shares" listed on both the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges. Early this year, B shares were all the rage as investors dreamed of getting in on the ground floor of one of the most vibrant economies in the world.
Since then, the B share market has stalled, in part because the shares are relatively expensive and thinly traded.
"These are the ups and downs you get at the beginning of any emerging market," said Timothy Beardson, chairman of Crosby Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. "China is going to have a very large stock market, one of the largest in the world, in our view. As the market gets bigger it'll get broader, and I think it's here to stay."
 
Foreigners Show Interest
 About 20 stock funds have been set up by Crosby and other foreign brokerage firms to buy Chinese equities, and Chinese companies are also trying to list directly on exchanges in the United States, Hong Kong and Australia.
The Shanghai market now lists 17 A share issues, for Chinese investors, along with 8 B shares. Mr. Wei, the exchange's head, says that by the end of the year there will be 50 A shares and 10 B shares.
Likewise, the number of seats on the exchange has risen to 212 from 46. Soon, there will be 600 seats.
Mr. Wei estimates that 1.2 million people -- a bit more than two-thirds from Shanghai and the rest scattered around the country -- have bought shares through the exchange. Among them are 10,000 to 20,000 professional investors, known as the dahu, who have $100,000 or more in their brokerage accounts.
 
Some Fortunes Made
 Some dahu -- the most famous is a Shanghai resident who goes by the name Millions Yang -- have made fortunes. For while B shares have been stagnating, the A shares traded by Chinese have been soaring.
"A fellow in my office put 5,000 yuan into Gold Cup Company shares a few years ago, and now it's worth 80,000 yuan," an envious official in Beijing said. Eighty thousand yuan is a bit less than $15,000.
These success stories have enticed more people into the market and created what is known here as "stock fever." Books about stocks are selling wildly, night schools on how to trade stocks have been set up in major cities, and newspapers are running columns on how to invest.
 
Ignoring the Fundamentals
 The only tactic that has not been tried has been analysis of fundamentals. Partly because of the unreliability of Chinese accounting, and partly because fundamentals do not matter as long as no one else looks at them either, trading often seems a bit divorced from reality. Price-earnings ratios exceed 100 for most Shanghai A shares, compared with a bit more than 10 for stocks in the less risky Hong Kong market.
Chinese investors seem to have a much clearer concept of upside potential than downside risk, even after a speculator lost $730 and committed suicide by electrocuting himself.
"What a numbskull," a Shanghai journalist said. "If he'd just waited, the market would have gone up again and he would have got his money back."
Restrictions on upward and downward movement of Shanghai stocks were lifted in May, and prices now generally follow the market. The first collapse came in Shanghai in August, with stocks abruptly plunging by nearly half. Some experts said the sharp selloff was a good thing, because it burned a few fingertips and chastened investors.
 
Talk of Intervention
 Officials insist that the authorities did not intervene in the market collapse, but the word among Chinese brokers and journalists is quite different. They say the Communist Party General Secretary, Jiang Zemin, telephoned the Shanghai party leader and asked for smooth trading in advance of a party Congress this fall.
When stock prices continued to slump, the exchange apparently halted trading for 20 minutes -- under the guise of a computer breakdown -- and ordered brokers to buy and support the market. The intervention worked, and prices have returned to their earlier range.
"Privatization" is still a taboo word in China, sending shivers down the spines of Communist hard-liners. But some younger officials use the term "going public" to suggest that share issues are just another form of public ownership.
 
Pace of Change Is Disputed
 "The key thing is that the Chinese have done it right," said William H. Overholt, executive director of the Bankers Trust Company in Hong Kong. "They've taken the time to create the institutional mechanisms for privatization before doing the privatization."
Some economists are impatient with China's relatively plodding steps, compared with the rapid changes in some former Communist countries. But others, including Mr. Overholt, say that China has prudently established a suitable foundation for capital markets.
"The East Europeans have done it utterly wrong, which is to rush pell-mell into reallocating the whole ownership and management of national productivity without having the institutional mechanisms in place to manage it properly," he said. "China will come out looking good."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Blossoming Market in Shanghai," tracks index of Shanghai's stock exchange weekly closes July 17, 1991-Aug, 21, 1992 (Source: Crosby Securities; Shanghai Securities Exchange) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: SHANGHAI STOCK EXCHANGE

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RIOTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (57%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



208 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: European Plane Plan Is in Trouble

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FARNBOROUGH, England, Sept. 6

 BODY:
This year's Farnborough Air Show, which opened today, was supposed to be an opportunity for Europe's aerospace industry to show off the European Fighter Aircraft, the region's most ambitious attempt yet to set aside national rivalries and cooperate in the development of an advanced warplane.
But only a mock-up of the fighter is here. The real thing has not yet flown, is months behind schedule and is suffering from a hemorrhaging of political support. And after spending six years and several billion dollars to design the aircraft, the four-nation European consortium behind the plane may never get a chance to produce anything but a handful of prototypes. 
 "Unless you're going to have a true technological breakthrough or somehow going to leapfrog what's already out there, it doesn't make any sense to invest in something new," said Kenneth Cannestra, the president of the Lockheed Corporation's aircraft-building division. "That's especially true when there are already airplanes out there that offer equal capability at the same or better price."
 
Plenty of Alternatives
 Of course, Mr. Cannestra is hardly a disinterested observer. Lockheed is but one of the American aircraft builders -- McDonnell Douglas, Boeing, General Dynamics and Northrop are all here -- hoping to capitalize on the European fighter's difficulties.
And the United States is not the only country dangling alternatives. France is completing work on its own new fighter, the Dassault Mirage. Sweden is aggressively trying to sell a lightweight, inexpensive fighter, the Gripen. And one of the biggest sales forces at Farnborough this year has come from Russia, which brought its MIG-29 and other aircraft, hoping for buyers among its former adversaries.
As a result, industry executives said, it may be difficult for the companies that make up the European Fighter Aircraft consortium to convince their governments that an all-European aircraft warrants investing another $40 billion in development and production of 400 or more planes.
The fighter program has become a case study in how difficult it can be to forge a consensus and maintain a common European approach to crucial economic and technological issues, even as Europe strives for a single market and greater political cooperation. The breakdown in the fighter program has increased the possibility that the participating nations will have to buy aircraft from the United States or elsewhere -- precisely the situation the European fighter was supposed to avoid.
 
Germany's Waning Interest
 The program suffered its biggest blow in June, when Germany decided that the plane was too costly, given the virtual disappearance of a military threat from the former Soviet Union. Germany said it would not proceed in moving from development of the plane into production, but stopped short of ending its participation in the program.
Instead, the German Defense Minister, Volker Ruhe, is pushing the other partners -- Britain, Italy and Spain -- to adopt a less expensive design, perhaps in conjunction with Sweden and France. But Britain and its main contractor on the program, British Aerospace P.L.C., are resisting, saying the fighter as currently designed is the best option for Britain's security needs and for maintaining a viable weapons industry.
Officials in Italy and Spain appear to be wavering. A decision is not expected on whether the program will proceed, or if so in what form, at least until the European defense ministers meet in November.
 
Trying to Save the Group
 Executives of Eurofighter G.m.b.H., the consortium of aerospace companies that manages the project, tried today to present an upbeat picture of the fighter's prospects.
"We are certain that we can offer adequate solutions to the aircraft replacement requirements of the four nations as they will be defined by the ministers," said Roberto Mannu, the consortium's chairman. He and other executives of Eurofighter said they were preparing possible cost-cutting measures and design refinements in an attempt to hold the four nations together on the project.
The Eurofighter consortium is made up of British Aerospace (a 33 percent owner), Daimler-Benz A.G.'s Deutsche Aerospace unit (33 percent), Alenia of Italy (21 percent) and Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain (13 percent).
 
U.S. Makers See Opportunities
 But for the military contractors from the United States and other nations who gathered here to sell their products, the growing doubts about the E.F.A., as the plane is known, have been encouraging news. If the European aircraft program dies, analysts said, Germany will almost certainly consider buying FA-18 fighters, which are built by the McDonnell Douglas Corporation in St. Louis and the Northrop Corporation in Southern California. Italy and Spain, they said, might also consider the FA-18 or the F-16, which is manufactured by the General Dynamics Corporation in Fort Worth.
The team -- Lockheed, Boeing and General Dynamics -- building the United States Air Force's F-22, its next-generation fighter, has informally discussed whether it could develop a less-advanced version that the Pentagon would permit to be exported.
 
Britain's Last Hope
 But in Europe, as in the United States, military procurement decisions often rest on political factors and issues of national pride. In Britain especially, the E.F.A. is seen as the last best hope for maintaining a world-class aerospace industry. British Aerospace, the mainstay of the industry here, has been pulling back from its commercial businesses, including commuter aircraft, and is banking heavily on the new fighter to maintain the company's size and technical abilities.
Any purchase of a foreign plane "would significantly damage our engineering base in the U.K., and our ability to provide the sort of support that we provided to the front-line fighting forces during their involvement in both the Falklands and the gulf war," John P. Weston, the managing director of British Aerospace's military division, said last week.
Mr. Weston said British Aerospace believed it could build the plane on its own, to supply the Royal Air Force and export markets, even if the other nations abandon the program after the completion of the $10 billion development phase in the next few years.
 
Political Support
 "We've started as a four-nation program and we hope to keep it that way," Mr. Weston said. "But technologically, there is nothing in the airplane we couldn't do in the U.K. if we had to."
The program is supported by all three major political parties in Britain, who are loath to risk the loss of employment that would come with a decision to shelve the E.F.A. The same factors are being weighed by Government officials in Germany, Italy and Spain.
"Clearly, the Europeans face the same situation you face in the United States, and it's a four-letter word called jobs," said Howard Rubel, an analyst at C. J. Lawrence Inc.

GRAPHIC: A mock-up of the European Fighter Aircraft, the region's cooperative military venture, was on display yesterday at the Farnborough Air Show in England. The project has fallen months behind schedule. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (93%); BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); GD (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (93%); BOEING CO (90%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; EUROPEAN FIGHTER AIRCRAFT; FINANCES FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (92%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SALES FORCE (64%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



209 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Fed Action Is Limited By Dollar

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
In cutting a key interest rate on Friday, the Federal Reserve was seeking to walk a tightrope, trying to nudge the nation's economy gently forward without pushing the dollar off a cliff.
The dollar has slipped to record lows against the German mark in recent weeks, principally because short-term interest rates are so much lower in the United States than in Germany. And some analysts fear that the Fed's quarter-point reduction in the Federal funds rate -- the rate at which banks make overnight loans to each other -- could accelerate the dollar's decline. 
 While the latest interest rate cut was sought by the Bush Administration, especially by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, the reduction runs the risk of hurting President Bush if it sends the dollar to new lows and spreads turmoil in the stock and bond markets. Mr. Brady favors a weak dollar to help increase exports of American products, though it can help spur inflation by raising the price of imports.
 
Not Generating Jobs
 Still, many economists say that in reducing the Federal funds rate to 3 percent from 3.25 percent, the Fed did what it had to do to lift the long-languishing economy. The Fed pumped money into the banking system on Friday to lower the Federal funds rate just hours after the Labor Department released a dismal employment report, showing that American business lost 167,000 jobs in August.
"The economy is still not generating enough jobs, and the Fed had little choice but to show that it is in an easing mode," said Scott E. Pardee, a former Federal Reserve economist who is now chairman of Yamaichi International America. "But to the extent the dollar continues to decline or goes into free fall, that could become a serious political issue for the Bush Administration."
In an appearance today on the ABC program "This Week with David Brinkley," Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director, predicted the dollar would not fall much further and said the Bundesbank, the German central bank, was largely to blame for the dollar's weakness.
"I wouldn't expect a flight from the dollar," he said, adding that investors would not pull out of the dollar because the United States still has the world's leading economy.
Mr. Darman said the Bundesbank was weakening the dollar by keeping German interest rates high.
Economists said that the interest rate cut on Friday appeared to be the first instance in which the dollar's weakness had constrained the central bank's flexibility since Alan Greenspan became chairman in August 1987.
David M. Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a New York securities firm, said that were it not for the dollar's dive, the Fed might have cut rates as boldly on Friday as it did on July 2, when the Labor Department issued another disastrous jobs report. On that day, the Fed made cuts of a half of a percentage point in the Federal funds rate and the discount rate -- the rate it charges on direct loans to banks. The discount rate is currently at 3 percent.
"Were it not for the threat of a dollar crisis, the Fed might have been more aggressive today," Mr. Jones said on Friday. "The dollar has become an effective limit on how much further the Fed could ease."
Among foreign exchange traders, there has been talk in recent weeks that if the dollar went into a free fall, the Fed might be forced to raise rates, which would buttress the dollar by helping attract investment dollars into the United States. But a rate increase is one of the last things President Bush wants, since it could further slow economic growth, and the nearly stalled economy could well prove his downfall.
The dollar fell sharply against the German mark on Friday, but remained above record lows. It closed at 1.4015 marks on Friday, down from 1.4135 late on Thursday.
 
Help From Italy and Britain
 The dismaying jobs report and rate cut hurt the dollar, but analysts said its slide was slowed by economic maneuvering in Europe that was aimed at keeping the mark from soaring against other currencies. Italy raised its interest rates to buoy the sagging lira, while Britain arranged to borrow $14.5 billion worth of marks from Germany to prop up the pound.
The flight from dollars toward marks has strengthened the German currency against not only the dollar, but also the lira and pound, which are in danger of sinking below the floor set by the European Monetary System, an arrangement of linked exchange rates.
Analysts suggested that the Fed chose to lower the Federal funds rate instead of the more visible discount rate to reduce the chances of creating turmoil in the currency markets.
The jobs report on Friday was one of several recent reports indicating new softness in the economy. The various data have led more and more analysts to talk about the possibility of a triple dip -- that is, a third dip toward recession. The reports include a drop in factory orders, a drop in consumer confidence and weak department store sales.
Economists said that the Federal Reserve's quarter-point easing would have only a slight stimulative effect and that the effect would probably not be felt for at least four months.
"The Federal funds rate has been cut almost 700 basis points over the past few years, and these cuts have done surprisingly little to stimulate the economy," said Norman Robertson, chief economist for the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "So I fear that the new rate cut won't do any good at all." A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
"I suspect it might have been made to defuse political pressure," Mr. Robertson added, "to avoid the accusation that the Fed was ignoring the plight of the economy."
 
Some Question Impact
 After the recovery that began in early 1991 stumbled late last year, Administration officials and many economists blamed the Fed for not cutting rates faster, saying it was not being attentive enough to the economy's problems.
Just as some economists said the rate cut on Friday might be too small to help the economy much, some said it was so small that it might not hurt the dollar much. Several economists asked what difference a quarter-point rate cut would make when the spread is already almost 7 percent between short-term American and German rates.
With the Fed's ability to cut rates hamstrung by the dollar's weakness, many economists say there will be increasing pressure within the Administration and Congress to embrace fiscal stimulus -- like increased spending on public works -- notwithstanding the nation's $350 billion budget deficit.
In the view of many Fed watchers, the Fed may be tempted to lower rates further in the next few weeks, but they said the central bank probably first wanted to see whether the dollar steadies or sinks further.
Many American officials hope Germany's central bank will soon lower rates to stop the dollar's fall, steady the markets and lift Europe's economy. While some economists predict that the Bundesbank will lower rates in the next few months because Germany's economy is slumping, others say the German central bank is intent on keeping rates high for a long time to make sure inflation returns to less than 3 percent.
"I think the combination of the falling U.S. interest rates, political uncertainty and an economy that is going nowhere will keep downward pressure on the dollar," Mr. Robertson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (60%); YAMAICHI INTERNATIONAL (AMERICA) INC (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST (MONEY); UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BONDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



210 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Air-Conditioner Sales Hurt by a Mild Summer

 BODY:
Labor Day pretty much brings down the final curtain on what has been a dismal summer for manufacturers and retailers of air-conditioners, who rank high among the very few people who pine for the sweltering dog days.
Despite a late-August wave of brow-wiping heat and humidity, most of the summer in the Northeast and Midwest -- which constitute 60 percent of the air-conditioner market -- has had mild temperatures. And that, coupled with the continued weak economy, has held back sales. 
 Sears, Roebuck & Company has seen its sales dwindle in all regions except the West Coast. While the company declined to release specific numbers, Greg Rossiter, a spokesman, said sales had been very soft.
 
Sales Slow Despite Advertising
 "We've been very aggressive in our advertising, but sales still have not come back," Mr. Rossiter said.
William Trawick, vice president of P. C. Richard & Son, which has 28 showrooms in the New York metropolitan area, said sales were down 10 percent from a year ago.
"Even last summer, when there were a number of 90-degree days, we did not have a very strong season," Mr. Trawick said. "This year, we've fallen even further behind."
Discount sales "haven't made much difference," he said. "If there's no heat out there, people just aren't interested in buying air-conditioners. We'll just have to store them away until next year."
Small stores have been especially hard hit.
Alan Rosengarten, president of Ace Air Conditioning Service Corporation in Astoria, Queens, which has been in the business for more than 35 years, said sales were about half of last year's.
"It's been a rather bad season," Mr. Rosengarten said. "You almost have to give them away, the profit margin is so low. There just weren't enough days of heat, even with the past few hot, muggy days."
Analysts say manufacturers' shipments during the first six months of 1992 dropped to the lowest first-half volume since 1986.
 
Sales Are Tied to Weather
 Mary Gillespie, assistant director of communications at the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, said sales in the industry were inseparably tied to weather conditions.
The 2.4 million units shipped so far this year are within 1 percent of shipments for the comparable period in 1991, Ms. Gillespie said. "There is little movement along the chain, from manufacturer to retailer," she said.
The decision to buy an air-conditioner is often made in the early spring, she said, and now, with other demands on the family budget -- like children's return to school -- few consumers are likely to be shopping for air-conditioners.
The weak sales this year led some manufacturers and retailers to reduce their work forces.
To cut costs and increase operating profits, for instance, the Fedders Corporation, the largest room air-conditioner manufacturer in the United States, announced in August that it would close its New Jersey production operations in Woodbridge and Dover and lay off 600 employees. The company also said it would sell its Maryland compressor plant and consolidate production at its plants in Illinois and Tennessee.
Fedders, based in Peapack, N.J., had revenue of $186 million in the first half of 1991, down 14 percent from the comparable period a year earlier. In 1990 Fedders had a market share of 30 percent, according to Appliance magazine. The company's profit in the first half of 1991 plunged nearly 75 percent to $4.1 million. For the first nine months of this year, the company reported sales of $157 million and a net loss of $6.6 million.
 
Slack Demand Brings Layoffs
 Sal Giordano Jr., the chief executive of Fedders, said the restructuring "is designed to significantly lower break-even volume in the face of continuing low demand, by reducing excess capacity and fixed costs."
Gerry Beatty, the major appliance editor at Home Furnishings Daily, said the poor sales climate had been especially tough on Fedders because it manufactured only air-conditioners. "It was like having all of their eggs in one basket," he said. "They didn't have the advantage of having other appliance sales to fall back on."
But Fedders is hardly alone in feeling pain.
The Whirlpool Corporation in Benton Harbor, Mich., is having a "less than average year" in room air-conditioner sales, said Carolyn Verweyst, manager of marketing communications.
Sales were "very regionalized," she said. "In the South and Southwest, we did very well. But the Midwest had no summer at all. We are well below average." The company declined to release specific figures.
Home Furnishings Daily said the Northeast and Midwest accounted for about 60 percent of total sales of room air-conditioners. Temperatures have been as much as 5 to 10 degrees below normal in these usually high-volume areas.
Mr. Beatty said the number of air-conditioners sold this year would be only about 50 percent of the number manufactured, compared with 80 to 85 percent in a good year. The unsold stock is returned to manufacturers and dealers, who often retain the merchandise until the next season or run special sales.
About 27 million homes have one or more air-conditioners, according to Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration News, a weekly trade publication.
 
A Diversified Manufacturer
 At the Carrier Corporation in Farmington, Conn., a decrease in sales of air-conditioners in the United States has been offset by increased sales in Europe and the Middle East. Carrier also makes central air systems, commercial systems and transportation refrigeration equipment, products that tend to be less dependent on hot weather for sales. Room air-conditioners account for less than 10 percent of the company's business.
"It has been a tough year," said John Sandberg, a spokesman for Carrier. "But our earnings have been strengthened by sales of our other air- conditioning systems."
With an estimated $1.2 billion in wholesale revenue, the industry is dominated by nine major companies, which account for 99 percent of unit sales. The industry peaked in 1989 with 5.1 million shipments of room air-conditioners, according to the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, and has been losing steam since, dropping to its lowest level since 1986. In 1990 the industry shipped about 4.2 million units.
"We've probably reached something close to a saturation point in terms of households," Mr. Beatty of Home Furnishings Daily said. "Now the question becomes what do you do to stimulate sales. And the answer is just pray for heat."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Cooling Off," tracks air-conditioners shipped by manfufacturers, 1982-1991 (Appliance Magazine)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCRI (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (56%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (71%); P C RICHARD & SON CORP (56%); PC RICHARD & SON INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR CONDITIONING; SALES RETAILERS (89%); US LABOR DAY (79%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); WEATHER (76%); SHIPMENTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); CHILDREN (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



211 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Weakness At The Top

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

 BODY:
A Conservative member of the British Parliament, vacationing in America, watched the Republican Convention on television. Afterward, he said he understood the far-out character of the speeches, their right-wing extremism.
"There are speeches like that at our party meetings," he said. "Labor has its 'loony left.' We have the hangers [demanding restoration of capital punishment]. But no Prime Minister -- no Government -- adopts their policies." 
 Yes, British politics has its extreme voices. But there the analogy ends. For in this country the extreme right does not just talk. President Bush listens, and obeys.
Appointments to the Supreme Court are among the most important actions of any President. In the Bush years those appointments have been cleared with the anti-abortion movement and other elements of the right.
Appointments to all the Federal courts have been subject to ideological screening of a kind never seen before. The Justice Department and the White House have taken zealous care to pick men and women -- not many women, and virtually no blacks -- who can be expected to follow the radical legal ideas of contemporary American conservatism.
And ideological tests are not just for judges. Mr. Bush's current Attorney General, William Barr, offered a job as Assistant Attorney General to a Republican Wall Street lawyer -- and then withdrew the offer to him because the radical right thought he might be too protective of environmental regulation.
Then there is Mr. Bush's subservience to the right on the issue of abortion. He approved a Republican platform that calls for outlawing all abortions, even when pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. Only the most extreme right-to-lifers, a small minority of Americans, take that position. Mr. Bush could easily have modified it. He did not.
Moreover, he vetoed a bill to create a fetal tissue bank for use in promising research on such grave illnesses as Parkinson's Disease. He said it would encourage abortions. Even some members of Congress strongly opposed to abortion disagreed.
Mr. Bush's fanatical anti-abortion policy is especially striking because everyone knows it is an entirely opportunist position, not one based on a strongly held personal belief. He used to argue in favor of a woman's right to choose, but he turned his coat when he was Ronald Reagan's Vice Presidential candidate in 1980.
There is the real key to the power of the right in the Republican Party and Administration: the pliancy -- the weakness -- of George Bush. He seems to lack the internal values that from time to time make a political leader say No.
Four years ago Mr. Bush promised to give us a kinder, gentler America. I rather thought he meant it -- meant that the hard edge of conservatism in the Reagan years would be softened, that his Administration would move toward the center.
What we have instead is a politics of hate, exemplified by speakers the Bush people chose to feature at the Republican Convention: Pat Buchanan, Phil Gramm and Pat Robertson, who says feminism "encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children, practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism and become lesbians."
This election will probably turn on the fact that Mr. Bush has brought us "the worst economic times since the Great Depression," as Pete Wilson, the Republican Governor of California, put it the other day. But the lack of character that makes Mr. Bush bend to every wind from the right is really more important.
Other Republican Presidents of the modern era have handled the right without letting it run the show. Dwight Eisenhower did. Richard Nixon did. Gerald Ford did. On crucial questions of law and social policy, George Bush has caved in.
Now Mr. Bush is portraying himself as Harry Truman. It would be hard to imagine a more grotesquely inappropriate notion.
President Truman was a man with roots, firm in his views, without pretension. When he finished his term in office, he went home to Independence, Mo., where James Reston of The New York Times found him putting his suitcases in the attic. Mr. Bush is so rootless that he claims a hotel room in Houston as his legal residence.
Harry Truman knew who he was. George Bush hasn't a clue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONSERVATISM (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ABORTION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TISSUE & ORGAN BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



212 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Now About Job Training for the Other Workers;
Schooling and Earnings

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Twins Study Shows School Is Sound Investment" (Education page, Aug. 19), you report that Orly Ashenfelter and Alan Kreuger found a 16 percent rise in earnings for each additional year of schooling. Readers should not too quickly conclude that keeping this country's youth in school for ever lengthier periods will bring us out of our economic morass. 
 There are reasons to question that 16 percent figure. The researchers, despite controlling shared genes and family background, apparently do not hold constant measures of cognitive ability, which may directly influence both length of schooling and eventual earnings. Omitting such measures, even in a sample of twins, can result in a spuriously large association between education and earnings.
Studies suggest that the value added by each additional year of education varies by both the level of schooling (secondary versus college), and by whether or not a diploma or degree is conferred.
More important, however, is the question of why individuals with more schooling earn more. Robert Reich and John Bishop, whom you quote, share the belief, widespread among economists, that earnings differences among individuals whose educational attainment differs arise from differences in productivity attributable to schooling.
If this were true, raising average educational attainment would increase both individual earnings and gross national product. But if education serves primarily to screen potentially more productive workers from potentially less productive workers, then increasing average education only weakens the value of the screen and makes the costs of using schooling to identify more productive workers more expensive.
Worse, if educational credentials are, as many sociologists suspect, used to some extent to satisfy the irrational tastes and preferences of employers and society for traits that are not necessarily related to productivity, then, from a strictly economic point of view, increasing levels of schooling simply wastes society's resources, though it may distribute credentials more equally.
No doubt each of these propositions is to some extent true. Studies suggest that lengthier schooling raises academic achievement, and that academic achievement is associated with increased earnings. Nevertheless, while the relevance of more and better schooling to economic growth should not be entirely discounted, we should not expect education to prove to be a great panacea for business and governmental misdirection and folly.
 
MICHAEL R. OLNECK
Prof. of Educational Policy
Studies and Sociology
University of Wisconsin
Madison, Wis., Aug. 24, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; WOMEN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN F BISHOP (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1992



213 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Now About Job Training for the Other Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It was good news for a country battered by a faltering economy when the Presidential candidates began debating job training (Aug. 25, front page). It would be better news, however, if their job training and education proposals addressed the needs of all Americans who need assistance, not just a select group. 
 When President Bush announced his job training proposal, he said we "cannot afford to waste the talent of one single worker." He is right. But Mr. Bush's plan would primarily serve workers who have lost or will lose their jobs, generally because of the United States trade agreement with Canada and Mexico or because of cuts in military spending. But women who find themselves in the job market after years in the home, older Americans, people with disabilities and the long-term unemployed have job training needs that are every bit as urgent.
The plan proposed by Gov. Bill Clinton in his economic strategy for America seems designed to offer broader access to education and job training. It would establish a national trust fund that, it appears, would be accessible to more Americans. But Governor Clinton's plan is too general to assess thoroughly.
Millions of Americans want and need job training to earn a living wage. Among them are 16 million women who, after years of caring for families, must suddenly find paying jobs when they are widowed, divorced or their spouses lose their jobs -- they are displaced homemakers.
In a year in which "family values" is a central campaign issue, displaced homemakers should not be ignored. Women who have taken time to raise families need access to job training.
 
JILL MILLER
Executive Director, National
Displaced Homemakers Network
Washington, Aug. 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; WOMEN LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WOMEN (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1992



214 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
24 DIE IN SOUTH AFRICA HOMELAND 
Troops in South Africa's black homeland of Ciskei opened fire on fleeing supporters of the African National Congress, killing at least 24. The protesters had marched on the enclave, vowing to topple its ruler. A1
 
U.N. TO MONITOR IRAQ'S WATER, TOO
A United Nations weapons inspector said Iraq had accepted a proposal for nationwide water sampling to insure that it does not covertly rebuild its nuclear arms program. Iraq finds the technique less intrusive than on-site inspections. A8
 
NICARAGUAN'S BALANCING ACT
News Analysis: By removing her most feared police officials but not her army chief, a holdover from the former Sandinista government, President Chamorro is gambling that she can win back support from the United States and from Nicaraguans who voted for her without risking a Sandinista backlash. A6
 
A VILLAGE SAYS NO TO EUROPE
In a French village, Saint Cezaire-sur-Siagne, a referendum on the European union treaty arouses resentment. Few seem to understand the treaty, and they deride it for what they think Europe represents: conflict and insecure borders. A12
 
TAJIK PRESIDENT RESIGNS
Political opponents seized the President of Tajikistan at the airport and forced him to resign after more than a week of intensified protests.A3
 
ISRAELI SEES NO OFFER FROM SYRIA
Prime Minister Rabin said Syria had made no offers to establish diplomatic, cultural or commercial relations even if Israel were to return the entire Golan Heights. A8
 
Suspicions of a plot to thwart self-rule in the occupied territories. A8
 
ROUNDUP IN SOUTH KOREA
South Korea's intelligence agency said it had arrested four people and rounded up suspects after cracking a big espionage ring that was seeking to "communize" the peninsula. A7
 
Croatian militiamen play down their challenge to Bosnian forces. A3
 
A damages award in the bombing of a T.W.A. plane is overturned. A7
 
National A14-17, D13-14
 
BOTH CANDIDATES CRY 'TRUMAN'!
Both President Bush and Governor Clinton opened their fall campaigns trying to seize the mantle of Harry Truman. Mr. Bush said Mr. Clinton lacked the character to claim it, while Mr. Clinton said Mr. Bush was destroying the very middle class that Truman helped create. A1
 
NO HOME, LITTLE POLITICAL CAPITAL
In Aurora, Ill., is a corner of America where grizzled men pass idle days in tents and makeshift plastic hovels. These men, part of the hard-core homeless, say they don't think much of their political leaders and are used to being ignored by them. A16
 
Political Week: The abortion issue and political expedience. A16
 
Clinton and Gore packaged as Clinton-Gore -- a single product. A17
 
BLEAK HARVEST IN FLORIDA
When Hurricane Andrew struck, the growers in Dade County lost family businesses and fortunes that might never be recovered. The storm damaged $1 billion worth of crops and foliage plants, and for the growers, the timing could not have been worse. A1
 
FOR AIDS PATIENTS, NO SANCTUARY
The Rev. Scott Allen had dedicated his life to the Baptist church when his wife contracted H.I.V. in a blood transfusion. Since then he has lost his wife and son to AIDS, been rejected by his church and learned painful lessons about religious intolerance and AIDS. A1
 
12 SKY DIVERS DIE IN CRASH
A twin-engine plane carrying student sky divers crashed near Hinckley, Ill. All 12 people on board died in the crash. D14
 
FULL PLATE FOR CONGRESS
Congress will return from recess to an overflowing agenda, and while election-year partisanship could hamper many initiatives, there is a good chance that a few substantial measures may be approved. A14
 
THE PROFITS OF PHILANTHROPY
More than one-third of the chief executives at the nation's 100 largest charitable foundations were paid $200,000 or more in salary and benefits last year, a survey found. D14
 
The world's first recipient of a baboon liver died after a stroke. D14
 
Boston teen-agers angered officers with art of the King beating. A14
 
Suicides in the Army increased 18 percent from 1987 to 1991. A14
 
Metro Digest B1
 
AIDING TROUBLED CHILDREN
New York City's child welfare system, like others across the nation, is encountering children damaged by circumstances that were rare before the 1980's. An upsurge in homelessness, fueled by crack and AIDS, has overwhelmed networks with an influx of children facing new deprivations and traumas. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-10
 
IRON AND HEART RISK
High levels of iron in the body are a strong risk factor for heart attacks, a large study has found. A1
 
The environment-vs.-economy issue is heating up. C1
 
NASA plans a trip to solar system's last stop. C1
 
Techy and trendy, new products hum DNA's tune. C1
 
Scientists try to use plants to clean up contaminated soil. C4
 
Personal Computers C7
 
Fashion Page B10
Pants to dress up in.
 
Arts/Entertainment C12-16
An uneven summer in the pop concert business. C13
 
The little film that could. C13
 
Music: Caetano Veloso. C13
 
Word and Image: Horton Foote's "Habitation of Dragons." C13
 
"Leviathan," a novel by Paul Auster. C14
 
"A Cry From the Edge," on teachers and students. C16
 
Obituaries D15
Dorothy McKaye, columnist.
 
Sports B11-17
 
VINCENT RESIGNS
Acting in what he called the "best interests of baseball," Fay Vincent resigned as baseball commissioner, avoiding a potentially bitter legal battle with the owners who wanted to oust him. A1
 
Baseball: Analysis on Vincent resignation. B11
 
Saberhagen will finish season in bullpen. B13
 
Reaction on the resignation. B12
 
Yanks win in 13th. B13
 
Brewers shut out Indians. B14
 
Columns: Anderson on Vincent. B11
 
Football: Giants troubled by new system. B11
 
No favorites after Jets loss. B15
 
Hockey: Devils start practice. B16
 
Horse Racing: Furiously wins. B13
 
Tennis: Courier defeats McEnroe. B11
 
Dueling personalities in quarterfinals.B17
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
Editorials
Why rush to silence democracy?
 
Carnes nomination: Talk it down.
 
For New York State Senate.
 
Letters
A. M. Rosenthal: Iraq -- hope for rebels.
 
Russell Baker: Not in church, guys.
 
Chandler Burr: Hey, candidates, look at Asia.
 
Elizabeth M. Whelan: Alarm clocks can kill you. Have a smoke.
 
Steven D. Gold: California's no-tax budget is no model.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (94%); NICARAGUA (93%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (94%); NICARAGUA (93%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); DAMAGES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (67%); HURRICANES (63%); ESPIONAGE (63%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



215 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
BUSH AND CLINTON PULL NO PUNCHES IN HOLIDAY RALLIES

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton opened their fall campaigns yesterday with a struggle over the mantle of Harry S. Truman: Mr. Bush said Mr. Clinton lacked the character to claim it; Mr. Clinton asserted that Mr. Bush was destroying the very middle class that President Truman had helped to create.
Mr. Clinton chose Truman's hometown, Independence, Mo., for the Labor Day kickoff to his campaign, presenting himself as the committed champion of "the great American middle class" in the Truman tradition. In a rousing speech delivered on the courthouse steps in a heavy rain, Mr. Clinton assailed Mr. Bush as a man who did not recognize the nation's economic suffering, its aspirations or its needs, and who had no right to claim political kinship with the Democratic President from Missouri, as Mr. Bush has done in recent weeks. 
 "Harry Truman did not wake up every morning worrying about how to lower taxes one more time on millionaires," Mr. Clinton declared. "Harry Truman gave the special interests hell. George Bush is giving it to you, and it's time you took your future back."
 
Sparring in the Midwest
 Mr. Bush, campaigning at a picnic in Waukesha, Wis., acknowledged that it was an uncertain time in the global economy, but he accused Mr. Clinton of trying "to scare American workers so that he can slip into office with that failed tax-and-spend policy of the past."
The President, who has frequently called up the memory of Truman's come-from-behind victory in recent weeks, talked yesterday of Truman's leadership traits, and asserted that Mr. Clinton fell far short of them. Opening a new line of Republican attack, an energized Mr. Bush declared: "Harry Truman was a man of decisiveness, not equivocation. He'd find little in common with Governor Clinton, a man who hedges or ducks on almost every tough issue."
Mr. Bush also mounted an indirect attack on Mr. Clinton's lack of military service during the Vietnam War, an issue that has dogged the Governor from Arkansas in recent days and that prompted an angry outburst from him yesterday morning. Accusing reporters of engaging in a "feeding frenzy" over an old issue, Mr. Clinton asserted it was time for them to direct their aggressiveness toward Mr. Bush and the Iran-contra affair. [Page A17.]
The day's exchanges came as Mr. Clinton campaigned in Missouri and Ohio before ending the day in Connecticut, and Mr. Bush roared through Wisconsin and Michigan, all considered important swing states this fall. While Labor Day has traditionally marked the start of the general election campaign, the tone of the day underscored a struggle that has been going on for weeks.
The Truman debate arises in a year when voters, implicitly or explicitly, seem to be looking for plain-spoken, truth-telling leadership. Ross Perot evoked many comparisons to Truman earlier this year. And Mr. Bush, when his poll ratings sank this summer, began comparing himself to Truman, who in 1948 won re-election against the odds by beating Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York. Mr. Clinton sought yesterday to reclaim the popular memory of Truman for the Democrats.
Beyond the battle over Truman, the day offered a case study in the themes expected to dominate the next 56 days. Mr. Bush argued that his domestic plans have been stymied by a "gridlock Congress," that he was committed to ensuring "economic security" in his next Administration, and that the nation was on the mend and on the rise.
 
'Beneath the Rhetoric'
 "My opponent will kick off his campaign with a message of fear," said Mr. Bush, who began a full day of campaigning with a walk across a five-mile bridge in upper Michigan, and pressed the flesh with gusto along the rope lines this afternoon. But he urged voters "to look beneath the rhetoric and look at the facts."
Campaigning later in Hamtramck, Mich., where he marched in a Polish-American parade, Mr. Bush also defended his emphasis on foreign policy in his first term.
"There are those who tell me that foreign policy doesn't matter," Mr. Bush declared to an audience composed heavily of Polish and other Eastern European-Americans. "I say, tell that to the immigrants of America. Tell that to our children, who can sleep free of the nuclear nightmare and dream the sweet dream of peace."
Mr. Clinton argued that the nation was at a turning point and badly needed a new economic course. "This election provides Americans their clearest choice in a generation," he declared in Missouri. "A choice between hope and fear, between running in place and moving ahead, between more of the same old trickle down and embarking on a new course to guarantee old opportunities in the American Dream."
Mr. Clinton dismissed the Republicans' charge that his election would mean a throwback to "tax and spend" liberalism. "We've got to go beyond trickle-down economics," he said, "not back to tax and spend, but ahead to invest, and educate, and cooperate, and compete, and grow -- putting people first."
In recalling Truman, he said the former President had left as a legacy "the great American middle class," which he described as "the generation of Americans who went to college because of the G.I. Bill, who were able to buy a home because of F.H.A. and V.A. mortgages, who raised my generation with the hope and the opportunity that all things were possible."
"George Bush's legacy." he said, "is the destruction of that very middle class."
He added: "He has blamed his failures on everything from the Federal Reserve to Saddam Hussein, from Congress to consumers to the press. He says the recession is really over; we just don't know it. And if it's not really over, it is because we have an attitude problem. The buck doesn't stop with George Bush; it doesn't even slow down there."
 
'Waffling and Wavering'
 Mr. Bush, speaking earlier in the day in Wisconsin, set up his own Truman test. He noted that the Missouri Democrat knew what it meant to be a businessman and a political underdog, "and so do I."
The President then proceeded to mine a vulnerability that has caused problems for Mr. Clinton in the past: the charge that he is a straddler. "Whether it was the Soviet blockade of Berlin or the invasion of Korea, Harry Truman never flinched from the tough decision," Mr. Bush said. "Contrast that with Governor Clinton's waffling and wavering about whether he would have followed my lead and stood up to Saddam Hussein and his naked aggression."
Mr. Clinton managed to escape the rain at his second stop of the day, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. rally in Cincinnati, where he was joined by his running mate, Senator Al Gore. Hillary Clinton, who was at the rally as well, received the longest and most sustained applause of the event.
 
Vice-Presidential Campaigning
 Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee, spent part of his day at an event that captured the party's traditions: a rally in downtown Detroit, attended by Owen Bieber, the head of the United Automobile Workers, Mayor Coleman Young, and a host of other Democratic luminaries. Mr. Gore said the steel in the bridge that Mr. Bush had crossed in Michigan that morning was made at a U.S. Steel plant shut down earlier this year.
"Mr. Bush, you can walk across the bridge for a photo opportunity, but you've got to be thinking about the jobs of the people who built that bridge that you just put out of work," Mr. Gore declared.
Vice President Quayle, who had begun a Western swing in Colorado, criticized Mr. Gore, asserting that his rival's environmental policies would lead to higher taxes.
Mr. Quayle also told an enthusiastic audience at Mesa State College that Mr. Clinton had chosen as his running mate a man who was, when it came to spending, "bigger than Ted Kennedy, bigger than Howard Metzenbaum, bigger than Tim Wirth." Mr. Quayle also said that President Bush realized that raising taxes was a mistake, and the Democrats "just don't get it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, campaigned yesterday in Independence, Mo., in front of a statue of Harry S. Truman, while President Bush led a five-mile walk across the Mackinac Bridge in Michigan. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. A1); President Bush getting a glimpse of the crowd from backstage at a Republican Party picnic in Milwaukee. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDEPENDENCE (MO); WAUKESHA (WIS) UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US LABOR DAY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TRUMAN, HARRY S (1884-1972) BILL CLINTON (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



216 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Ruin in the Groves of Florida: Growers May Never Recover

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla.

 BODY:
Harvey Bullis stepped through the hole where his picture window used to be and stared out at 18 acres where $2 million worth of bromeliads, spiky pineapple-like plants, once bloomed. Now thousands lay scorching in the sun, amid the rubble of eight collapsed shade houses.
"There isn't a salable plant on the property," Mr. Bullis said of his crop. "But see this pup here?" He picked up a battered specimen and pointed to a little green shoot poking out of the crusted potting soil. "I could get 25 new plants off this one -- if the sun and the salt from the storm doesn't kill them. In a year, I might have something to sell." 
 Mr. Bullis's chances are not good. With broken irrigation lines, no power to pump water and no relief money in sight, Mr. Bullis, like 1,600 other nursery operators, fruit growers and farmers in Dade County, has little hope of saving what is left.
 
Why Plant at All?
 State agriculture officials estimate that Hurricane Andrew damaged $1 billion worth of crops, foliage plants and towering 40-foot palms. It smashed into processing plants, flinging off metal roofing and twisting it around trees like so much aluminum foil. It blew salt spray over vegetable fields four miles inland, making planting a bad gamble until scientists test the soil.
These farmers are desperate to get going again. But even if they get a crop by late fall, the packing industry is virtually paralyzed. Brooks Tropicals, the largest fruit producer in Florida, lost 45 percent of its buildings. The Florida City State Farmer's Market, which packs $58 million worth of vegetables a year, sustained $9 million in damages.
"We have to get back on line by the 15th of November," said Joe Mitchell, who manages the Farmer's Market. "If the farmer can't process his materials, why plant?"
 
Exotics Are Today's Debris
 While state and Federal officials say emergency funds are on the way, there is no money now for rebuilding and replanting. Because crop insurance is prohibitively expensive, only 5 percent of Dade County farmers have coverage; almost no nurseries do.
Even before Hurricane Andrew, there were serious problems. Growers were staggering from the $360 million in damages caused by the Du Pont Company's fungicide Benlate, which was recalled because it harmed crops, and 120 claims remain unsettled.
They were also recovering from the 1989 freeze that destroyed $500 million worth of winter crops. And this year promised to be a bumper crop. Then came the hurricane, which ripped through 6,000 acres of lime trees, 20,000 acres of avocados and 10,000 acres of other crops: mangoes and lichee nuts, carambolas, papayas and other exotic fruits. When the winds died down, more than $74 million worth of tropical fruits lay rotting on the ground.
For the growers, the timing couldn't be worse. They are already struggling to compete with inexpensive fruits and vegetables flowing in from Mexico, and the pending North American Free Trade Agreement, which will reduce tariffs, will make the Mexican produce even cheaper.
 
A Drop in the Cocktail Glass
 "You can produce malanga here for $8 a box; you can produce it in Mexico and deliver it here for $2 a box," Tom Kirby, the government affairs director at the Dade County Farm Bureau, said of a tropical root vegetable. "I'm afraid people are going to just settle up and get out. Why even bother to put crops in the ground?"
For the most part, the economic impact on the consumer should be minimal, according to industry leaders. The exception is the price of limes: Dade County produces 95 percent of the American crop. For everything from avocados to ficus trees, the nation will find other sources in California, Mexico and the rest of Florida, said Nelson Pew, a spokesman for Florida's Commissioner of Agriculture, Robert Crawford.
So while the rest of the country sips its gin and tonic at a slightly higher price and may have to pay a bit more for a bromeliad, the growers of Dade County have lost family businesses and fortunes that might never be recovered.
Bullis Bromeliads got its start 20 years ago, when Harvey Bullis's father, a marine biologist, found a single bromeliad growing in a conch shell in the house he had just bought.
 
Rare Green Treasures Lost
 "He pulled it out and put it in a pot, and it bloomed," Mr. Bullis said as he stared at his devastated fields. "After that, he started collecting." Soon he had a little business going, and his son, tired of commercial fishing, joined him. Bromeliads, members of the pineapple family, are known for their stiff, leathery leaves and spikes of bright flowers.
"I love them," he said. "I love their diversity, their colors, the foliage and flowers, the ease with which they grow." His wife, Patricia, who was born in Argentina, has collected many new species from South America, in the jungles of Peru and Ecuador.
"She has been doing the hybridizing and we had about a dozen new varieties that were priceless," said Mr. Bullis. "We have some tissue cultures in a lab, but some of them are gone forever." In 20 years, the family had built a $2 million business selling 300 varieties domestically and throughout the world.
But as Mr. Bullis, the father of two young children, led the way through his windowless house, pointing out the holes in the roof, the torn furniture, the fungus already growing on the kitchen ceiling, he said: "My wife hasn't seen this yet. I don't know if she'll be able to take it. She might go back to Argentina with the kids."
 
Harvest of Unemployment
 His father went north to rent a generator and two motor homes and to tell the family, which had fled to Ocala before the storm, that the three who had stayed behind were safe. Harvey and his parents and their black Labrador waited out the storm huddled for hours in a stairwell.
Now Harvey Bullis worked alone because his 21 employees, like everyone else, were struggling to piece together their own lives. But their jobs are not destined to last.
"I can keep them on for a few weeks cleaning up, but after that, I won't need that many people," said Mr. Bullis.
He wants to get back in business. He wants those 21 employees back at work. "But we need low-interest loans and disaster relief to help us," he said. "If not, we'll only be small-time operators. Under the best conditions, it will take five years to get back where we were."
 
Ripped From the Ground
 Fifty blocks north, at a 40-acre fruit grove, Daniel and Jane Lyons, who have four children, told a similar story. "This grove never looked better before the storm," Mr. Lyons said as he stood in the middle of a 10-acre mango grove. "Now it's totaled." The trees lay ripped out of the ground, their sheared-off roots and leafless branches drying up in the sun.
"We put 15 years of our life into this grove," he said. "And an investment of $550,000." There were 3,000 fruit trees on the Lyons place. "I planted every one myself so it would be done right," Mr. Lyons said.
A younger 10-acre grove of mangoes on the Lyons property fared better; some could be replanted. But like the workers at so many other nurseries and groves, the family's crew had gone north. "They wanted to help, but they lived at the Everglades Labor Camp, and now their houses are gone," explained Mrs. Lyons. "All those people have gotten on buses to Pennsylvania and Michigan."
Now the Lyonses -- like their fellow growers -- fear that there will be no Government money to help them rebuild. "We went to the Farm Bureau," said Mrs. Lyons, "and asked about disaster relief, but there isn't any for trees in hurricanes. They said all that was being discussed, but by the time anything happens, these trees will be dead."
 
Recovery Could Take Years
 And so an adjacent 6-year-old grove of tossed-up lichee-nut trees -- which can bring $20,000 to an acre -- lies burning up in the sun. "We set the price on lichees, because Mexican lichees are not as high quality," said Mr. Lyons.
Earl Wells, executive vice president of the Florida Nurserymen and Growers Association, said: "Unless there's some special appropriation of some sort, there will be very little money available for Dade County. Even with Federal cleanup money, the maximum that a grower can get is $200,000, but a lot of growers have a lot more expenses than that."
Climate still favors the nursery business in Dade County, he said. "But it may take 10 years to bring it back. And I doubt it will ever be as big as it was."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hurricane Andrew damaged $1 billion worth of crops, foliage plants and palms. Avocados rotted in an orchard in Goulds, Fla. (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. D13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS111320 CITRUS (EXCEPT ORANGE) GROVES (54%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BROOKS TROPICALS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DADE COUNTY (FLA); FLORIDA UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; AGRICULTURE; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; INSURANCE HURRICANES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (89%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (89%); DAMAGES (87%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (78%); CROP INSURANCE (76%); WEATHER (74%); CITRUS GROVES (73%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ROOFING MATERIALS (66%); IRRIGATION (54%); 

PERSON: RAVER, ANNE HARVEY BULLIS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



217 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: German Pledge Calms European Markets

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
A weekend pledge by Germany's central bank to keep interest rates steady helped calm Europe's jangled financial markets yesterday. And in Japan, stock prices fell today after dropping yesterday.
The Bundesbank made its promise on Saturday at a meeting of the European Community's finance ministers and central bank governors. The announcement appeared to signal an end to a trend of rising German rates. The rate increases have served to stifle economic recovery in other European nations and caused declines in the dollar's value. 
 But the foreign exchange markets chose to focus yesterday on the Bundesbank's resistance to calls to reduce Germany's high interest rates, not just keep them steady.
"Although it's nice to have, the pledge doesn't have that much effect," one Japanese bank dealer said. "The big question is when they are going to cut interest rates."
A huge gap between high German rates and low rates in the United States has driven the dollar to all-time lows against the mark and put other European currencies under pressure.
But the Labor Day holiday in the United States and Canada helped to keep currency trading quiet. The American dollar held fairly steady, being quoted at 1.4030 marks and 123.48 yen at the European close, compared with 1.4015 marks and 123.10 yen on Friday in New York.
With United States and Canadian stock exchanges closed, trading of equities was generally quiet yesterday.
Stocks were lower today in Japan. An the close of the trading session, the Nikkei index of 225 issues had lost 157.76 points, or 0.86 percent, to finish at 18,282.42. Yesterday, the Nikkei closed 115.12 points lower on profit taking and index-related selling as investors began to worry that the recent rally had run out of steam.
In Europe, traders are expected to remain cautious while awaiting a French referendum on the Maastricht treaty for a closer European union. The vote is set for Sept. 20.
Yesterday in London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 issues rose 10 points to close at 2,372.2. Trading was light, and follow-through buying failed to materialize after the futures market proved strong and the pound steadied.
French stocks also took early comfort from the Bundesbank pledge. But the effect was diluted by profit taking after strong gains last week. The CAC 40-share index closed just 0.32 point higher, at 1,779.30.
In Frankfurt, German shares were brought off early highs by worries about squabbles in the Bonn coalition Government over financing for economic improvements in the former East Germany. The 30-share DAX index ended 4.13 points higher, at 1,540.63.
Gold closed at $342.15 an ounce in London, up from $341.10 on Friday.
In oil markets, the October delivery contract for Brent blend, an international benchmark, was up eight cents at $20.27 a barrel in the late afternoon on the International Petroleum Exchange in London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; EUROPE GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); REFERENDUMS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



218 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Merck's decision to market lower-priced generic versions of its products signals that even the most powerful drug companies cannot ignore the possibility of sharp drops in revenue when important drugs lose patent protection. Merck is creating a generic drug division, West Point Pharma, that will market a lower-priced exact copy of Dolobid, an analgesic. [Page D1.]
GPA Group has faced a potential crisis ever since its planned initial stock offering flopped in June. With no easy solution in sight, GPA's chairman and founder, Tony Ryan, will again take over as chief executive, but he still faces a difficult fight to bring the company's finances under control and maintain its position as one of the aerospace industry's most influential companies. [D1.] 
 In its yearlong struggle to recover from the Treasury bidding scandal, Salomon Brothers swept almost every senior executive from office, built a management team with virtual unknowns, settled charges with $290 million in fines and regained profitability. Now, to steady its bottom line, Salomon hopes to build profitable investment-banking and equities businesses. [D1.]
The investment group that agreed to acquire a large stake in DWG from the financier Victor Posner says it has no plans to sell the company's diverse businesses. [D6.]
 
The Economy
New windmills are ready to take their place as an economical and important source of the nation's energy. Because of striking improvements in technology, the commercial use of these wind turbines has shown that in addition to being pollution free, they can compete with fossil fuels in the cost of producing electricity. [D1.]
Hurricane Andrew damaged $1 billion worth of crops, foliage plants and towering palms. South Florida's nursery operators, fruit growers and farmers have little hope of saving what is left. [A1.]
Consumer advocates sought to head off any effort by insurers to raise rates by using Hurricane Andrew as justification. An American International Group executive had described the storm in a memo as "an opportunity to get price increases." [D4.]
 
International
A former East German company has produced a refrigerator that it says will be free of ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons. But DKK Scharfenstein is teetering on the brink of extinction, showing that even a company working on a product the world is clamoring for is not guaranteed survival in free markets. [D4.]
Toyota introduced its first totally American-made import for sale in Japan. The Scepter station wagon, which is known as the Camry wagon in the U.S., is built in Georgetown, Ky. [D7.]
French supporters of the Maastricht treaty have been cheered by a swing in their favor, but the outcome of the vote remains uncertain because of a backlash against the European unity treaty among France's grass-roots voters. [A12.]
 
Markets
Germany's weekend pledge to keep interest rates steady helped to calm Europe's jangled markets. The announcement appeared to signal an end to the rising German rates that have stifled economic recovery in other European nations. [D1.]
 
 Today's Columns
What to call these hard times? What has been happening to America since 1989 seems momentous enough to enter history as a major economic event of the 20th century. But none of the words and phrases that described hardship in the past seem adequate today. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Geneva Steel made a name for itself as the only integrated steel mill west of the Mississippi, and as a company that remained profitable during much of the recession. Now that profitability has come to a crashing end. Market Place. [D8.]
Did AC&R Advertising hire Paul Cappelli to provide a next generation of leadership, or was it to spur provocative debate on pressing industry issues? Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GPA GROUP PLC MERCK & CO INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: GPA GROUP PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (54%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); INSURANCE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PATENTS (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); HURRICANES (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); WIND POWER PLANTS (65%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (64%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; RYAN, TONY; FOLEY, MAURICE VICTOR POSNER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



219 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Even Words Fail In This Economy

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
THE question is, what to call these hard times. What has been happening to America since 1989 seems momentous enough to enter history as a major economic event of the 20th century. But none of the words and phrases that described hardship in the past seem adequate today. And the nation awaits a name, a label that will evoke the nature of these times.
The name problem comes up often in conversations with economists. There is a pause in the conversation while they grope for a phrase, often producing a euphemism that masks the growing national alarm, including their own, over the persistently weak American economy. 
 "We have this thing that is vaguely reminiscent of the 1930's," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston. The favorite labels are "stagnation" or, a degree stronger, "persistent stagnation." Both fail to capture the gloom of millions of Americans who are falling, not stagnating, having lost their jobs or portions of their incomes.
Almost as popular among economists, but also not catching the national mood, is the very unrhythmical "structural imbalance," also known as "structural malaise." The jargon refers to the obstacles to prosperity that piled up in the 1980's, such things as over-indebted consumers and corporations, now too busy paying off loans to spend freely, and the surplus of empty, unrented office buildings, discouraging new construction.
"Adjusting to the structural imbalances will take a long time," said Robert D. Reischauer, chief economist of the Congressional Budget Office, offering little comfort to the 17 million people who are unemployed, under-employed or too discouraged to look for work. "This is a Sisyphean recovery," he said. Sisyphus, a figure in Greek mythology, was condemned to push a rock up a hill only to have it constantly roll back.
"Recession" comes easier to many Americans as their stopgap description of the national plight, and their own hardship -- until a better label presents itself. "Recession" also has its offspring: "lingering recession," "recessionary period" and "growth recession." The latter is resurrected from the 1960's, when it meant economic growth too weak to create enough jobs for all the people entering the labor force. That is a problem today, but not the only one.
Politicians are more upbeat. The Bush and Clinton camps refer to a "temporary period of slow growth" (Bush) and the "anemic recovery" (Clinton). And then there is the favorite metaphor of Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve. The economy, he says, is trying to buck a 50-mile-an-hour headwind, which he hopes is tapering off.
Among the very few who resort to the D-word -- depression -- S. Jay Levy and his son David Levy of the Jerome Levy Economics Institute at Bard College are trying to popularize the phrase "contained depression." With bank failures and other setbacks, the Levys argue, the nation is experiencing a 1930's Depression that is "contained" by Federal deposit insurance and the numerous Federal spending programs that support the economy.
Eliot Janeway, an economics consultant, is not so charitable. For him, recession becomes depression when hard times spread abroad, as they have to Europe and Japan. What's more, he says, the main criterion of a depression has been fulfilled in this country: very sharp contraction in economic activity. Mr. Janeway's contraction is certainly not evident in Government statistics, though their accuracy and timeliness are often questioned by economists, particularly Mr. Janeway.
"I have never seen a deterioration deepen and spread so insidiously without showing up in the data flow," he said.
The hard times that are so difficult to label began in the spring of 1989, when economic growth fell below an annual rate of 2 percent -- insufficient to keep down unemployment, sustain wages and generally make Americans feel prosperous.
For 11 of the 13 quarters since early 1989, the gross domestic product stayed below 2 percent growth. And in three of the quarters -- from July 1990 to March 1991 -- G.D.P. shrank, which means the economy was technically in recession. Not since before World War II has the nation had below-2-percent economic growth for so long.
Technically, the recession is over, but spiritually, it continues. Technically, the nation is enjoying a "recovery," but as the weak growth continues, that word is heard less and less. And always the weak growth suggests that the economy could contract again, restarting the recession.
"People came to use the word depression in the 1930's to mean hard times, and the hard times lasted until World War II," said Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist. "This period could also come to be called a depression, in hindsight, but I don't think it is severe enough. We need another name."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CLASSICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); MYTHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (66%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



220 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 NEW YORK CITY
 
FAILING TO HELP TROUBLED CHILDREN 
 New York City's child welfare system has been flooded with thousands of emotionally traumatized children, products of families ruined by crack, AIDS and homelessness. But the system has often failed to diagnose, let alone treat, troubled youngsters who range from depressed to suicidal, defiant to violent. Child welfare experts say that there are simply not enough services for all the children who need help. But some of the problem rests with inexperienced and poorly trained caseworkers. A1.
 
AWAITING THE CROWN HEIGHTS TRIAL
On the eve of the trial in the slaying of Yankel Rosenbaum in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, last year, Mr. Rosenbaum's family and the Hasidic community have organized and prepared. But the family of Gavin Cato, the black child whose death touched off the racial unrest in which Mr. Rosenbaum died, has slipped into oblivion, struggling to survive in a shelter for the homeless after a fire burned them out of their home eight months ago. B3.
 
FIGHT ON MEDICAL-WASTE INCINERATOR
A new $20 million medical waste incinerator in the South Bronx, still in the testing stages, has ignited a battle involving questions of political influence, "environmental racism" and safety for the residents of the heavily industrial Port Morris section. Though the fight is in many ways a local one, it has taken on special urgency with the City Council's recent approval of a solid-waste plan for the city. B3.
 
CELEBRATING WEST INDIAN CULTURE
Before the West Indian-American Day parade had even begun, you could hear the drums a mile away, pounding low and deep, hinting at the dancing to come. It was the 25th anniversary for the event in Brooklyn, a testament not only to the longevity but also the growing importance of the West Indian-American community. B3.
 
TOW TRUCK MAY HAVE BEEN DRAG RACING
Police investigators believe that a tow truck was drag racing at more than 80 miles an hour when it collided with a compact car in Brooklyn on Sunday morning, killing a 27-year-old woman, law enforcement official say. B4.
 
3 DIE IN TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE CRASH
Three people were killed and three were seriously injured when a speeding car struck a divider on the Triborough Bridge, the police said. The accident forced the closing of the four Queens-bound lanes for several hours. B4.
 
 REGION
 
A SOGGY SEASON COMES TO AN END
As the summer vacation season drew to a close, many were lamenting that a season expected to be hot and sunny instead turned out cool, overcast and rainy. The weather made for a luxuriantly verdant landscape, with rivers running high and butterflies abounding; but the succession of soggy weekends left would-be beachgoers sour and pale, and disappointed many fishermen, vintners and others whose livelihoods depend on the outdoors. B9.
 
SEEKING THE ORIGINS OF A BLOODY FIGHT
Broad Street, the commercial heart of Palisades Park, N.J., was abuzz with rumor and innuendo as both the police and neighborhood residents tried to piece together the events leading to a knife fight Sunday night that left two high school football players dead and two others wounded. B9.
 
Our Towns by Andrew H. Malcolm B9
Chronicle B8

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Teachers' Pay" shows average salary for public-school teachers in 1990-92 in metropolitan region and in U.S. (Source: National Education Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: WEST INDIAN-AMERICAN (72%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); RACE & RACISM (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (72%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (72%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (72%); RELIGION (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); APPROVALS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



221 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Builders and Foes Using Bronx Incinerator as Test

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
Daniel Politi's eyes beamed from under his white hard-hat as he pointed to two 80-foot smokestacks at the top of a new $20 million medical waste incinerator in the South Bronx. "My first question," he asked proudly, "is which stack are we emitting from?"
Mr. Politi, an official of Resource Management Technologies, a New York City company that built the plant with Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, wanted to show that the incinerator was clean and safe. And in fact, there were no visible signs of smoke from either stack, even though ton after ton of bloody bandages, surgical supplies and other hospital waste was being consumed in a double furnace below. 
 But even without smoke there is fire. The incinerator, still in the testing stages, has ignited a battle involving questions of political influence, "environmental racism" and safety for the residents of the heavily industrial Port Morris section. Though the fight is in many ways a local one, it has taken on special urgency with the City Council's recent approval of a solid-waste plan that relies on mass incineration within city limits.
The plant, a joint project of Resource Management Technologies, or Remtech, and Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, is intended to process medical waste from an unspecified number of hospitals, clinics and doctors' and dentists' offices within the city. Its builders say their work can stand as a pilot program for larger, high-technology incinerators, like the 3,000-ton-a-day waste-to-energy plant proposed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. That plant would be 62 times as big as the one in the South Bronx, which will burn 48 tons a day and is also part of the city's overall waste plan.
Opponents say their work can also stand as a model. They believe their data and tactics for organizing residents, environmental groups and politicians can be used against other incinerators where community opposition is high. Opponents recently won a temporary restraining order that blocks testing at the plant. The judge who issued the order, Howard R. Silver of State Supreme Court, has scheduled a hearing for Thursday to settle issues relating to safety and to determine whether state and city environmental agencies properly issued permits for the start-up tests.
Both the developers and opponents say they look forward to their day in court. Each side believes it is right and that it alone knows what is best for the public's safety and its waste policy.
"This plant has become a precedent-setting test with regard to a combination of sensitive issues," said Robert M. Herzog, a former Koch administration official and the president of Remtech. "If this plant can be stopped at this late date, who will invest the hundreds of millions required to build a major resource recovery plant?"
Planning for the plant began in 1988 with two events. The state passed tougher emissions standards for the roughly 110 small incinerators at hospitals throughout the city, which led many to close. And Bronx-Lebanon Hospital began looking to build a more modern incinerator.
Ronald A. Klempner, Remtech's general counsel, said that his company and Bronx-Lebanon discussed building a regional incinerator to replace the smaller incinerators that closed. The result would be the only medical incinerator not physically attached to a hospital in the city and one of the two largest in the state.
State and city regulators, he said, "have indicated that it is easier to regulate a single incinerator with the best available control technology and continuous emission motoring systems than it is to regulate hundreds of individual hospital incinerators without such protections."
The developers chose a site at 138th Street and Locust Avenue in the Port Morris Industrial Park, one of only a handful of sites in the city that is already zoned for incineration.
 
Too Close, Neighbors Say
 Opponents of the project say that the plant is still too close to the schools and apartments west of the Bruckner Expressway, about a quarter mile from the plant. They charge that building the plant in their community, which is populated largely by black and Hispanic residents, is "environmental racism" -- a long-standing complaint that needed but potentially hazardous public projects like incinerators and transfer stations tend to be concentrated in poor and minority neighborhoods.
They also note that the area is already plagued with drugs, violence and more health problems, especially respiratory ailments, than most other parts of the city.
"We're a lot less politically organized," said Carlos Padilla, a businessman on 138th Street, where the powder-blue incinerator sits, and a member of the Bronx Clean Air Coalition, which is fighting the incinerator. "We're not as strong economically. We're a disaster area here."
Opponents also say that the project was built in secrecy. They say that although it was granted permits by the state Department of Environmental Conservation and the city Department of Environmental Protection in 1989, residents did not know of it until construction began last summer.
And opponents say they believe that some help came from Alberto Urbina, the chairman of Community Board One, who served as a labor consultant to Remtech while he sat on the board. Mr. Urbina is under Federal investigation for his role in the project. Remtech and various governmental agencies have been supoenaed for their records, say public and private officials.
 
Dispute Over Notification
 Mr. Urbina did not return repeated telephone calls to the community board office. A spokeswoman for Otto G. Obermaier, the United States Attorney for the Southern District, refused to confirm or deny the inquiry.
Remtech also refuses to discuss Mr. Urbina, but its officials say that they did not sidestep any procedures for notifying the community. They note that few people attended a public hearing in July 1989 and say that various local officials, including Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx, knew of their plans but chose not to oppose the plant.
Clint Roswell, a spokesman for Mr. Ferrer, said that the Borough President was now vehemently opposed to the plant and had not been informed initially about its size.
 
'People Feel Hoodwinked'
 "I think everybody's concerns are first safety, and then the second part is that people feel hoodwinked a little bit," Mr. Roswell said. "You wouldn't get this uniformity of outrage from groups of all political backgrounds, of all political stripes, if indeed the state had been forthright or if the developers of this project had been forthright."
To tangle the saga further, the developers say that the opposition has also been less than forthright. Mr. Padilla, a partner in American International Medical Supplies, has been trying to build a 60-ton-a-day autoclave on 138th Street. Before the medical waste were either recycled or taken to a landfill, an autoclave would sterilize it with high-pressure steam. Like incineration, the process has both supporters and detractors.
For his part, Mr. Padilla said that his plans were no secret and that he had proposed the autoclave in a direct challenge to both the incinerator and to the notion that burning is the only way to dispose of the waste.
 
Questions About Safety
 "I've put a lot of time and effort into the community and if fighting that incinerator turns out to be a benefit to me, I'll take it and I'll address that with anybody," he said.
Occasionally lost in the battle are questions about the plant's safety. Opponents say that even if no smoke is visible the plant will release dangerous levels of lead and other heavy metals as well as toxins like dioxin.
The developers and the state say it is the safest plant money can buy, and that all emissions are well below Federal and state standards. Mr. Roswell said that until the plant's plans were reviewed fully and publicly in court, no one would know.
"The technology may be good," he said. "We still have to see."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're a lot less politically organized," said Carlos Padilla, a businessman on 138th Street, where the hospital-waste incinerator sits, and a member of the Bronx Clean Air Coalition, which is fighting the plant."We're not as strong economically. We're a disaster area here." (Budd Williams for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Bronx showing site of incinerator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIES; BRONX-LEBANON HOSPITAL CENTER (NYC) RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIES (80%); BRONX-LEBANON HOSPITAL CENTER (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIES; BRONX-LEBANON HOSPITAL CENTER (NYC) BRONX-LEBANON HOSPITAL CENTER (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC); PORT MORRIS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; MEDICAL WASTES; INCINERATORS; CITY COUNCILS SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); HOSPITALS (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); JUDGES (60%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



222 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Summer Was Here, but Time Wasn't Right;
Labor Day Letdown Seems Just as Great Though the Season Was Rainy

BYLINE: By ANDREW L. YARROW

 BODY:
The tomatoes at Henry Balsamo's fruit stand along Route 202 in Bantam, Conn., "haven't been quite right" this summer, he says. But neither has much else, in a season already being remembered throughout the Northeast as the summer that wasn't.
As the summer vacation season drew to a close yesterday, with pools closing and parents preparing reluctant children for school, many people were lamenting that a season expected to be hot and sunny instead turned out cool, overcast and rainy. The weather made for a luxuriantly verdant landscape, with rivers running high and butterflies abounding; but the succession of soggy weekends left would-be beachgoers sour and pale, and disappointed many fishermen, vintners and others whose livelihoods depend on the outdoors. 
 The equally dreary economy upset the fortunes of some, like Mr. Balsamo -- though it helped some local innkeepers whose rooms were full of savings-minded New Yorkers vacationing closer to home.
"The summer just never got here," said Bob Ransom, an owner of the Rivendell Winery in New Paltz, N.Y., where grapes for his hybrid wines like Seyval Blanc are three to four weeks late. "I kind of wish it would still arrive, but I guess it's too late."
 
'Spotty' Fishing Season
 Judd Barnes -- whose charter-fishing boat, the Seahawk III, sails into Long Island Sound from Westbrook, Conn. -- also blamed the weather for a "spotty" bluefish season, not to mention a costly string of cancellations.
As for the dearth of good-sized fish, he said: "Some of us suspect the influx of fresh water into the Sound, with the rain runoff. The water has also stayed colder than usual. Normally, at this time of year, the water's 72 to 74 degrees, and now it's about 67."
But while the season has seemed far from typical, in fact June, July and August were only slightly wetter and cooler than normal, meteorologists say. The average temperature at La Guardia Airport, 73.4 degrees, was only eight-tenths of a degree below normal, and the rainfall, totaling 11.75 inches, was nine-tenths of an inch above the average year.
"Part of the reason for the perception that it was cold and wet was because we've had a lot of hot, dry summers recently," said Paul Knight, a meteorologist at the Penn State Weather Communications Group. "This is the first summer with below-normal temperatures since 1986."
 
More Rainy Days
 On the summer's hottest day, July 14, the mercury only reached 93 degrees in New York City. There were only seven days when temperatures climbed into the 90's, compared with 12 during an average summer, Mr. Knight said.
Although the total rainfall has been only slightly above normal, there were 27 rainy days in July and August in New York, compared with the average of 18, and nine weekends in June, July and August had at least one rainy day.
Even when it has not been raining, the sun has been in hiding. Typically, Mr. Knight said, New York skies are cloudy 59 percent of the time between sunrise and sunset in June, July and August. Definitive statistics are not yet available, but he said, "I'm fairly confident this summer is somewhere around 70 percent."
One obvious casualty was local beaches. "Attendance was very reduced this summer," said Linda Dockeray, the administrator of Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx, which includes Orchard Beach.
On the Jersey Shore, business was "a little off" at many seaside inns in Cape May, said Dave Hand of the town's Chamber of Commerce.
And at Jones Beach on Long Island, which attracted a record five million people last summer, officials have counted only a little more than 4.3 million people so far this season.
The dampness has been a mixed bag for others, like Garrett DaRoss, the assistant manager of Riverrunning Expeditions, which rents canoes and rafts on the Housatonic River in Falls Village, Conn.
"With all the rain, most people I guess aren't that hardy to go canoeing," he said. "But at least we haven't had the problem we did last year, when we had seven weekends without significant rain and there wasn't enough water in the river for much excitement."
At least one park regular, Sarah Elliott, who leads birdwatching walks in the New York City parks, was more than pleased with the weather.
"It was good for birding, but even better for butterflies, and the dragonflies were spectacular," she said. Two exotic species never before seen in New York -- the Anax longipes, or red-tailed darner, and the Tramea calverti, or striped glider -- were sighted on Staten Island and Manhattan, she said.
Many country inns within a few hours' drive of Manhattan had a good season. Kees Adema, the owner of the Boulders Inn on Lake Waramaug in New Preston, Conn., said, "People seem to be staying closer to home, taking shorter vacations, spending less money and less time traveling."
But whether at the beach, in the city or in the country, the sense of summer's coming to an end has an inevitable, bittersweet quality.
"There a sense of wanting to get everything in before this weekend is over -- playing tennis, biking, going boating," said Jim Murtaugh, a New York actor who also has a home on Woodridge Lake in Goshen, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the end of another summer approached, Jim Murtagh gathered with his wife, Alice, son Patrick and daughter Erin at water's edge Sunday on Woodridge Lake in Goshen, Conn. While the cloudy, wet summer weather made for lush foliage, many summer activities were postponed; People were not too thirsty with the cool cloudy weather over the holiday weekend. For Becky Woodin, left, and Danielle Hall, that meant little business at their lemonade stand on Route 202 in Bantam, Conn. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; RAIN; LABOR DAY US LABOR DAY (90%); CHILDREN (76%); METEOROLOGY (75%); FISHES (75%); SPORT FISHING (74%); WINERIES (74%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); 

PERSON: YARROW, ANDREW L PAUL KNIGHT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



223 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: A New Era for Windmill Power

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIVERMORE, Calif.

 BODY:
A new generation of windmills that Don Quixote could never tilt at is ready to take its place as an economical and important source of the nation's energy.
Because of striking improvements in technology, the commercial use of these windmills, or wind turbines as the builders call them, has shown that in addition to being pollution free, they can now compete with fossil fuels in the cost of producing electricity. 
 As a result, officials of utility companies from around the world have come, cash in hand, to California to inspect the tops of the ridges here at the Altamont Pass, for example, where new machines that look like sideways helicopters married to computers are harnessing the wind.
In recent months, utilities serving upstate New York Illinois, Iowa, California and the Netherlands have decided to try to use the wind to produce electricity commercially.
 
Competing With Fossil Fuels
 Kingsley E. Chatton, president of U.S. Windpower, which operates 22 new-generation windmills here, said the economics of wind power was at the point where it "will compete with fossil fuel." Others agree.
Edgar A. DeMeo, in charge of renewable-energy research at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nationwide research consortium based in Palo Alto, Calif., said the work in California represented a significant advance. Mr. DeMeo's organization, which is supported by dues from utilities, carries out wide-ranging investigations on new technologies and ways to improve existing technologies involving all sorts of power sources.
"We're beyond Kitty Hawk and into the jet age," he said.
The turbines are a successor to the thousands of crude, flimsy windmills put up by optimistic pioneers of the early 1980's, machines that generated more tax credits than electricity and by now have largely disappeared.
 
Capturing More Energy
 The new windmills capture far more of the wind's energy -- a surprisingly tricky feat. Wind varies greatly, but electricity must be so uniform that a user can, for example, set a clock by it. Uniformity has been largely achieved with durable, high-technology adjustable fiberglass propeller blades directed by computers.
Wind turbines cannot replace fuel-burning plants completely because the wind cannot be ordered to blow. But it can be counted on enough over time to produce substantial amounts of energy and thus reduce conventional generation with its emissions of sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, and carbon dioxide, the biggest greenhouse gas.
Wind can also be used to save the water behind hydroelectric dams to last through dry seasons. In some locations, wind is reliable enough to be counted on at certain hours of the day or seasons of the year.
The newest generation of windmills thus crosses an economic threshold that will allow their use in many areas of the country, although it will take several years before they produce a large fraction of the nation's electricity. Mr. DeMeo said he would not be surprised to see windmills generate 10 percent in 30 years -- about equal to the share now produced by hydroelectricity.
He predicted that successive generations of windmills, building on the combination of sophisticated blades and computer control, would be bigger and would not need costly items like gearboxes, lowering costs further.
 
A Cold, Noisy Wind
 On a recent morning here atop the Altamont Pass, about 30 miles east of San Francisco, the wind, at 30 miles an hour, was strong enough to whip open a car door as soon as the passenger began to open it. The turbines whined at different pitches, while the cold wind whistled through the 80-foot towers covering the bare hills. None of this seemed to bother the cows or the ground squirrels, but for a visitor it was altogether eerie.
"Kind of a nice day, isn't it?" Chuck Ferguson, a field engineer, said as he opened the power electronics box at the base of one tower. It was generating enough electricity to run about 80 houses with their central air-conditioners going, meaning the 22 machines here can power thousands of homes and businesses.
That's a lot of tilting.
Mr. Chatton of U.S. Windpower said the cost of wind-turbine production, from capital investment to operation and maintenance, was about five cents a kilowatt-hour, roughly half the average retail price for power nationwide. A kilowatt-hour is enough electricity to light 10 100-watt bulbs for an hour. At an oil-fired plant, that much electricity costs about 5 cents in fuel alone, apart from capital investment, operation and maintenance expenses. So a power company that now uses oil could save money by building windmills.
 
Cheaper to Build Windmills
 At existing plants that run on coal and natural gas, generation costs are lower, and the money to build the plants has already been spent. But in many locations, building new wind turbines may be cheaper than building new fossil-fuel-burning plants.
Coal-burning utilities with no need for new capacity also have an incentive to turn to wind. The Federal Clean Air Act limits their sulfur dioxide emissions, often requiring them to buy cleaner fuel at a premium, or to buy "emissions allowances" from utilities that are cleaner than the standard required. Windmills do not pollute.
Not that they are completely benign. Some complain that windmills clutter up the landscape. And in some places, environmentalists have said windmill blades have killed birds.
Here at Livermore, U.S. Windpower has painted some blades with a striped pattern to see if this will keep birds away. Company officials say they have not found dead birds at any of the machines, striped or not.
Still, windmill use is spreading. U.S. Windpower, a subsidiary of the Kenetech Corporation, has recently announced these projects:
*A joint venture with the Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Company to develop 250 megawatts worth of windmills, that is, about 600 windmills. A megawatt is a thousand kilowatts.
*The sale of a 50-megawatt plant to the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, which is seeking to replace the output of a retired nuclear plant.
*The construction of a 25-megawatt plant in Holland, with the power to be bought by Energiebedrijf voor Groningen en Drenthe, known as E.G.D., and the sale of a 50-megawatt plant to four utilities in the Pacific Northwest.
U.S. Windpower also plans to have two turbines installed by Nov. 1 for the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation in upstate New York, to see how they work in cold weather.
The Iowa-Illinois and Pacific Northwest deals are particularly significant because of the role utilities will play, as owners or co-owners, rather than buyers of power. The utilities can also supply money for capital costs at far lower rates than start-up high-technology companies can obtain.
 
The Last Windmill Maker
 U.S. Windpower, the only American company that builds windmills, has outlasted the others and has 138 patents on its equipment. Some smaller concerns, however, do assemble windmills from imported components. U.S. Windpower's parent, Kenetech, is owned in part by its management and in part by the Hillman Company, Allstate Insurance, F. H. Prince & Company and a variety of other, smaller investors. Last year, the company had revenues of about $350 million.
To produce alternating current at precisely 60 cycles a second, the standard for this country since early in the century, most traditional windmills have been designed to turn at only one speed. If the wind is not strong enough to turn the blades at that speed, no power is produced. If the wind blows more strongly, anything above the minimum amount of energy needed to produce electricity is wasted by the blades. Worse, on a really windy day the machines cannot work at all because they would be damaged.
 
Combining Two Technologies
 The new generation of machines is a marriage of aerodynamics and microelectronics. U.S. Windpower adapted the idea of variable-pitch blades from airplanes and developed a system to let the blades and the generator turn at whatever speed the wind allows. Computers open and close electronic circuits to smooth out the air flow over the blades and create electric current that alternates at the right cycles.
The result: while older machines produce no power until the wind reaches 14 miles an hour, the new ones start making electricity at 9 miles an hour. The older ones shut down at 45 miles an hour; new ones work at up to 60.
Another innovation is size, with new machines having a bladespan of about 100 feet, up from 56 feet in previous designs. That means four times as much power, at a total cost only about two and a half times more. There have also been improvements in the blades, which are now 2,000-pound fiberglass structures derived from sailboat masts.
The ridges where U.S. Windpower's turbines stand are between California's sunny central valley and the cloud-bound coast. Every day, the sun warms the air in the valley and as the hot air rises, cooler air from the coast rushes in to fill the void. This gives the site more predictable winds than most other places.
But the "wind resource," as proponents call it, is not peculiar to California. In fact, by national standards, California is not particularly windy: a strip of states from North Dakota to Texas has far more wind. And although electricity is usually generated within a few hundred miles of where it will be consumed, Texas alone could, theoretically, generate 36 percent more kilowatt-hours from wind than are used in the entire continental United States.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new generation of windmills is poised, supporters say, to compete with fossil fuels in the production of electricity. These new "wind turbines" in Livermore, Calif., are controlled by computers to help produce a steady voltage regardless of changes in the wind's speed. (pg. D1); U.S. Windpower operates 22 new-generation windmills at Altamont Pass, about 30 miles east of San Francisco. From a control room, Kevin Coleman monitors computers that adjust the windmills' propellers. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
Map/Graph: "Where the Winds Are" shows the wind potential of the 48 contiguous states, according to what percentage of the nation's electricity needs could be generated by the winds in each state over the course of a year. (Source: U.S. Windpower) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KITTY HAWK CARGO (54%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ELECTRICITY; WINDMILLS WIND ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ACID RAIN (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); HELICOPTERS (55%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



224 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Gulf War's Cost to Arabs Estimated at $620 Billion

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 7

 BODY:
The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the resulting Persian Gulf war have cost Arab countries $620 billion, according to an authoritative report issued on Sunday.
The Arab Economic Report, an annual study by the Arab Monetary Fund, the Arab League, the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries and other leading institutions, said the destruction of oil wells and pipelines, telecommunications, roads, buildings and factories cost Kuwait $160 billion and Iraq $190 billion. 
 The report, released at a central bankers' meeting in the United Arab Emirates, said that in addition, the governments of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the gulf emirates made $84 billion in direct payments to the United States, Britain and France for military expenses. Officials said payments to Egypt and Syria, who were also members of the coalition opposing Iraq, may have totaled $3 billion to $5 billion.
Direct logistical support for the 600,000 American and allied troops in Saudi Arabia between August 1990 and March 1991, plus the rush to build military airstrips and camps, cost another $51 billion, which was paid largely by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
Arab officials said the balance was accounted for by estimates from data supplied by several countries, including Jordan, Egypt, Yemen and the Sudan, which suffered severe economic blows from the invasion and the war.
The report said the war contributed to a drop in gross national product for the 21 Arab countries estimated at 1.2 percent in 1990 and 7 percent in 1991.
Much of this decline came from the suspension of oil exports from Kuwait and Iraq and an inflation rate that rose to an average of 20 percent a year as imports and exports were disrupted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); ORGANISATION OF ARAB PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (72%); ARAB MONETARY FUND (84%); ARAB MONETARY FUND (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); ORGANIZATION OF ARAB PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARAB MONETARY FUND (84%); ARAB MONETARY FUND (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); ORGANIZATION OF ARAB PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: PERSIAN GULF WAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DESERT STORM (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); INFLATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



225 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Managua Seesaw: U.S. vs. Sandinistas

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Sept. 7

 BODY:
By removing her most feared police officials, but not her army chief, President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro has gambled that she can win back support from the Bush Administration and the people who elected her without risking an outpouring of rage and possible violence from the Sandinista Front.
Saturday's action, in which the Police Chief, Rene Vivas, was replaced by a less controversial officer, albeit also a Sandinista like Mr. Vivas, showed that Mrs. Chamorro is trying to reduce the power of the Sandinista Front in a very gradual way. Mrs. Chamorro defeated the front at the polls in February 1990. 
 She and her closest advisers clearly feel that, given that the Sandinistas still control most of the weapons in the country, this is the only way change can be accomplished.
But the other side of the issue is whether the Bush Administration, in a difficult election year, will feel politically able to free the $104 million in aid to Nicaragua that has been held up since last spring, an action that could offend the right flank of the Republican Party.
 
Resistance From Helms
 Most of what remains of a $731-million, two-year aid package was suspended because Sen. Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, said that the Sandinistas still dominated the country and that the Government was dragging its feet on the promised return of private property confiscated during the Sandinista era.
State Department officials, though generally supportive of the Chamorro Government, have expressed concerns privately on points raised by Mr. Helms. But the issue became more apparent last week when the State Department sent a delegation to discuss the issues with Mrs. Chamorro. The officials reportedly pressed for the removal of Sandinistas from the leadership of both the army and the police.
Mrs. Chamorro's chief minister and son-in-law, Antonio Lacayo, said in a radio interview today that the Government was not going to make any more changes now and was "confident" that the United States would respond to the latest moves by renewing aid.
Nicaragua, left the second-poorest nation in Latin American by more than a decade of war and socialism, needs the money soon to continue the stabilization program that abruptly halted runaway inflation 18 months ago.
After the Pacific coast of Nicaragua was lashed last week by giant waves that killed at least 116 people, the Bush Administration freed $5 million that had been suspended by aid officials separately from the $104 million.
 
Shadows of the Past
 Mr. Vivas, the police chief Mrs. Chamorro replaced, is identified with the most conventionally revolutionary and radical branch of the Sandinista Front. After the Sandinistas came to power in 1979, he was a member of the inner circle that worked closely with Interior Minister Tomas Borge in setting up the police and the state security apparatus -- with ample advice and training from Cuban security experts.
Mr. Borge is described by other Sandinistas today as the leader least able to accept the collapse of the Communist bloc, from which the Sandinista Front derived most of its support while in power.
But it was not really ideology that made Mr. Vivas such a subject of controversy to many of those who supported Mrs. Chamorro's election and who have since soured on her Government because of its alliance with the Sandinistas.
It was, rather, the fear that they could not count on police help if Sandinista-organized mobs took over their property. There were also allegations that under Mr. Vivas, some provincial police chiefs were responsible for abusive and often fatal treatment of the demobilized Nicaraguan resistance, or contras.
 
New Man Swears Fealty
 The new police chief, Fernando Caldera Azmitia, is a Sandinista, but he was careful to say after his swearing in that he puts his loyalty to Mrs. Chamorro's Government above loyalty to his party.
That is the same attitude taken, publicly at least, by Gen. Humberto Ortega Saavedra, the army commander who was retained by Mrs. Chamorro after secret negotiations following her election and who has since forged a close working relationship with Mr. Lacayo, the chief minister.
When Mr. Lacayo said Saturday that no further changes were planned, he implied there would be no change in his collaboration with General Ortega, whatever the attitude of the United States.
General Ortega has taken care to distance himself publicly from the actions of his brother, Daniel, whom Mrs. Chamorro defeated for the Presidency and who has incited much of the mass violence in Nicaragua since. The general, once the Sandinistas' chief revolutionary strategist, also says he has been converted to liberal democracy and free-market economics, the tenets of the Chamorro Government.
 
The Complex Ties That Bind
 But Nicaragua is a country where almost every policy decision is made on the basis of personal relationships, where everything that happens is interpreted as part of a master conspiracy, and it is never clear who is manipulating whom.
It is also a country where officials traditionally use their positions for personal business gain, and many Nicaraguans say the most binding tie between Mr. Lacayo and General Ortega is their joint business affairs.
In the long run, this thinking goes, General Ortega may end up using his growing wealth and his relationship with Mr. Lacayo to resuscitate what might otherwise become a political cadaver -- the Sandinista Front.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (71%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (52%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (52%); SANDINISTA FRONT (93%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANDINISTA FRONT (93%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE (PRES); VIVAS, RENE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JESSE HELMS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



226 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Geneva Steel Sees A Return to Profits

BYLINE: By Jonathan P. Hicks

 BODY:
THERE WAS NO shortage of doubters, five years ago, about the prospects of a shuttered steel operation in Vineyard, Utah, that was bought from the USX Corporation and resuscitated by a group of investors operating under the name Geneva Steel. The plant had none of the efficient steelmaking technology known as continuous casting, and it was still capable of producing steel in open-hearth furnaces not unlike those built at the turn of the century.
But in the years since that acquisition, Geneva Steel has made a name for itself, not only as the only integrated steel mill operating west of the Mississippi River, but also as a company that remained profitable during much of a recession that has largely battered its counterparts in the steel industry. 
 But that profitability came to a crashing end, mainly because of fierce price competition and declining demand, in the company's current fiscal year, which began in October of last year. In the quarter ended in December, the company lost $4.8 million. The loss narrowed to $2.9 million in the quarter that ended in March and declined further in the quarter that ended in June, to $1.9 million.
While the losses have thinned, they have nonetheless jolted a company that had been profitable in every quarter since a group of investors, led by Joseph Cannon -- now a candidate for the Senate from Utah -- bought the company for about $44 million.
In most of those years, the company took advantage of its geographic position to ship to steel customers throughout the West, primarily in California. The company has some notable strengths. Transportation costs of steel can amount to as much as 20 percent of the price a customer pays, making Geneva's steel far more attractive to buyers in, say, northern California, than steel made in a USX or Inland Steel mill in northern Indiana. Also, when the investors bought the operation from USX, they were no longer bound to costly long-term contracts for raw materials and labor.
Further, the company restructured its customer base. The company's products had previously gone almost exclusively to a USX sister plant in California. But in the last five years, Geneva has formed relationships with steel service centers -- the industry middlemen that cut and form steel to their customers' specifications -- to provide Geneva's array of plate steel, used largely in construction, and hot-rolled sheet steel, which winds up in everything from aircraft jetways to furniture springs.
All of this took place during a modernization program that saw Geneva spending a total of more than $250 million in the last five years on new equipment and overhauls of older operations. The efficiency has been enhanced, although Geneva officials decline to provide information on the number of worker hours needed to produce a ton of steel, the industry's bellwether measurement of efficiency.
What ultimately hurt Geneva was the same combination of circumstances that crippled other steel producers in recent years. Prices for many steel products are now nearly 30 percent below their level of just two years ago, and demand for some products has remained lackluster. The company's stock, which traded at $21 in January, closed on Friday at $8.625 on the New York Stock Exchange. And for Geneva, plans to build a vital continuous caster have been shelved until the economy rebounds.
To add to its woes, the extensive modernization program has led to huge debt, making it difficult for Geneva to borrow at a time when profits have vanished. "About 55 percent of their capitalization is in debt, and their financial flexibility is limited right now," said Jordan M. Estra, an analyst with Oppenheimer. "Their operations are efficient, except for casting, but they have been losing money for four consecutive quarters."
The company says that with the modernization in place, it can keep its costs low and return to profitability with an improved economy. "Our outlook is promising because steel sales are tied to the general economy," said Robert Grow, president. "The economy is slowly climbing out of the recession, and we will reinvest the money we make into the steel mill, and our outlook will improve."
Analysts seem to agree. Mr. Estra said he expected the company to report a loss for fiscal 1992, compared with earnings of $1.17 a share a year earlier. But he expected the company to come closer to breaking even in the last quarter of the fiscal year. Moreover, he said he expected that a price increase would come next year and that the rise would hold firm as demand for steel grows. "Assuming the economy recovers, and considering their improved operating costs, I expect them to earn 75 cents a share in the 1993 fiscal year," he said. "If the economy comes back, I expect they will, too."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (93%); X (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (68%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (57%); 

COMPANY: GENEVA STEEL MARATHON OIL CORP (93%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (91%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENEVA STEEL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (68%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (57%); 

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); METALS & MINERALS WHOLESALERS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P JOSEPH A CANNON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



227 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Model Made in U.S. Is Offered for Sale in Japan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 7

 BODY:
The Toyota Motor Corporation today introduced the Scepter station wagon, the company's first totally American-made import for sale in Japan.
The car, which is known as the Camry wagon in the United States, is built by Toyota Manufacturing U.S.A. in Georgetown, Ky. 
 Toyota describes the wagon, which has a price in Japan of about $24,000, as having all-American features like roominess and roof rails. The company has set a sales target of 700 units a month.
The Scepter will face stiff competition from domestically produced models. But what Toyota fails to achieve in terms of the bottom line, it hopes to make up through improvements in its corporate image.
 
Trying to Ease Trade Friction
 At a reception introducing the Scepter, Toyota made no secret of its hopes to emerge as a champion of American workers. An official read a congratulatory statement from Gov. Brereton Jones of Kentucky that hailed Toyota as an "exemplary corporate citizen."
The company's president, Tatsuro Toyoda, said the Scepter should "increase imports from the United States, contribute to local industry there and promote greater partnership, considering the importance of U.S.-Japan relations."
Importing the Scepter is part of Toyota's overall "international cooperation program" to ease trade friction. Under that program, Toyota plans to import a total of $1.4 billion in auto parts from the United States and to raise local production to $3.8 billion by 1994.
The company is following the example of the Honda Motor Company, Japan's No. 3 auto maker after Toyota and Nissan. Honda now sells about 1,400 American-made cars a month in Japan.
 
Countering the Stereotypes
 Japan has been under pressure to buy more American cars and auto parts, as automobiles account for about three-quarters of Japan's $43.4 billion trade surplus with the United States.
Both Toyota and United States officials are emphasizing the quality of the Scepter and other American-made cars in an effort to reverse the image in Japan of American cars as overpriced, oversized gas guzzlers that quickly fall apart.
But the officials were less eager to acknowledge the shaky prospects for expanding Japanese car sales, which have been shrinking in an economic slowdown. Car sales fell 3.9 percent last year, to 5.74 million vehicles. It was the first decline in 10 years.
Since station wagons of Scepter's size are a relative novelty in Japan, the Scepter is being marketed as a recreational vehicle for the weekend driver who avoids making long commutes on busy roads.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Toyota introduced its Scepter station wagon in Japan yesterday. The car, which is known as the Camry wagon in the United States, is Toyota's first totally American-made import for sale in Japan. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (97%); TM (NYSE) (97%); 7203 (TSE) (97%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (97%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); SALES PLAN (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



228 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Off the Trail -- Visits With Americans;
Tent City for Homeless That Politicians Ignore

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AURORA, Ill., Sept. 4

 BODY:
"What's wrong with our tent city?" Charles Campbell asked under the stars, an open fire shadowing his anger in the night. He had to wonder loud above the noise of a freight train that rumbled past his corner of America, a muddy patch in a tent encampment for the homeless in back of the old Aurora incinerator plant.
Grizzled men were silhouetted against the half-moon horizon at the end of another idle day. The camp gathering of a few dozen homeless people seemed a time-warped tableau from bindlestiff Depression days -- a scene that smacked of the old Hoovervilles more than of the fresh changes that the politicians are promising troubled voters again out beyond the hard times swathing Mr. Campbell's tent. 
 "What's wrong with this tent city?" he persisted under the stars, a 47-year-old jobless steelworker imagining but not quite envying the new tent cities being headlined after the hurricane disaster in Florida.
"These people could use some of that help and attention," he said, gesturing across the lackluster Aurora camp of small and large tents and makeshift plastic hovels.
 
The Hard-Core Homeless
 Doug Ford, a tent dweller, said the attention of the current crop of politicians was not worth it, anyway. "Ain't seen an exciting politician in my lifetime," he said, conceding that at the age of 25 he was a bit extra despairing now that he was a part of the hard-core homeless. This is a category beyond most welfare aid that is so rock-bottom that it was not even included statistically in the latest bad news from Washington about how the number of poor Americans has soared to the highest levels in a generation and how the purchasing power of most Americans is shrinking.
In the dark of the Aurora camp, a man who identified himself as Pete, a pipe fitter jobless and homeless after 19 years of good living, offered a proper Beckett touch to the theme of hapless life that dominated the conversations past midnight. "Homelessness is like a golf course," he said. "It's there but not everybody can play." As if sensing his peers' squinting curiously in the dark, Pete said he meant politicians can't afford to care; they are counting on the homeless "hiding in plain sight" among 250 million Americans, he said.
Mr. Ford preferred more of a Steinbeck analysis. "People out there don't realize how easy it is to go from something to nothing, plain and simple," he said, describing losing his job, then his house to creditors, and shipping his kids out to in-laws.
"Out of work four weeks, and -- boom -- here I am," he said, contributing to the campfire consensus that, since Aurora's homeless have been suffering such a slow-motion, undramatic disaster, the incinerator camp has no instant value for the campaigning politicians working their way toward Election Day.
 
A Long-Running Hurricane
 If there were a hurricane named Aurora it would have a huge bedevilling eye and no departing edge, according to the measure of long-running failures in factories, farms and families witnessed by Rose Marie Lorentzen, a Sister of Charity nun who began to quietly take care of Aurora's homeless a decade ago.
She converted the incinerator plant to Hesed House, with charity winter bedrooms for the homeless. Then, three years ago, she found she had to pitch a tent city for the increasing numbers of summer homeless, and lately she sees an even worse symptom of the problem in the growing numbers of full families showing up at the door like Okies lost in time.
"Ten years this disaster has been going on, Sister Rose Marie," said Mr. Campbell, who lately gets by on tent charity and a few hours of manual labor on a nearby traveling carnival. "I mean, that's a depression, right? Bring back the W.P.A. At least they put a roof over your head and a hot meal in your stomach."
To the contrary, there have been goverment budget cuts lately crimping the operations of Hesed House and its homeless program, Public Action to Deliver Shelter. Illinois has perhaps 100,000 of the nation's estimated three million homeless, a figure widely criticized as conservative by field workers. The word through the night in the Aurora camp, where the first fall chill could be felt in the earth, was that harder times are a certainty.
 
Focus on Middle Class
 "From what I see, I'm honestly afraid the homeless total could double this year in the state," said Diane D. Nilan, the center's program director who has been busy lately with a nationwide voter-registration drive for the homeless.
Homeless organizers say the Presidential contenders have been notable for rarely mentioning the problem this year. "In the '88 campaign it was used a lot as a symbol of the economic issue," said Ted Houghton at the New York Coalition for the Homeless. "But now the economy has gotten even worse, and the politicians have to focus on the middle class worrying about losing their shirts next, not on helping the homeless."
The people in the Aurora camp do talk politics, and with not much more cynicism than can be heard elsewhere in America these days. They routinely fly the American flag outside a tent. "I haven't forgot the country," said Mr. Campbell before delving into a charity breakfast of some excess midnight pizzas from a local restaurant.
"Hell, I got to be for Clinton," he said, offering a reason that has nothing to do with the Democrat's studious promises and populist lures. "I like him because he's suffered everything you can suffer, got pounded plenty with scandal in the campaign, but he stands right there telling them, 'Hey, I'm still here, and I'm running and I'm winning.'
"I got to like that," Mr. Campbell said, celebrating simple endurance as looking like a virtue these nights in the Aurora camp.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Campbell, a 47-year-old jobless steelworker who lives in a tent city in Aurora, Ill., behind the old Aurora incinerator plant. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AURORA (ILL); DADE COUNTY (FLA) UNITED STATES (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HURRICANES (72%); WEATHER (72%); TRAINS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X CHARLES CAMPBELL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



229 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Will Auction Bills This Week

 BODY:
Treasury financings during this holiday-shortened week are limited to the regular auction of new three- and six-month bills. The auction is normally held on Mondays, but because of Labor Day it has been rescheduled this week for today. By late in the day Friday, the rate on the three-month bill outstanding was 2.9 percent and the rate on a six-month bill was 2.95 percent.
Government agency issues due this week include a $500 million floating-rate note issue that will be priced today. The notes mature March 3, 1993, and will be priced off the three-month Treasury bill, with the interest rate adjusted the day after each weekly Treasury bill auction. 
 The following fixed-income issues are scheduled for this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
WEDNESDAY
Elizabethtown Water Co., a unit of E'Town Corp., $15 million of debentures due in 2022, A-3/A. Competitive.
Georgia Power Co., a unit of Southern Co., $195 million of first-mortgage bonds due in 1999, A-3/A-, $150 million of first-mortgage bonds due in 2002, A-3/A-. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Patrick Petroleum Co., 1 million shares of $10 convertible preferred series B. Paulson Investment Co.
Patriot Global Dividend Fund, 600 shares of Dutch-auction preferred at $100,000 each, Aa-2/AA.Salomon Brothers.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., a unit of Transco Energy Co., $125 million of notes due in 2002, Ba-3/BB+. First Boston.
 
(Credit: MCM CorporateWatch)
(Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's)
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Florida Department of Management Services, $167.2 million of revenue refunding bonds. Competitive.
Los Angeles Municipal Improvement Corp., $65.5 million of revenue-refunding bonds. Competitive.
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $184.5 million of revenue-refunding bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Industry Urban-Redevelopment Agency, $123.7 million of tax-allocation refunding bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Connecticut, $80 million of general-obligation bonds. First Boston.
Denver, $390 million in airport system revenue bonds. Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.
Illinois, $200 million of revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Massachusetts Health and Education Facilities, $230 million of revenue bonds for Beth Israel Hospital. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
New York Local Government Assistance Corp., $392.5 million in sales tax appropriation bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Oakland, Calif., Redevelopment Agency, $94 million of senior tax allocation refunding bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Tucson, Ariz., $73.6 million of water and sewer refunding revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); SO (NYSE) (69%); GDP (NYSE) (68%); PLCC (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (91%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (69%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (66%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY-AMERICAN WATER CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); SOUTHERN CO (69%); GEORGIA POWER CO (69%); PATRICK PETROLEUM CO (68%); GOODRICH PETROLEUM CORP (68%); PAULSON CAPITAL CORP (67%); TRANSCO ENERGY CO (66%); TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPELINE CO LLC (66%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (64%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); SALES TAX (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); US LABOR DAY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



230 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Anne-Marie Schiro

 BODY:

Rediscovering Italy
The Italians are coming. In force. To celebrate the quincentenary of Columbus's landing in the New World, an army of designers, jewelers, artisans and manufacturers will be taking part in a series of fashion shows, parties and exhibitions to spur Americans' interest in things Italian.
Not that Americans don't know about Italian products, but there is something called a recession going on, and Italy is feeling it, too. Although exports of wine and machinery to the United States are growing, sales of clothing, shoes and jewelry have all declined in the last five years. For the first six months of this year, Italy's share of the American import market was just 2.3 percent, down from 2.6 percent in 1990. 
 So the Italian Trade Commission, whose goal is to promote Italy's position in the world market, is sponsoring all manner of activities across the United States in a program called "1992: Discovery of Italy."
"The purpose is to promote Italy's image," said Giovanni Battista Peruzzi, the trade commissioner for the United States, Canada and Mexico. "It's an invitation to America to see what Italy has done recently. It's really a rediscovery of Italy."
The program's major event is taking place in New York, starting next week at the Seventh Regiment Armory, Park Avenue at 67th Street, which is being transformed into an idealized version of a 15th-century piazza. Called Piazza Italia, it will be open to the public from Sept. 15 through Oct. 9, with artisans' demonstrations and displays of clothing, fabrics, jewelry and crafts.
Fashion is, of course, an indispensable part of the project, and several major events are planned.
It all starts Monday night with Rock 'n' Rule, an invitation-only party given in honor of Gianni Versace by Bergdorf Goodman and the Italian Trade Commission. After a dinner for 300 (at $1,000 a ticket), the Piazza will resound with a fashion extravaganza: Versace's men's and women's clothes shown with live models, music, videos and special effects. That explains the "Rock" part; the "Rule" remains to be seen. Tickets to the show alone are going for $150, and the evening benefits the American Foundation for AIDS Research.
As a sideline to Piazza Italia, Bergdorf's is opening a new Versace boutique on its second floor next Monday and will fill its windows with the designer's clothes.
Back at the Piazza, a retrospective called "Valentino: 30 Years of Magic" will run from Sept. 23 to Oct. 9. On Sept. 22, a formal preview will be followed by dinner and dancing for 300 guests, who are being asked to make voluntary contributions to AIDS charities. Guests are also being asked to dress in black and white, Valentino Garavani's favorite combination.
Henri Bendel will use the Piazza on Thursday evening, Sept. 24, for a cocktail party and a fashion show of the Genny, Byblos and Complice collections for fall.
Italian jewelry, which has a 40 percent share of the American jewelry market, will take center stage at a benefit auction at the Piazza on Sept. 23. Called "A Jewel for Life," the auction will offer 32 pieces of jewelry made by Italian goldsmiths from designs by Cher, Luciano Pavarotti, Ivana Trump, Chris Evert and Yo-Yo Ma. The raw materials alone are said to be worth $500,000, so the take should be considerable.
Three celebrity auctioneers -- Beverly Sills, Tony Randall and Robin Leach -- will join a professional auctioneer to add fun to the occasion.
 
New Biagiotti Boutique
 What better time for Laura Biagiotti to open her first boutique in New York? Next Monday is the target date for the bronze and glass doors at 4 West 57th Street to let in the first shoppers. The store will showcase the Italian designer's ready-to-wear and accessories and will house a salon run by Sergio Valente, the Roman hair stylist who once presided at Bergdorf Goodman.
There will be more from Italy later. For now, basta!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (96%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GIANNI VERSACE SPA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ITALY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (96%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (72%); FABRICS (72%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); CHARITIES (67%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHIRO, ANNE-MARIE

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



231 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Summer Pop Circuit Sees No End to Recession

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE

 BODY:
Some of the biggest names in rock took their acts on the road this summer and pumped a bit of vitality back into the ailing pop concert scene. But even their spark fell far short of a full revival. Genesis, for instance, was unable to fill large sections of some stadiums, and tickets for megastar acts like U2, Bruce Springsteen and the joint tour by Guns 'n' Roses, Metallica and Faith No More were selling more slowly than expected in some cities.
"The recession hit everybody at every level," said Gary Bongiovanni, the editor of Pollstar, a magazine that covers the concert industry. 
 "There are bright spots," he said. "In 1992, we were blessed with a higher caliber of artists. But the impact of the recession, coupled with the traditional seasonal summer overload of concerts, resulted in a lot of shows' doing less-than-anticipated business. Artists considering doing two or three dates at an arena may have done only one. They sold out and looked great, but in better times they might have done more shows."
 
Hard Lessons
 This summer's uneven season follows the worst summer in memory for live pop performances, one that put a number of promoters out of business and left others in a state of near-desperation.
Last summer, stadium tours were almost nonexistent as bigger acts postponed record releases and tours. Fans, who had less discretionary income because of the recession, stayed away. There were cancellations and bankruptcies.
Compounding the situation were higher costs of producing shows, resulting in large part from promoters' fierce competition for the talent that was available, which drove up artists' fees and ticket prices.
It was anticipated that this summer's lineup would spell relief. Not only were such proven concert performers as Genesis, U2, Guns 'n' Roses and the joint concerts of Eric Clapton and Elton John mounting stadium tours, but Bruce Springsteen was also back, playing arenas, and last year's most successful package, the Lollapalooza tour, returned with a lineup that included the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Ice Cube, Soundgarden, Pearl Jam, and the Jesus and Mary Chain.
Concert promoters, meanwhile, had learned a hard lesson. Competition for artists remained intense, but many promoters were more prudent in negotiating and securing artists' contracts. Ticket prices remained fairly stable, averaging about $25. The country superstar Garth Brooks charged only $18.50 for his show last weekend at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J.
Pollstar reported that the top 20 tours took in $238.7 million in the first six months of this year, a 15 percent increase over the $208.6 million generated during the same period last year. For some promoters, the stadium tours this summer made the difference.
Jim Koplik, the president of Metropolitan Entertainment, a large concert-promoting concern in Montclair, N.J., said it was "a great summer" because his company had a total of 11 stadium shows, at Giants Stadium and in upstate New York, with acts including U2, the Grateful Dead, Genesis, and the tour of Guns 'n' Roses, Metallica and Faith No More.
However, Mr. Koplik said that business at arenas and amphitheaters, which he called the core of the concert business, was just "mediocre to good." Stadiums have a seating capacity of 60,000 or more, compared with 10,000 to 20,000 seats in amphitheaters, the warm-weather stages whose whole year depends on the success of summer shows.
Genesis appeared in stadiums from Texas to Massachusetts and was the top act for the period from May 1 through July 31, according to Amusement Business, a trade magazine for the entertainment and amusement industry. The English group's gross of $23.9 million for 23 shows reflects the impact that stadium tours can have on the bottom line. The No. 1 group for the same period last year was Guns 'n' Roses, which did 29 shows in smaller venues and grossed $13.2 million.
Yet even Genesis wasn't always a sure bet. After a sold-out concert at Foxboro Stadium near Boston in late May, the group's keyboardist, Tony Banks, said in a telephone interview: "The recession here in many ways is more apparent than in parts of Europe in the way it affects a concert tour. In pockets of the country, we don't sell as many tickets as we thought we would. In other places, we sell more. We're doing better in Europe this time than in America. I reckon the American tour will be subsidized by the European tour."
Following Genesis in Amusement Business's top 10 for May through July were the Grateful Dead, the Cure, Jimmy Buffett, Guns 'n' Roses with Metallica, Eric Clapton solo, Garth Brooks, Harry Connick Jr., Rush and Neil Diamond. The tour of Guns 'n' Roses and Metallica, which was highly anticipated by both fans and promoters, later missed several scheduled appearances after Metallica's singer and guitarist, James Hetfield, was seriously burned by the band's onstage fireworks and after W. Axl Rose, the lead singer of Guns 'n' Roses, was reportedly suffering from throat problems. The Dead, which have toured consistently and been a top money-maker on the road, canceled some dates recently because Jerry Garcia, the band's leader, was ill.
 
Veterans and 'Baby Acts'
 There were some positive signs. Established performers like Bonnie Raitt and James Taylor, who have strong followings, did well at amphitheaters. And country artists like Reba McEntire, Billy Ray Cyrus and Wynonna Judd were playing to increasingly wider audiences, said Ben Liss, executive director of the North American Concert Promoters Association, which comprises the country's leading promoters.
Mr. Liss also said "baby acts," newer performers with strong potential drawing power, had emerged, including the Black Crowes, Pearl Jam and Faith No More. He and others said that developing artists who can attract future audiences was one of the biggest challenges in the concert business.
"The headline mega-megastars, there are fewer and fewer of them," said Louis Messina, president of Pace Music Group and Pace Concerts in Houston. "The B-level acts are the backbone of our business."
Mr. Koplik said that the industry suffered from a cyclical scarcity of strong acts as artists take off four or five years between tours, compared to one year in the 1970's. Genesis's tour was its first in five years, and Mr. Springsteen's shows were his first with a band since 1988.
"And radio stations are not breaking as many artists as they used to," Mr. Koplik said, adding that there would be fewer shows this fall than in past years. "The concert business primarily depends on album rock radio. Out of every three artists played on album rock radio, one artist is already dead, one band is no longer together or touring, and only the third artist is putting out a current product and going on the road."
Many rock radio stations have a "classic rock" format, and much of the music is 20 to 25 years old.
"We need to help build long-term careers for artists who are emerging," Mr. Liss said. "That is the most critical question we as an industry have to deal with. Record companies, talent buyers, agents, managers and record shops must work together. We all have the same consumer, and we're all working for the same artists."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Clapton, shown performing last month at Shea Stadium, a stop on his summer concert tour. (Adam Scher/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMUSEMENT BUSINESS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMUSEMENT BUSINESS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); ELTON JOHN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



232 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Little Film That Could: A Hollywood Cinderella Goes to the Festival

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Sept. 7

 BODY:
This town thrives on Cinderella stories, and there's probably not a better one this year than that of "Zebrahead."
It is not scheduled for theatrical release until late October, but this film, which cost only $2 million and has a first-time director and writer, and a cast of largely unknown, even untrained, performers, has been gathering momentum for months. It won a top prize at the 1992 Sundance Film Festival, is an entry in the New York Film Festival, as well as those in Deauville, France, and in Toronto, and has been promoted by film makers as diverse as Peter Guber, the chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, and Oliver Stone, who hardly needs an introduction. 
 Anthony Drazan, the 37-year-old screenwriter and director, said the early interest in his movie, which has autobiographical overtones, had left him stunned. "To be recognized this way is fantastic," he said. Mr. Drazan recently met with Steven Spielberg, another "Zebrahead" fan, and signed a two-picture contract with Amblin Entertainment, Mr. Spielberg's company.
 
One Director, 2 Coasts
 The bespectacled, aggressively confident Mr. Drazan shuttles between small apartments in Greenwich Village and Venice, Calif. Though the story is more or less based on some of his high school experiences on Long Island, Mr. Drazan has set his film on the fringes of Detroit, just because he liked the looks of the area. The drama focuses on a white teen-ager named Zack, who attends a racially and economically mixed high school and whose best friend is a black youth named Dee. The fragile racial boundaries that define the friendship are shaken when Zack has an affair with a black girl related to Dee.
Those who have seen "Zebrahead" praise the performances by a largely unknown cast of young performers and the street culture details, the fragmented music and the high school cafeteria dialogue that rings true. "The last thing I wanted was a slick look with teen-age stars," said Mr. Drazan, seated in a Beverly Hills hotel lounge and sipping the requisite mineral water.
"After all the time I spent on the research in high school hallways, knowing what I did when I was growing up, I knew that although I was making this movie from a white, middle-class point of view, it had to be faithful and truthful to this community, and this required finding original talent," he said.
 
The Cachet of Oliver Stone
 Mr. Drazan, who received a master's degree in 1985 from New York University's film school, originally wrote the movie for a workshop at the Sundance Institute in 1987. The script floundered and was eventually optioned by the producers Jeff Dowd, Charles Mitchell and William F. Willett. But it was only when Oliver Stone read it and lent his name as one of the executive producers that "Zebrahead" achieved instant cachet.
"It's not an Oliver Stone picture," said Mr. Drazan. "It takes a totally different sensibility. I'm proud to say Oliver likes the film as much as he does."
Perhaps the most significant supporter of the movie was Larry Estes, the senior vice president for acquisitions of Columbia-Tri-Star home video, which financed such independent films as "Sex, Lies and Videotape," "The Waterdance" and "One False Move." The movie has the imprimatur of Sony Pictures Entertainment, whose chairman, Peter Guber, is happily endorsing it (a respectable film that costs only $2 million is an instant candidate for a miracle movie), and whose subsidiary the Triumph Releasing Corporation is distributing it.
 
The Names of the Unknowns
 The cast of "Zebrahead" includes Michael Rapaport, a Brooklyn-born actor, as Zack; DeShonn Castle, a graduate of Yonkers High School with no previous acting experience, as Dee, and N'Bushe Wright, as Nikki, who has an affair with Zack. Ms. Wright grew up in Brooklyn in Bedford-Stuyvesant and is a dancer who studied with the Alvin Ailey and Martha Graham troupes. The only known actors in the cast are Ray Sharkey, who plays Zack's philandering father, and Helen Shaver, in a bit part as one of Mr. Sharkey's girlfriends.
Like Zack, who grows up without a mother, Mr. Drazan lived through turbulent teen-age years. His mother, Carol Klein, died of an embolism at the age of 37, when he was 11 years old and the eldest of three boys. The family lived on Long Island, in Cedarhurst, and Rockville Centre. His father, Stephen Drazan, ran a hardware and houseware business.
By his own choice, Mr. Drazan had a peripatetic high school career, attending Lawrence High School in Lawrence, L.I., South Side High School in Rockville Centre, Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts and South Side High a second time. "My father was a very patient man and quite supportive of this weird tangent that his oldest son took," he said. "Whenever I got too happy, I wanted to leave."
Mr. Drazan said of the film: "I was a version of that kid in the film, circa 1973. I lived in a small home with my grandparents in one bedroom, my father and I sharing another bedroom and my two brothers sharing a third. We lived in an integrated area of Cedarhurst. I started getting into the music, like the kid in the film, and made friends with the black kids. Some of the things in 'Zebrahead' came out of that experience."
"What I tried to create, from the beginning to the end, from the music to the casting to the shooting style, was a kind of mosaic, a fabric of life, that brought together different points of view, different worlds," he said. "The idea was to explore the points of view of very different characters and create some kind of single piece."
Mr. Drazan attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he majored in English, and later sold T-shirts at the Public Theater in New York. By his own admission a terrible salesman, he was dismissed for spending too much time watching rehearsals.
"I didn't know what I could do," he recalled of that period. "I was 23 or 24. I wandered around the East Village. I finally enrolled at N.Y.U. School of the Arts because when in doubt, in moments of crisis, go back to school. I frankly had a semi-bogus portfolio. I had very little knowledge of what movies were."
 
Looking Ahead
 At N.Y.U., though, Mr. Drazan who won several awards for a short film about a boy with his single mother on the beach in Far Rockaway. "It was very lyrical and very derivative of Mr. Truffaut's films," he said. But the movie got him an agent and led to several unproduced films that he wrote under contract. With "Zebrahead" -- whose title is a racial reference to black-and-white couples, or to mulattoes -- Mr. Drazan's future seems more secure. His next film will probably be a comedy, set in New York, about a yuppie who witnesses the killing of Paul Castellano, the reputed head of the Gambino crime family, in front of Sparks Steakhouse on the East Side of Manhattan.
In the meantime, the entry of "Zebrahead" in the New York Film Festival on Oct. 8 and Oct. 10 is especially sweet. "After all those years of trying to get into the festival when all the films were sold out," he said. "I could never get in. And now -- this. Wow!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Drazan, who wrote and directed "Zebrahead," his first film. (Gary Moss for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: ZEBRAHEAD (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (57%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (57%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FILM SCHOOLS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); 

PERSON: DRAZAN, ANTHONY; WEINRAUB, BERNARD STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



233 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: NASA Plans an Economy Flight to the Solar System's Last Stop

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Out in the twilight toward the edge of the solar system, Pluto is receding deeper into space. Three years ago, the planet came as close as it ever gets to the Sun in 248 years, and astronomers managed to catch their best glimpses ever, imperfect views of an odd little world.
Smaller than Mercury or even Earth's Moon, Pluto is covered with ice and enveloped by a thin atmosphere of methane. It is tipped over on its side and travels an eccentric orbit, crossing the plane of the other planets at a 17-degree angle and ranging out a lonesome 4.6 billion miles from the Sun. Pluto's recently discovered companion is a satellite half its own size, Charon, forming what scientists characterize as a double-planet system. 
 Not much else is known. For in the broad reconnaissance of the solar system over the last three decades, Pluto is the only known planet not visited by spacecraft. Scientists were beginning to despair that the opportunity would pass as Pluto headed out of reach.
But now the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is pressing to win approval for what it describes as a simple, affordable mission to Pluto. Two small spacecraft with cameras and a few essential instruments could be launched as early as 1998 on flights taking them close to the planet in seven or eight years. Optimism is running high that the Pluto fast flyby, as the mission is called, just might come about.
Describing the plan in an interview, Dr. Robert L. Staehle, the Pluto team manager at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said: "We know there are nine planets out there. We've been to eight. So let's finish the job."
At the World Space Congress in Washington last week, scientists and NASA officials spoke enthusiastically of the Pluto plan, saying it would be a worthy demonstration of the emerging philosophy of mounting missions that are "better, faster, cheaper." The two-spacecraft project is estimated to cost no more than $400 million, compared with the billion-dollar-plus price tags on recent science missions.
The new space agency administrator, Daniel S. Goldin, has given the plan his wholehearted support. After he took office in April, he ordered the crash study leading to the plan. "He made us realize the low-budget way was the only way we were going to get anything new started," a NASA official said.
Whether the mission is included in the next budget, given the nation's tight financial squeeze, is uncertain. But supporters were encouraged when Vice President Dan Quayle, who heads the policy-making National Space Council, echoed the language of the new mission-planning philosophy. He told the space congress, "We need to stretch our scarce resources by figuring out how to do things faster, better and cheaper."
The same approach is being taken in planning further exploration of Mars. A spacecraft called Mars Observer is to be launched Sept. 25 to orbit Mars and study its geology and meteorology. Eventually, humans will go to Mars. In between, though, NASA is proposing a more modest undertaking, establishing a network of small automated research stations covering the planet.
Starting at the end of this decade, the Mars Environmental Survey, or Mesur, would put 16 landers on the red planet to observe the surface, weather and seismic activity in the canyons, volcanic terrain and frozen polar regions. Planners have been told the entire network must be kept under $1 billion, with no more than $150 million spent in any one year. The space agency hopes to begin the project with money in the 1994 budget.
Actually, Dr. Wesley Huntress, director of the space agency's solar system exploration division, pointed out, this approach is a return to the ways of the 1960's.
When a premium was put on doing what could be done and doing it fast, to beat the Russians if nothing else, small Mariner spacecraft carrying a simple camera and a few instruments were developed in two or three years and dispatched to Venus, then Mars and Mercury. The Pioneers did the same for Jupiter and Saturn in the early 1970's. The Voyagers were a scaled-down version of more complex spacecraft that lost out in the budget wars, but one of them was durable enough to tour the outer planets all the way to Uranus and Neptune.
Then, as the quick-look strategy of planetary exploration gave way to more elaborate return missions seeking more detailed knowledge, the size and complexity of spacecraft increased, development time doubled and tripled and costs soared. The cost of the planned Cassini mission to place an orbiter around Saturn rose to $1.7 billion before NASA was forced to scale back the project this spring. A companion mission known as Comet Rendezvous-Asteroid Flyby, or CRAF, got so expensive it was canceled.
"It became clear it will be a long time before we get another Cassini-class mission," Dr. Huntress said.
A NASA advisory panel headed by Dr. Alan Stern, a planetary scientist at the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio, examined a number of proposed missions to Pluto in the last two years. A Cassini-size spacecraft was rejected as being too expensive and thus unattainable. At the other extreme, a tiny craft weighing less than 80 pounds and containing little more than a camera was considered too small to be scientifically rewarding.
 
Plan for Quick Mission
 In July, Dr. Stern said, the panel finally winnowed the proposals down to the so-called fast flyby mission involving two 330-pound spacecraft.
As conceived by Dr. Staehle's engineering team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the two nearly identical craft would be launched days apart on a direct trajectory to Pluto. This would be the fastest way to get there, taking as little as seven years. Alternative methods involving a gravity-assist swingby of Jupiter would add several years to flight time and limit launching opportunities to coincide with Jupiter's alignment with Earth every 13 months.
The direct flights across three billion miles of space would require the brute force of the nation's most powerful launching rocket, the Titan 4 with a Centaur upper stage. But NASA planners said use of the Russian Proton rockets was also being seriously considered. Dr. Huntress noted that the Protons were reliable, capable and cost less, although their use might extend the required flight time by a couple of years.
The two spacecraft would arrive at Pluto a few months apart, one acting as a backup in case of a breakdown by the other. If both are operating, this would permit the photographing of both hemispheres of Pluto and Charon in especially fine detail. Observations would extend over a month, as the craft approach and depart the planet, but the closest encounter for the best photography would last only a few hours.
In deciding on the minimum acceptable payload for the spacecraft, Dr. Stern's advisory panel drew up a list of the highest-priority scientific objectives. One priority was to characterize the geology and surface features of both Pluto and Charon; so there should be a lightweight imaging system, in this case a camera with extremely sensitive electronic light detectors for the dim conditions so far from the Sun.
Another priority, examining the planet's surface composition, would be fulfilled with a mapping infrared spectrometer. And for analyzing the density and constituents of Pluto's atmosphere, there would need to be an ultraviolet spectrometer. In addition, the craft's radio could supplement these studies by transmitting signals through the planet's atmosphere and inferring its nature by the way the signals are distorted.
 
A 15-Pound Package
 Following these guidelines, spacecraft designers have pared the scientific instrumentation down to a 15-pound package by eliminating any lower-priority items. For example, there will be no magnetometer because it is unlikely that Pluto is large enough to have magnetic fields and no dust detectors because there is no evidence of particle rings circling the planet.
Astronomers, praising the concept, said that even such a bare-bones spacecraft would produce a wealth of information about Pluto and its moon. Even with today's best telescopes, Pluto shows up as not much more than a pale, fuzzy sphere.
"We certainly expect Pluto's going to knock our socks off," Dr. Stern said.
Dr. Richard P. Binzel, a planetary scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is an authority on Pluto, said: "Think of how much we learned about Triton in just the one Voyager flyby, or about any single moon of Jupiter or Saturn. That's exactly what we should be getting from a Pluto flyby."
Indeed, scientists like Dr. Binzel are keenly interested in examining images of Pluto to see if, as some think, the planet resembles Triton, the largest moon of Neptune. According to this hypothesis, Triton was an independent planet much like Pluto, but it wandered too close and was captured by Neptune's powerful gravity. A somewhat similar close encounter could explain how Charon, exceptionally large in relation to its parent planet, came to orbit Pluto. Charon's surface appears to be covered with water ice.
Charon was not discovered until 1978. In Greek mythology, Charon ferried souls across the river Styx to the nether world, which was ruled by the god Pluto. Pluto the planet was itself not observed until 1930, the result of an intense search for the giant Planet X suspected to exist somewhere on the fringes of the solar system. The gravitational perturbations on the orbits of Uranus and Neptune, which fed speculation of a massive Planet X exerting a far-reaching tug, have yet to be explained; Pluto is much too small to jostle planetary neighbors.
 
An Appealing Idea
 The most appealing aspect of the mission for scientists is its promise of the fastest possible trip to Pluto.
"We would like to see Pluto before Pluto freezes out," Dr. Binzel said. That is, as the planet travels deeper into space, it is getting colder and colder in the diminished sunlight. At some point, perhaps in 15 to 20 years, Pluto's thin atmosphere might disappear as the methane freezes and falls as snow on the planet.
A key to reducing costs, mission planners said, will also be drastically reducing the time spent developing and building the hardware. This removes the temptation to overdesign systems instead of relying on available technologies. In this case, the plan is to take advantage of recent advances in electronics, including some technologies developed for the Strategic Defense Initiative, the anti-missile program begun by the Reagan Administration, and to use a leftover antenna from the Viking project to Mars in the 1970's.
In a report on these exploration concepts to the space congress, Dr. Staehle's team reflected on how necessity was forcing a return to the old let's-get-going attitude of the early space age and this could lead to more efficient operations.
"The longer we spend preparing for a mission," the team observed, "the greater the cost will be, as people's efforts get devoted to 'what-if' studies, 'improvements,' trade-off analyses and the like. Given time, we can always make the product better, at a cost. Our question is what is 'good enough,' and then how do we proceed rapidly with implementation with a minimum of deviations?"
That, planetary scientists and spacecraft engineers hope, is the way to get to Pluto soon and complete the initial reconnaissance of the Sun's family of planets.
 

GRAPHIC: Diagrams: "Springtime on a Cold, Cold Planet," shows make-up of Pluto's atmosphere. Pluto shines more brightly than our own Moon, puzzling astronomers because methane in its atmosphere would normally lose its ability to reflect sunlight from chemical reactions with ultraviolet radiation. Fresh deposits of methane "ice" may explain the puzzle. Even on Pluto, summer might be warm enough to vaporize methane, which would condense and fall back to the surface in winter, freezing on the surface as reflective ice.
 
"Spacecraft for a Long Journey," shows construction of proposed spacecraft design. Space scientists want to fly by Pluto before the planet heads out of reach. NASA is proposing a relatively low-cost mission in which two simple spacecraft with cameras and essential instruments would reach Pluto in seven or eight years. Supporters hope the mission will be included in the next budget and completed before the 2020's, when the planet's atmosphere freezes onto its surface for two centuries.

"Clues to the Features of a Faraway World," shows how astronomers have observed Pluto. Scientists have slowly learned about Pluto by noting differences in their observations as the planet and its moon changed position relative to other planets and stars. For example, astronomers discovered Pluto's atmosphere by observing changes in a star's light when Pluto passed in front of it in 1988. The starlight dimed gradually, then abruptly, as light does when it is refracted and absorbed by gases in an atmosphere. Now scientists hope to learn how the atmosphere forms and exactly what it contains.
 
Sources: "Exploration of Pluto," (International Astronautical Federation); Scientific American) (pg. C1)
 
Drawings (pg. C1)
 
Photo: Some scientists suspect that Pluto resembles Triton, Neptune's largest moon, shown in a photomosaic of images taken by Voyager. (Jet Propulsion Laboratory) (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PLUTO (97%); MERCURY (92%); EARTH (92%); EARTH'S MOON (92%); NEPTUNE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PLUTO (97%); MERCURY (92%); EARTH (92%); EARTH'S MOON (92%); NEPTUNE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; PLANETS; PLUTO (PLANET); METHANE; PHOTOGRAPHY PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



234 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Economists Strive to Find Environment's Bottom Line

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
Does environmental protection hurt the economy or help it?
The question is under hot dispute in the Presidential campaign. The Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee, Senator Al Gore, argues that environmental protection boosts the economy and creates jobs; Vice President Dan Quayle, whose White House Council on Competitiveness has sought to reduce environmental regulations, says the Democrats' environmental policies would cost jobs. 
 But the answer to the economy-vs.-ecology question, says an emerging group of environmental economists, is far more elusive.
An Environmental Protection Agency analysis, for example, puts the cost of controlling and cleaning up pollution under Federal regulations at more than $100 billion a year, or about 2 percent of the nation's total annual output of goods and services. But like a number of other analyses, the study does not take into account the economic benefits of cleaner air and water. An analysis of benefits is under way, but not yet complete.
Nor does the study include protection measures that do not involve pollution control, like conserving the ecosystems that underlie all economic activity, such as water, soil, forests, fisheries, wetlands, wild plant species and the complex biological web that supports life itself. Gauging the costs and benefits of such measures is hard but essential.
Environmental economists argue that the economy is merely a subsystem of the planet's ecology, on which it depends for materials, energy and general sustenance. "To me it's just as plain as the nose on your face," says Herman Daly, an economist at the World Bank and a proponent of the view that economies can flourish at steady state, without growth. Traditional economists, he and others contend, ignore this relationship, and with it the economic cost of depleting natural resources, degrading soils and otherwise insulting nature.
Until these "external" costs are reflected both in company balance sheets and calculations of national wealth, say Mr. Daly and his allies, the benefits of environmental protection will be seriously underestimated and the basic health of the economy will be overestimated.
This line of thought is starting to make some headway, as both the United Nations and the United States Department of Commerce move to include the costs of natural resource depletion as an adjunct to conventional accountings of national wealth. Also, regulatory commissions in New York and other states are starting to require electric utilities to factor in the cost of emitting heat-trapping carbon dioxide when deciding how to generate energy.
Including such external costs favors Mr. Gore's side of the argument. But economic studies in general are not so clear cut. A number of economists say the value of environmental protection measures can be assessed only on a case-by-case basis.
 
Benefits That Exceed Costs
 "I don't think you can make a broad, sweeping conclusion" about the economic value of environmental protection, said Dr. William Nordhaus of Yale University. "There are some net pluses and some net minuses."
Among the "good buys" are the air pollution controls enacted in the first Clean Air Act of 1970, according to a cost-benefit analysis by Dr. Paul R. Portney, an economist at Resources for the Future, a Washington research institute. The act placed the first limits on air pollution from smokestacks and motor vehicles. Dr. Portney found the benefits of the Clean Air Act have exceeded the costs.
His preliminary estimate suggests that the same is not true of the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act, designed to curb acid rain and air pollution in urban areas. Costs will be $29 billion to $36 billion a year by the year 2005, but benefits will probably range from $6 billion to $25 billion, he found. Since the analysis is preliminary, Dr. Portney does not rule out a different final result.
Another good buy, in Dr. Portney's view, is the phasing out of chlorofluorocarbons that destroy the earth's protective ozone layer, which he calls "a small price to pay for insurance against what could be a pretty serious problem." Bad buys, in his book, include some toxic waste sites that pose little risk but will require tens of millions of dollars apiece to clean up.
The issue of economy vs. ecology is also complicated by the fact that environmental regulation distributes both costs and benefits unevenly.
 
Disproportionate Burden
 On costs, for instance, Dr. Dale W. Jorgenson of Harvard University and Dr. Peter J. Wilcoxen of the University of Texas estimate that all Federal environmental regulations adopted before 1990 will reduce the national economic output by 2.5 percent by the year 2000. But the economy does not suffer uniformly, they found; the burden is being borne disproportionately by the chemical, coal mining, motor vehicle, refining, primary metals and paper industries.
Dr. Jorgenson and Dr. Wilcoxen calculate, for instance, that the long-run output of the automobile industry has been cut by about 15 percent as a consequence of controls on motor vehicle pollution.
"The flip side of that is that some industries are going to benefit," Dr. Jorgenson said. An example is companies that produce pollution-control equipment and services, a market estimated at more than $100 billion a year.
Mr. Quayle says thousands of auto workers could be thrown out of work if automobile fuel-efficiency standards are raised, as Gov. Bill Clinton favors, to 40 miles per gallon, from 27.5 miles, to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide. Dr. Jorgenson agrees that achieving the standard would impose substantial costs and thereby cause industry employment to shrink. But this does not take into account whatever environmental and economic benefits might result.
Another difficulty in drawing up an economy-vs.-ecology bottom line is that there may be different answers for the short term and the long term, said Dr. H. Ronald Pulliam, an ecologist at the University of Georgia. "In the short term, there are certainly job losses" in some cases of environmental protection. "But in the long run, decades, there is probably very little conflict between maximizing economic goals and ecological goals."
For instance, he said, some jobs would be lost if logging was prohibited in the old-growth forest habitat of the spotted owl in the Pacific Northwest. But if the old-growth forest is clear-cut "those jobs are going to be lost anyway in a decade or two," he said, while limiting logging so that biological diversity is preserved over the long haul "is going to provide for the needs of both the local economy and biodiversity."
 
Looking for Short-Term Success
 In a study of the costs of global warming, Dr. William R. Cline of the Institute for International Economics finds that costs would roughly match benefits for the first 20 to 30 years but would then far outstrip them after the easy ways of abating carbon dioxide emissions had all been exploited. But in time, Dr. Cline found, the benefits would begin to outweigh the costs -- in the second half of the next century if the predicted warming were severe, a century later if it fell in the middle range of the predicted warming.
Politicians, of course, do not generally look too far beyond the next election, a predilection that may be shared by their constituents. In a recent study by Resources for the Future and the University of Maryland, researchers asked people in 1,000 households which of two pollution-control programs they preferred, one that saved fewer lives now or one that saved more lives in the future. The researchers found that the respondents considered six lives saved 25 years in the future and 44 lives saved 100 years in the future equivalent to one life saved today.
Economists find that it is especially hard to assign dollar values to some benefits of environmental protection -- for instance, saving a threatened species or ecosystem. They are trying but "I don't think anyone is particularly comfortable with how far they've gotten," Dr. Portney said.
Environmental benefits have often been portrayed as harder to measure than costs. But Dr. Portney says: "Economists have been much too glib about how easy it is to nail down the cost; there are some economists who make it seem like there's nothing out there that we can't slap a dollar value on. We're making progress on some things, but there is a whole range of things that we're never going to be able to express comfortably in dollar terms."
Dr. A. Myrick Freeman 3d of Bowdoin College, an expert on measuring environmental benefits, acknowledges the difficulties. But, he said: "We have methods that are able to measure within an order of magnitude, or within a factor of two, the benefits of many environmental improvements, and plus or minus 25 percent in some cases. The errors, the bounds, around cost estimates are arguably just as large."
Dr. Freeman notes a philosophical objection raised by some critics to the use of cost-benefit analysis: it values the environment only in terms of its usefulness to people without giving "independent weight to nonhuman species or ecological systems" in their own right.
Nevertheless, he said, there is some information that says something about policy, imperfect as it is. "And it's better than making policy in the dark, without any reference at all to costs and benefits," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (58%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (58%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (58%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (58%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FISHERIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); TRENDS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



235 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Iraq: Hope for Rebels

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
They do not like to talk about it too much, or show their hopes too plain. They have been disappointed so often. They have seen so many of their countrymen die when the hopes turned to ashes in the mouth and bitterness in the heart.
But for the first time since the United States allowed Saddam Hussein to survive after the gulf war, Iraqi civilian rebels who use this city as one of their gathering places are beginning to believe that they can see his end in sight. Not immediate, not inevitable, but strategically and logically in sight and achievable within a year, or less. 
 The reason for this new hope is that they think the chances of a large part of the Iraqi Army moving against him have become better now.
The difference, the catalyst, could be the decision by President Bush to declare parts of southern Iraq a "no-fly" zone for Iraqi planes to protect anti-Saddam Iraqi Shiites from Iraqi bombers.
In the U.S. those journalists and politicians who never liked any military move against Saddam Hussein naturally enough shuddered at the no-fly order.
But it strikes me as of more moment that Iraqi civilian rebels who risk their lives and freedom fighting Saddam Hussein see the decision as potentially a political and military turning point.
The U.S. is now playing catch-up ball with Iraq, demanding a few of the prices that should have been imposed when Saddam lost the war. But with no-fly orders in the north, to help protect the Kurds, and in the south for the Shiites, with teams of inspectors moving about the country, trade internationally controlled, Iraq is no longer a sovereign state.
The Iraqi civilian rebels hope that particular reality will now take hold in the Army -- and the knowledge that under Saddam the wreckage that was Iraq cannot be repaired.
Iraqi rebels do not expect effective coups to center in Baghdad. Saddam Hussein has shown that in Baghdad his massive intelligence corps and his military bodyguard divisions strong can strangle a coup before it gets started.
But relative safety from Saddam increases with distance from Baghdad. Basra in the south and Mosul in the north, already stirring with anti-Saddam hatred, are more likely to see military rebellion against him.
Separately, representatives of the two main rebel populations in Iraq (the non-Arab Kurdish Muslims and Iraqi Arab Shiites) ask the same things from the West: to follow through politically on "no-fly." They ask for some of the blocked Iraqi funds to buy weapons, medicines and communication equipment. They ask for steady political and economic pressures, including step-by-step withdrawal of recognition from Baghdad.
The purpose would be not only to damage Saddam Hussein at once but to show the army officers that sooner or later he will have to go and that sooner will mean less bloodshed -- including their own. Also, the officers will have to be convinced that if they mutiny the U.S. will not show them what it showed Iraqi civilian rebels who rose -- its back.
Some of Washington's Middle Eastern allies fear that the no-fly orders could lead to a breakup of Iraq. It is not Iraq's future they worry about but their own -- the idea that contagious breakaway thoughts could spread to their own minorities.
The Turks, the staunchest of America's Muslim allies, have a large Kurdish population. Turkey fears correctly that Turkish Kurdish Maoist terrorists might demand a separate state. But Ankara plays into their hands by harsh military action not just against the small terrorist movement but against whole Kurdish towns in Turkey.
Assuaging Turkey's legitimate fears is a problem Iraqi Kurds who say they want close relations with Turkey will have to deal with -- they and the U.S.
But there is a bigger one, for all Iraqi rebels. It lies in their very hope of an Army rebellion. Won't that lead to a military dictatorship replacing Saddam's?
Yes, they say, it could happen. Once, when American forces were in Iraq, the U.S. might have been able to prevent a military dictatorship as it did in Germany and Italy after World War II. Now it is a risk.
If it happens, they say, we shall see what we can do about that. But unless Saddam goes, there is nothing for us, no future, no life. Do you have a better plan -- risk-free?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: IRAQI ARMY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRAQI ARMY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SHIITE MUSLIMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); RELIGION (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DESERT STORM (76%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



236 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Focus on That 12-Year Waiting List for Public Housing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "A Half-Hearted Homeless Policy" (editorial, Aug. 24), you criticize the policies of Mayor David N. Dinkins's administration toward New York City's homeless population. You are correct, but your reasoning is wrong -- and ultimately dangerous. 
 As you note, the city had until recently a policy of setting aside as many as 2,000 public housing units for homeless families. Under pressure from the overburdened Housing Authority, the Dinkins administration amended that policy to limit the number of homeless families who may be admitted to public housing. You criticize this change as a stop-gap measure, noting that the "problem of where to house the majority of homeless families remains."
To your credit, you describe the relevant factual background in some detail. You call public housing one of the city's "true success stories." You note that these housing developments provide stability for nearly 600,000 "hard-working poor, middle-class and elderly New Yorkers." And most significant, you note that there is now a 12-year waiting list for such units.
Such an extraordinary fact should be cause for alarm. At the least, it should merit discussion of the obvious question: where do hard-working people go during the 12 years it takes to gain entry into the city's success story? Perhaps some poor, middle-class and elderly people, unable to hang on for the 12 years, find themselves slipping into homelessness. Perhaps the discrepancy between housing need and housing resources suggested by the 12-year wait is related to the escalating homeless crisis.
You instead focus on the 8,000 homeless families who have "elbowed aside" those hard-working others. And you are "upset" by "evidence" that some people, "seizing the new opportunity, have deliberately made themselves homeless to get to the head of the line." In a city where getting into public housing involves a 12-year wait, it seems even more upsetting that you consider this evidence of opportunism, instead of what it obviously is: desperation.
The alarming facts you lay out make clear that the real problem is not that a few thousand homeless families are "jumping ahead" in a 12-year waiting list. The real problem is the extraordinary lack of affordable housing, as well as social services, now battering an increasingly diverse population. The real problem is that there is a 12-year waiting list to begin with.
Instead of fostering divisiveness, you should address the underlying housing -- and economic -- crisis that affects us all.
 
MARIA FOSCARINIS
Director, National Law Center
on Homelessness & Poverty
Washington, Aug. 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS; PUBLIC HOUSING HOMELESSNESS (94%); PUBLIC HOUSING (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGING (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); 

PERSON: DAVID N DINKINS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



237 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Finally, a Facade to Fit Stuyvesant;
A High School of High Achievers Gets a High-Priced Home

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN with EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
On the threshold of a new academic year, the rows of battered old desks lie empty at Stuyvesant High School on the East Side, and the great abstruse formulas that inspired genius have gone to dust on the blackboards. In ghostly classrooms, cracked windows are nailed shut against a prowling wind, and the dim hallway globes that burned for 87 years have winked out.
Tomorrow, as the 1992-93 school year begins, a reincarnated Stuyvesant High opens across Manhattan at Battery Park City for 2,700 students and 103 faculty members: a new, lavishly appointed, 10-story futureschool with state-of-the-art computers and 12 science labs, Art Deco lights, five gyms, an Olympic-sized pool, banks of escalators, glassed-in studios, an auditorium worthy of Broadway and stunning Hudson River views from the classrooms. 
 In an era of tight finances, New York City -- which has budgeted $7 billion this year for the education of one million students in 991 schools -- paid $150 million for Stuyvesant, its first new high school in a decade, the costliest ever built in the city and perhaps in the country. Its polished granite entryway, its stylish interiors of teal, taupe and pink, are a world away from the gray old five-story, Victorian limestone hulk built in 1905 for $1.5 million.
The expenditure of millions on an opulent new school for a relatively few students has renewed a cry of elitism against this highly selective, world-class high school, which flourished for generations by admitting only the brightest young scholars. Unlike past complaints, however, parents in other districts and some reform groups now say the issue is money and contend that it is needed elsewhere in a troubled system.
But Stuyvesant's defenders say there is an even greater need to preserve a place in education that represents the best, that sets standards for success year after year in a city that often seems bogged down in bureaucracy and diluted by compromise.
"A city's character is reflected in its high schools," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University. "In Texas, the investment goes to the football team. In Los Angeles, it's the parking lots. In New York, we look at Stuyvesant and we see the Westinghouse winners."
 
Best and Brightest
 The old school at 15th Street and First Avenue, which was closed last June, was never much to look at. It held out into old age with minimal maintenance and benign neglect until its peeling paint, creaking floorboards and antiquated laboratories became an embarrassment.
But for generations, it meant something special to New York. In a school system that continually struggled with dropouts, truancy, violence and academic failure, Stuyvesant nurtured the best and the brightest, many of them children of poor immigrants and working-class families, vibrant young strangers from all over town who were eager to learn, desperate to succeed.
And it worked phenomenally. Screening applicants with rigorous entrance exams, using teachers with no special qualifications other than a talent for inspiring students, imposing heavy study requirements in a collegial but highly competitive atmosphere that stressed self-discipline and hard work, Stuyvesant produced Nobel laureates and movie stars, philosophers, writers and giants of the arts and sciences.
Stuyvesant scholars annually win prestigious Westinghouse science prizes -- 80 since the competition began in 1942 -- for papers on subjects like enzyme structures. Many are multi-talented in science, music and literature. Virtually every graduate goes to college, many to the nation's most selective universities, and many have become famous, from Tim Robbins, the actor, to Lewis Mumford, the social critic.
What was it that made Stuyvesant great? Its success story, according to interviews in recent days with teachers, students, administrators, graduates and city school officials, has far more to do with the caliber of Stuyvesant's students than its teaching methods, policies or financing.
 
Not Money, But Expectations
 Through the decades, officials said, Stuyvesant got its share of money, but no more than other schools of comparable size; its teachers were drawn from the same pool as the rest of the city, and it had no special policies other than lofty expectations and heavy workloads for students, who often take advanced courses in chemistry, physics and math and labor at homework six hours a night.
At Stuyvesant, ninth-graders do not simply take five periods of biology a week; they take research biology for 10 periods, half of them in labs working on classical and original experiments. Similar research is offered in physics and chemistry. The best students are paired with professional scientists at places like Rockefeller University, and they spend hours after school and on weekends working on projects.
Most Stuyvesant students are admitted solely on the results of a difficult examination, although about 12 percent who score close to the cutoff and are certified as disadvantaged are admitted each year. This year, some 10,000 applicants took the test for 800 openings in the freshman and sophomore classes.
Abraham Baumel, the principal, said Stuyvesant was even more selective than the two other academically competitive public high schools in the city, which also accept students mainly on the test scores, Bronx High School of Science and Brooklyn Technical High School.
Stuyvesant has been attacked periodically through the years as a bastion of elitism and discrimination. Its student body was all male until 1969 and was overwhelmingly Jewish for many years. Last year, it was about 51 percent Asian, 40 percent white and 9 percent black and Hispanic.
"They can do more than they are doing," said Janet Price, deputy executive director of the Fund for New York City Public Education, a non-profit reform group. She said Stuyvesant and city school officials should work with pupils from poor neighborhoods to insure that more academically talented black and Hispanic candidates are well prepared to pass the entrance exams.
Ms. Price and other critics also disputed the wisdom of spending millions on a new school for Stuyvesant, saying the money was needed elsewhere in a city with many deteriorating schools and overcrowded classrooms. "It's not the kind of school we need most in the city right now," Ms. Price said.
Obah David Ward, a former president of the Parent-Teachers Association at Boys and Girls High in Brooklyn, said the improvement of schools in poorer areas was a more pressing need. "The poor schools get poorer, the rich schools get richer," he said. "The quality of a nation, the quality of a city, is really dependent on what it does for the masses of its people."
But others praised Stuyvesant as a beacon of excellence in public education, an example of what Thomas Jefferson hailed as the aristocracy of talent. Some noted also that Stuyvesant had survived many legislative and Board of Education votes to dilute or dismantle its admission standards, as well as investigations by local and Federal agencies and pressure by civil-rights groups.
Dr. Joshua Lederberg, the retired president of Rockefeller University, who graduated from Stuyvesant in 1941 and won the Nobel Prize for physiology and medicine in 1958 for his research in microbial genetics, argued against any change of standards at Stuyvesant.
Stuyvesant, Dr. Lederberg said, "was the most important socializing experience in shaping my life, a place you could really sharpen your wits on." He added, "It represented part of the system of social mobility that New York City used to be famous for, that has sadly deteriorated. It's sort of the last bastion of that kind of spirit."
As for spending on the new school, he said: "I don't think there is any other school in the country that can boast its level of return on investment. Above all, it lifts everybody up. It's something to be proud of. There are not many other things that New York can point to with pride in the social arena."
 
'I Was Challenged'
 Tony Zirilli, a news-library supervisor for The New York Times who graduated from Stuyvesant in 1963, recalled a traditional, academically rigorous experience that included heavy homework and little socializing with classmates, who were all boys and lived throughout the city. "It was not a neighborhood school," he noted. "I traveled an hour and a half on the bus and subway from Queens."
In a collegelike atmosphere, he said, students were highly motivated and self-disciplined. The teachers used class time for discussion and debate that ranged widely, even outside the course material, into social studies, history, current events and other topics. "They expected you to do a lot more on your own -- to get the course work yourself," he recalled.
"It was a big shock," he said. "I never had to work to be the top of my class in junior high. All of a sudden, I was working harder than ever and I was just an average student. It was the first time I was challenged to think. There were no spitballs or paper airplanes. Cutting classes was virtually unheard of."
If there is such a thing as a typical Stuyvesant student today it could be Jia Lu Yin, a senior who is a violinist, debater, journalist, member of the Governor's Youth Council, vice president of Stuyvesant's National Honor Society chapter and a top student who plans to apply to Harvard, the University of Chicago and the State University of New York at Binghamton.
She is not yet an American citizen. Her family moved to New York from China 10 years ago so she could get a good education. She spoke no English then; her parents still don't. Her father is a waiter in a Chinese restaurant; her mother is unemployed.
 
'Intellectual Atmosphere'
 Ms. Yin praised Stuyvesant as "a great intellectual atmosphere," but she also said it was a place of intense pressure, where hard-pressed students sometimes resorted to plagiarizing reports and exchanging answers on tests.
"There's a lot of cheating going on," Ms. Yin said. "There is so much pressure. There is so much expectation to do well or else you won't go to the Ivy League school of your dreams." She added: "Stuyvesant is like a showcase to say to the public that the Board of Education hasn't failed."
Ms. Yin also was critical of the school for failing to attract more black and Hispanic students, and she said she thought some of the millions spent on the new school should have gone elsewhere. "I don't feel it's fair that we spent all that money on our school," she said, noting that friends at other schools had been shortchanged. "These kids need encouragement the most," she said. "They look around and say, 'Society has already given up on me.' "
But Stuyvesant High -- named for Peter Stuyvesant, the Dutch last governor of New Amsterdam -- opens a new era tomorrow, and many students, faculty members and administrators are feeling good about it. "They are oooing and aaaing," a harried Mr. Baumel, the principal, said amid stacks of paper and cartons of unpacked books. "This is the most extraordinary school I've ever seen."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 1992, Wednesday / September 12, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the new Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan referred incorrectly to the condition and status of the old school building. The former Stuyvesant remains open, housing the High School for Environmental Studies, the Mabel D. Bacon High School, citywide special education classes and adult evening classes.
An article on Tuesday about the new Stuyvesant High School building in Manhattan misstated the size of its swimming pool. It is 75 feet long, the standard for Public School Athletic League competition.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stuyvesant High School spent the last 87 years at 345 East 15th Street, where the classrooms are now empty (Angel Franco/The New York Times); Lewis Mumford, Social critic (Thomas Victor); Joshua Lederberg, Nobel Prize winner (The New York Times); Tim Robbins, Actor (Associated Press); Jia Lu Yin, High-school senior (pg. B1); The new 10-story Stuyvesant High School, which opens tomorrow for 2,700 students and 103 faculty members at Battery Park City. (pg. B6) (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC) STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BATTERY PARK CITY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY); FINANCES; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); FAMILY (64%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1992



238 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 36 words

 BODY:
"Two weeks ago there were thousands of unemployed construction workers around here. Right now, anybody who is not working is just plain lazy." -- THOMAS MENDEZ, a contractor in Boca Raton, Fla. [A1:6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: QUOTATION OF THE DAY UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); 

PERSON: THOMAS MENDEZ (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



239 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Chrysler to Move Its Headquarters

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 8

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation, which had previously said it would not move its corporate base from Highland Park, Mich., announced today that it would transfer its headquarters operations to its technology center in Auburn Hills, about 50 miles to the north.
Chrysler said the move was necessary because it had eliminated 12,000 white-collar jobs since 1987 and had reorganized its engineers into teams from functional departments. 
 The platform-team concept, organized around individual vehicles, requires that various disciplines, including product design, engineering, manufacturing and procurement and supply, work together under one roof. "Under this organization, it is essential for the entire team to be together in the same location," said Lee A. Iacocca, the company's chairman. "We can't have our executives traveling 50 miles back and forth for meetings two and three times a day."
 
 
Depressed City
 Highland Park, an economically depressed city of 20,000 people, is mostly surrounded by Detroit. It has been home to Chrysler since the company was founded in 1925.
Deputy Mayor Scotty Wainwright said in response to the Chrysler announcement: "Before the 1987 downsizing, Chrysler was Highland Park's largest employer, and they're right up near the top today. We haven't had a chance to sit down and review the facts."
When the move to Auburn Hills is complete in about three years, Chrysler said it expected to keep only 500 technical and administrative employees in Highland Park of the 5,000 employed there now. Chrysler pledged to work with Highland Park officials in an effort to reduce the economic impact of the move and to determine the best future use for its facilities.
While criticizing Japanese automobile manufacturers for opening United States factories in rural locations, Chrysler opened its new Jefferson Avenue plant on the east side of Detroit last year. The plant produces the Jeep Grand Cherokee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Chrysler Corporation's technology center in Auburn Hills, Mich., during final construction in 1990. (Chrysler Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HIGHLAND PARK (MICH); AUBURN HILLS (MICH) UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



240 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The White House and Congress squared off on the North American Free Trade Agreement. President Bush released the text of the pact with Mexico and Canada and sent his top trade official to the Senate to begin lobbying for it. [Page A1.]
 
Companies
Ford's executive vice president for North America has emerged as the favorite to succeed Harold A. Poling when he retires as chairman next year. [D1.] Chrysler said it would move its corporate base from Highland Park, Mich., to Auburn Hills, about 50 miles north. [D3.] 
 General Motors is expected to announce details of its long-awaited no-fee credit card, which will provide rebates toward the purchase of new G.M. cars. [D1.]
Olympia & York reached an agreement for bondholders of 55 Water Street in Manhattan to take over the building. [D3.]
Compaq said CompUSA, Office Depot and Circuit City had agreed to sell its personal computers and other products. [D3.]
Sun said it might sell its coal-mining and coke-making operations as one of the "strategic alternatives" it is exploring. [D3.]
The cellular telephone industry reported record growth in subscribers in the first half of the year. [D3.]
Trans World Airlines announced cutbacks in service under its bankruptcy reorganization plan. [D4.]
Saks Fifth Avenue's management shake-up continued with the naming of a Dayton Hudson executive as vice chairman. [D4.]
ABC will experiment with a late-night home shopping show next month, a first for network television. [D5.]
The Federal judge at the center of liability cases against tobacco companies has been removed from one case. [A1.]
 
The Economy
President Bush asked Congress for $7.6 billion to help the victims of Hurricane Andrew, acknowledging that the measure would raise the Federal deficit. [A1.] The storm will be a bonanza for those who will be paid to repair the damage. [A1.]
Consumers reduced their outstanding debt in July for the sixth consecutive month. It was the 12th decline in 15 months. [D10.]
A Federal judge set aside the prison sentences and fines of two defendants linked to Michael R. Milken's junk bond empire. [D16.]
 
Business Technology
Tests of an experimental system that uses radio waves to identify passing cars at toll plazas and automatically deduct fees from prepaid accounts began this week. [D1.]
The threat of computer viruses has been significantly exaggerated, according to a new I.B.M. study. [D4.]
 
Markets
Another surge in the value of the German mark was set off by a decision by Finland to devalue its currency. The move sent the dollar lower and rattled equity markets in Europe. [D1.]
The bond market rally continued, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropping to its lowest level since 1986. [D1.]
Stocks declined, with investors expressing growing pessimism about the economy. The Dow fell 21.34, to 3,260.59. [D6.]
Natural gas prices fell after reports that hurricane damage to equipment would be repaired faster than had been expected. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Earle Palmer Brown is looking to carve out a larger space in the overcrowded New York market by reorganizing its Manhattan office. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
Ben & Jerry's is being forced by regulators to reformulate some products at the risk of making them less tasty. How that will affect sales remains to be seen. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); TGT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (78%); UNITED STATES (76%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); COMPUSA INC (56%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%); TARGET CORP (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (78%); UNITED STATES (76%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); JUDGES (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); SALES REBATES (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (67%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); SENTENCING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); CRIMINAL FINES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); HURRICANES (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); GERMAN MARK (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); COAL MINING (52%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



241 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Canada Pushes for Pact

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Sept. 8

 BODY:
The Canadian Government has begun a campaign to promote a free-trade pact with Mexico and the United States, and it published a poll that showed mounting public support for the deal. A Government survey shows that approval of the agreement, which would create the world's largest free-trade zone, grew to 46 percent in August from 29 percent in March. Opposition to the pact centers on concerns about increased unemployment. The Canadian Government will spend $3.1 million Canadian ($2.6 million) on a campaign to promote the benefits of trade and the North American deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



242 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Credit Markets;
U.S. Bond Yields Fall to Lowest in Years

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The bond market rallied sharply again yesterday, continuing the surge set off Friday by the weak employment report and sending some yields to lows not seen in years.
In late trading, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 7.21 percent, its lowest since September of 1986. The bond's price rose 24/32 , to 10012/32 . In the last two trading days, the bond's yield has fallen 14 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. 
 Yields of notes and bills also fell sharply. The two-year note fell to 3.78 percent, its lowest ever and down from 3.86 percent on Friday. And the yield on the 10-year note dropped 10 basis points, to 6.28 percent.
In the weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, the discount rate on the three-month bill fell to 2.91 percent, the lowest since May 1963, and the discount rate on the six-month bill dropped to 2.95 percent, the lowest since March 1963.
Corporate and municipal issuers were also active yesterday, taking advantage of lower yields to borrow at lower cost, in some cases to refinance issues with higher rates sold years ago.
Many traders and analysts think the 30-year bond's yield will move down to 7 percent, which would be the lowest since the early 1970's.
"There is good potential for it to do better; to make at least one last move lower," said Mary Rooney, a financial economist at S. G. Warburg & Company in New York.
She said the next economic reports, like retail sales and industrial production, would continue to show that the economy was flat, providing an environment for still-lower rates. The unemployment report on Friday showed a surprising decline of 167,000 private-sector jobs in August.
But while all yields continue to fall, the spread between yields of shorter maturities, like 2-year notes, and the yield of the 30-year bond continues at or near record proportions. That is not good news for the economy, since these long rates have a big impact on the housing industry.
Yesterday, the spread between the yield on the 2-year note and the 30-year bond was 343 basis points, just off its record widest of 344 basis points on July 17.
The 30-year bond is the riskiest of fixed-income investments, and analysts say that its relatively high yield compared with that of shorter maturities shows that some investors are worried about the outcome of the Presidential election and the costs of any economic stimulus program that might be proposed. Any such program would increase the Federal budget deficit, another concern of bond investors, because it could lead to more Federal borrowing. Also, analysts said, investors may not yet be convinced that inflation will remain low.
"The weaker things get, the more stimulative economic package we could get," Ms. Rooney said.
Like the rally in July, the price rise in the intermediate maturities, like the 5- and 10-year notes, came as retail investors chose to buy securities with longer maturities to get higher interest rates. In addition, some traders said there was more selling of longer-term mortgage-backed securities and buying of 5- and 10-year notes to fill the gap in institutional portfolios.
The mortgage-backed securities are being sold because the drop in interest rates raises the threat that the underlying mortgages will be refinanced and paid off early, which can mean a loss for investors.
 
Corporate Issues
 More than $1.5 billion in corporate bonds were issued yesterday, led by a $500 million issue of 10-year notes by the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. In addition, the BankAmerica Corporation sold $250 million of 10-year notes and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. sold $250 million of 30-year debentures.
"There is a very large shadow calendar out there," said one corporate bond trader, referring to the corporate issues waiting in the wings. "There is a lot of cash out there and a very bullish sentiment."
The activity was less hectic in the municipal bond market but traders said that was just the post-Labor Day holiday calm ahead of an active week. According to Stephen Leslie, a senior vice president at M. R. Beal & Company, just the top 10 issues scheduled to be sold this week total more than $3 billion.
Among the issues waiting to be priced are a $494 million issue by the New York State Medical Care Facility Authority; a $350 million issue by the New York Local Government Assistance Corporation and a $390 million issue by the city and county of Denver, for the airport.
The municipal market has rallied about one to two full points in the last week, since it dropped sharply last month as the rush of issues overwhelmed the market.
Because of the current rally in the Treasury market, some traders think investors will be able to absorb the new issues. But they do not expect anything like the rally in July. And if the pricing gets too aggressive and the yields too low, the market could retreat a little.
"We have a heavy supply and do not have the same investment demand as in July," said Austin Tobin, the president of the Delphis Hanover Corporation.
Following are the results from the Treasury auction of three- and six- month bills yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.264	98.509	Discounted Rate	2.91%	2.95%	Coupon Yield	2.97%	3.04%	High Price	99.267	98.514	Discounted Rate	2.90%	2.94%	Coupon Yield	2.96%	3.03%	Low Price	99.262	98.509	Discounted Rate	2.92%	2.95%	Coupon Yield	2.98%	3.04%	Accepted at low price	2%	99%	Total applied for	$40,061,285	$39,987,475	Accepted	$11,049,470	$11,001,600	N.Y. applied for	$35,827,110	$36,773,975	N.Y. accepted	$9,793,015	$9.939,600	Noncompetitive	$1,388,920	$993,360	

Both these issues are dated Sept. 10, 1992. The three-month bills mature Dec. 10, 1992, and the six-month bills mature on March 11, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: S G WARBURG & CO LTD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); ELECTIONS (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MARY ROONEY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



243 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Cairo Journal;
Arab Favorite for Nice Times (and Naughty Ones)

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO

 BODY:
The temperature is nearly 100 degrees, the bridges over the Nile are a hopeless tangle of bleating horns and snorting motors, and the yellowish air is thick with dust and diesel fumes and something that smells faintly of donkeys.
But none of this seems to faze Mohammed al-Matrud, a happy tourist from Saudi Arabia. Others may prefer April in Paris or autumn in New York, but for Mr. Matrud, nothing can top summer in Cairo. 
 "You can go to a mosque and pray if you want, or you can go look at the Nile, or you can go on a picnic, or you can visit a village," Mr. Matrud said as he sat in the air-conditioned lobby of the Cairo Marriott, a businessman at leisure in an orange polo shirt and black and orange shorts. Or, he added with a sly grin, "you can go and watch the belly dancers."
Mr. Matrud, whose wife and two children are on vacation with him, is among a large and growing army of tourists from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Libya and the rest of the Middle East who in recent years have turned Cairo and Egypt into the Arab world's favorite summer vacation destination.
 
A Tonic for the Economy
 In August and early September, they overflow Egypt's expensive resort hotels and apartment blocks, whole families of veiled women and of men in traditional white robes and headdresses, spending the big money that is a tonic for Egypt's tattered economy.
The Ministry of Tourism has estimated that Arabs will account for 40 percent of the three million tourists who are expected to visit Egypt this year. Most come in August and September, when they are expected to spend in just two months nearly 25 percent of the $3 billion in tourist revenues forecast for Egypt for all of 1992.
While Europeans and Americans prefer to visit Egypt in the winter, seeking a warm place in the sun, travelers from the austere desert kingdoms of the Arabian Peninsula have increasingly made Cairo a summer destination. Their numbers have grown steadily since the 1970's, when civil war in Lebanon forced them to abandon Beirut.
Compared with the scorching summers in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, the blistering summer heat of Cairo is no drawback, and since the decline of Beirut the Egyptian capital is the most cosmopolitan and most seductive metropolis in the Middle East, a clamorous, dirty, sprawling, libertine place that stays open all night, and where anything seems possible at the right price.
Part of Cairo's appeal is that it has traditionally offered Arab tourists from the puritanical Muslim societies of the Persian Gulf -- where drinking and gambling are strictly forbidden -- a chance to let their hair down and indulge in the Arab equivalent of what the British call a "dirty weekend."
 
Discos and Casinos Profit
 They crowd the discotheques and casinos at the Hilton, the Sheraton and the Marriott in Cairo, and fill the front tables in the bawdy nightclubs along the Pyramids Road, where some of the most enthusiastic among them have been known to string $100 bills into necklaces as favors for their favorite belly dancers.
Arab tourists also say shopping in Cairo offers good value compared with the prices they must pay for imported goods in the Persian Gulf.
On a recent Sunday, groups of veiled women glided among the aisles of M. M., a fashionable clothing shop here, examining the sleek displays of Italian shoes, French dresses and Spanish leather goods. Others climbed the stairs to the third floor, where, out of sight of male customers, an assortment of imported lingerie is discreetly displayed.
Yasin Mahmoud Nur, the manager, estimated that shoppers from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia accounted for 50 percent of the shop's annual revenues.
But the flood of high-spending tourists from the Arabian Peninsula has also provoked the ire of some Egyptians, in a country where the average worker survives on wages of barely $40 a month, and beggars squat on the sidewalk less than a block from luxury hotels.
 
Arrogant, Egyptians Say
 A ritual complaint among many Egyptians is that the Saudis and the Kuwaitis are arrogant and that they treat them with disdain bordering on contempt.
"They look down their noses at us, and tell us that we are stealing from them because of the prices we ask for shoes or clothes or apartments," said a clerk in a jewelry shop, asking that his name not be used. "But then they go out to the Pyramids Road and throw their money at belly dancers without a second thought."
Mahmoud Hamid, a taxi driver waiting for a fare outside the Marriott, was even more emphatic. "They don't come here to look at our monuments and they know nothing at all about Eygpt's history and its culture," he said. "I prefer the Europeans to the Arabs, who only want to gamble in the nightclubs and chase Egyptian women."
For their part, some Arab tourists say Egyptians try to take advantage of them. One man complained he had been quoted a price of about $33,000 for an apartment, but when he went back three days later the seller, realizing he was from Kuwait, immediately raised the price to about $73,000.
"Egypt is a wonderful place, one thousand times less expensive than anywhere else," said a man who identified himself as Sheik Khalifa, who was vacationing in Cairo from Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates. "The only problem is that everyone thinks the gulf man is the rich man."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A growing army of tourists from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Libya and the rest of the Middle East have turned Cairo into the Arab world's favorite summer vacation spot. Kuwaiti women shopped for shoes at a Cairo mall. (Norbert Schiller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (95%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT; CAIRO (EGYPT); MIDDLE EAST EGYPT (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); CAIRO, EGYPT (95%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TRENDS (87%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (72%); RESORTS (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); FAMILY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CIVIL WAR (67%); MEN (64%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (63%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); DANCERS (53%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



244 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 68 words

HEADLINE: Airlines' Ratings Cut

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 8

 BODY:
The Duff & Phelps Credit Ranking Company downgraded the debt ratings of the nation's three largest airlines today. Duff & Phelps said that the airlines have been having continuing financial difficulties and that their situation has been made worse by the recent fare wars. The debt ratings of American Airlines and its parent, the AMR Corporation; United Air Lines and Delta Air Lines all were lowered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES INC FITCH RATINGS LTD (84%); AMR CORP (83%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT AIRLINES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



245 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush Tells Jews That Rival Would Have Harmed Israel

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Opening a fall campaign to woo Jewish voters, President Bush today told a Jewish gathering that Israel's survival would now be threatened had the United States been led by Gov. Bill Clinton, who "waffled" and "wavered" on whether to confront Iraq.
Mr. Bush also said that assertions that he or others in his Administration harbored anti-Semitic attitudes, because they had at times disagreed with Israeli policies, were wrong and hurtful to him personally. For much of the past four years, the President was at odds with pro-Israeli Jewish groups over his insistence that the Israeli Government curtail settlement building in the West Bank as a condition for housing loan guarantees. 
 "Let me say that it is important that we learn how to disagree," Mr. Bush said to the B'nai B'rith International Convention. "To accuse those who may come to different conclusions on one or another public issue of harboring anti-Semitism is to cheapen the term. That is dangerous. That is deeply wrong. And when those words, without justice, have been aimed at me, I can tell you, they cut to the heart."
The President added that he had not yet made a decision on whether to sell 72 F-15 fighter jets to Saudi Arabia, but he and other Administration officials pointed out that Governor Clinton had already spoken in favor of the sale. The sale could save thousands of jobs in a crucial state, Missouri, where the plane's manufacturer, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, is based.
Mr. Bush said he was weighing all of the national security and economic factors before making a decision on the sale, while Mr. Clinton simply endorsed the deal in answer to a question at a public meeting. But the President left the strong impression that he, too, would back the sale.
 
Grumbling About Clinton
 Mr. Bush's remarks to B'nai B'rith were described by aides as his opening effort to win Jewish voters, who will be crucial in states like California, Florida and Illinois, where the voting is expected to be close. Mr. Bush got roughly 25 percent of the Jewish vote in 1988, and Bush campaign officials contend that despite the tensions between the Administration and Israel in recent years Mr. Bush can do at least as well this time around.
Mr. Clinton is scheduled to address the same group tomorrow, but not in person. He will appear through a television hookup, a fact that had many in the audience grumbling that the Democratic candidate was taking their votes for granted.
The Clinton-Gore campaign issued a statement today that termed Mr. Bush's support for Israel "another election year conversion."
"Less than 60 days before the election," it said, "George Bush is trying to convince the American Jewish Community he's been on their side for the last four years. It won't sell. Since his election, George Bush has been bullying Israel and offending the American Jewish community."
Nevertheless, Abraham D. Foxman, executive director of the Anti-Defamation League, said Mr. Clinton had erred in not addressing the B'nai B'rith gathering in person. The President, Mr. Foxman added, had at least come and touched most of the right bases in his speech, although Mr. Bush still had problems with many Jews because of the repeated Christian references at the Republican National convention, which did not seem very receptive to Jewish concerns.
This gentle criticism of Mr. Clinton comes in the aftermath of other complaints by the leaders of various Jewish organizations that the Democratic candidate had spoken in favor of the F-15 sale, provided it was conditioned on terms that will not diminish Israel's qualitative edge over the Arabs, without any advance warning to pro-Israel groups.
Mr. Clinton endorsed the sale on Aug. 25 in answer to a question at a meeting with voters in Dallas, saying he would support such a sale "under the right circumstances."
 
Listing Accomplishments
 As for Mr. Bush, he got a polite, but not exactly ecstatic reception today. The basic thrust of his address was that while the tone of his Administration's foreign policy may not always have been right, as far as American Jews were concerned, the substance was in fact pro-Israeli. His Administration confronted Iraq, he said, brought about direct peace talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors and helped Russian and Ethiopian Jews emigrate to Israel. He has also recently approved $10 billion in loan guarantees for Israel.
Mr. Bush made no mention of his policy before the Persian Gulf war of building up Iraq's military arsenal in hopes of moderating the positions of that country's President, Saddam Hussein.
"Ask yourself where the Middle East would be today, where Israel's security would be today, if we had followed the counsel of my critics," Mr. Bush declared. "Ask yourself where we would be if we had someone in the Oval Office who would have waffled, who would have wavered and wanted to have it both ways.
"Listen to my opponent's very own words on whether he would have followed my lead, and drawn a line in the sand. I quote: 'I guess I would have voted with the majority if it was a close vote. But I agree with the arguments the minority made.' "
Mr. Clinton now emphasizes that he was a consistent supporter of the gulf war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush addressing the B'nai B'rith convention yesterday in Washington, where he told the audience that he had not yet made a decision on whether to sell fighter jets to Saudi Arabia. Reflected in the teleprompter at left was Zalman Shoval, Israel's Ambassador to the United States. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (66%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (66%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (91%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (91%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; JEWS; ELECTION ISSUES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ANTI-SEMITISM ; PERSIAN GULF WAR; F-15 AIRPLANE JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIRLINES (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (65%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) ; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



246 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Dow Retreats 21.34 Points in Light Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The stock market declined yesterday, with investors expressing growing pessimism about the economy after last week's dismal employment report.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials fell 21.34 points, to 3,260.59. 
 Trading was light, but the losses stretched across the spectrum. Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 161.4 million shares as of 4 P.M., up from 124.4 million in the previous session. Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Big Board's composite index of all its listed common stocks was off 1.38 at 228.37. On the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was off 1.49 at 383.36. The Nasdaq composite fell 2.27, to 571.17.
The Government on Friday reported private employment fell by 167,000 jobs in August while the nation's unemployment rate dropped to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent in July.
The Dow Jones average fell 10.27 points Friday after the report, and analysts said the long Labor Day holiday weekend seemed to accentuate a gloomy outlook toward the economy.
"It's almost unfortunate we had the weekend to think about that report," said Hugh Johnson, senior vice president at the First Albany Corporation. "When you really examine the report carefully and try an find something rosy, or cheery, or positive, you still come up pretty empty-handed."
Bank stocks took the brunt of the selling yesterday as investors worried that a slow economy might stir up further trouble in loan portfolios, Mr. Johnson said.
Chase Manhattan, the Big Board's most active issue, fell 7/8, to 22; Citicorp lost 7/8, to 15 1/2; Chemical Banking dropped 1 3/4, to 31 1/2; J. P. Morgan was off 1/8 at 60 1/8, and BankAmerica was down 1 at 42 7/8.
Other so-called cyclical stocks, or companies whose fortunes are closely tied to economic cycles, came under selling pressure. Alcoa dropped 1, to 65 1/2; Caterpillar was down 1 1/2 at 47 3/4; International Paper fell 1 3/4, to 62 3/8, and Burlington Northern, was down 1 3/8 at 34 1/2.
Alan Ackerman, executive vice president at Reich & Company said many traders were depressed because the market failed to muster a traditional pre-Labor Day rally.
"There's been no spark to get the market going," Mr. Ackerman said. "This remains a very selective, very treacherous market."
G.M., among the most active New York Stock Exchange stocks, fell 1 1/8, to 34. Work resumed at G.M.'s Lordstown, Ohio stamping plant following the end of a nine-day strike on Saturday that shut several assembly plants across the country.
Heinz was down 3/8 at 41 1/2, off earlier lows in the day. It reported earnings of 55 cents a share for its first quarter ended July 29, against 95 cents a share during the comparable period in 1991. The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation was down 1 3/8 at 41 1/4 after a brokerage firm downgraded the mortgage concern's prospects.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (67%); REICH & CO INC (62%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); ALCOA INC (52%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US LABOR DAY (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); COMMON STOCK (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: HUGH JOHNSON (64%); ALAN ACKERMAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



247 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKET;
Finland's Move Jars Markets

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
A decision by Finland to devalue its currency rippled through the world's financial markets today, setting off yet another surge in the value of the German mark and pushing most European stock prices lower.
The rise in the mark sent the dollar down again in trading in London. The dollar closed here at 1.3915 marks, down from 1.4030 on Monday, and in New York trading the dollar closed at 1.3945 marks, down from 1.4015 on Friday, which was the last day of trading before the Labor Day holiday. 
 Fears that the rise in the mark and the corresponding decline of most other currencies would force Italy, Britain and other nations to raise interest rates rattled equity markets in Europe.
 
2 Declines and a Small Rise
 In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange index fell 34.5 points, to 2,337.7. Investors in Paris sent the market there down by 15.63 points, to 1,763.67 on the CAC-40 index. Stocks in Frankfurt had a small gain, closing at 1,544.35, up 3.92 on the DAX-30 index.
"The markets are very sensitive to things European, and there are a lot of implications of higher interest rates," said Robert Barrie, a European economist for Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd. in London.
The devaluation by Finland -- actually a decision to allow its markka to float in value rather than to keep it pegged to other European currencies -- came as investors were already skeptical of the stability of Europe's other weak currencies, including the British pound and the Italian lira.
Investors have also been nervous for several weeks that voters in France may reject a treaty on the next stage of European unification when it is put to a referendum on Sept. 20. A rejection could push the mark even higher, forcing other nations to choose between raising interest rates to defend their currencies or dropping their commitment to keeping their currency values linked within a specified range. A poll released today showed the vote in France too close to call.
 
Pressure on Weaker Markets
 "What's happened in Scandinavia has increased concerns about possible devaluations elsewhere," said Darren Cullen, an economist with Salomon Brothers in London. "As you've had increased challenges to exchange-rate policy in advance of Sept. 20, the weaker markets have come under growing pressure."
Analysts said Finland's move reinforced the belief among investors that the mark was the only haven, forcing the German currency's value up again. The pound, for example, fell to 2.788 marks from 2.795.
Finland had decided last year to peg the value of the markka to a basket of European currencies as a way of reducing inflation and getting the nation's economy into shape in preparation for eventual entrance into the European Community.
But Prime Minister Esko Aho, faced with a deep recession caused in part by a decline in trade with the former Soviet Union, chose today to allow the currency's value to float rather than raising interest rates further or intervening heavily in foreign currency markets to protect the markka. In currency trading today, the markka fell about 13 percent. Finland had devalued the currency once before, in November of last year, by a similar amount.
 
Trouble in Scandinavia
 Finland's decision quickly created problems for Sweden and Norway as well, as investors fled their currencies, worried that they, too, might be devalued. Norway, seeking to avoid a sharp decline in its krone, intervened by buying the currency in the markets. Sweden acted quickly to maintain the value of its krona by pushing interest rates up to an all-time high of 24 percent, from 16 percent.
But with Scandinavian nations mired in recessions, it is unclear how long Sweden and perhaps Norway will be able to avoid devaluations.
"Markets are concerned that the Swedish central bank may be unable to sustain the current parity of the krona," Mr. Cullen of Salomon Brothers said. "The substantial 8-point rate hike should be sufficient to calm market nerves for now. However, Swedish rates are unsustainable at these levels. The Swedish economy is already in the depths of its deepest recession in over 50 years."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Widespread Declines
 In Tokyo yesterday, the dollar closed at 123.28 yen, down 0.17 yen from Monday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 122.65 yen. In New York, the dollar closed at 122.85 yen, down from 123.15 on Friday.
In London, the pound rose to $2.0037, from $1.9933 late Monday. In New York, the pound was quoted at $2.0040, down from $1.9960, late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday, included: 1.2355 Swiss francs, down from 1.2525; 4.7470 French francs, down from 4.7785; 1,065.00 Italian lire, down from 1,074.00, and 1.20635 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1985. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FINLAND (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (55%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FINLAND; GERMANY; UNITED STATES GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FINLAND (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); DEVALUATION (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BRITISH POUND (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US LABOR DAY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BONDS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); REFERENDUMS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



248 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: A Season for Shooting 'Problem' Geese

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GRAND ISLAND, N.Y.

 BODY:
Like football games and falling leaves, goose hunting is a symbol of autumn in western New York. But this year gunfire was heard even before Labor Day, a result of a special 10-day hunting season aimed at thinning the goose population in three counties.
"It's not the migratory geese that are the problem," said Dale R. Dewing, field crop agent with the Cattaraugus County Cooperative Extension. "It's the ones that live here year-round." 
 As the Canada goose population of western New York has grown over the last 20 years, so have complaints from residents, especially farmers and golfers.
 
Fond of Corn
 For farmers, the problem is economic. In Cattaraugus County, Mr. Dewing estimates that geese have eaten "tens of thousands of dollars" worth of crops, mostly corn grown to feed the county's 26,000 dairy cows. "It's certainly not something that's of disastrous proportions, but it concerns the farmers involved," he said.
For golfers, the concern is where there are geese, there are droppings.
"Many times there's no clean area to lay the golf bag down in," said Benjamin W. Morey, manager of Beaver Island State Park, just north of Buffalo. "Many times the ball gets a color other than white."
 
1,000 Kills Expected
 To reduce the goose population, the State Department of Environmental Conservation opened a special 10-day hunting season beginning Sept. 1 in Erie, Cattaraugus and Chautauqua counties. The state's regular goose-hunting season runs for 70 days beginning in November.
Officials estimate there are 9,000 geese in the three counties. As the Labor Day weekend started, the department had issued about 1,500 hunting permits. Each hunter is allowed to kill six birds in the 10-day season, with a maximum of three in one day.
If each hunter bagged the limit, the goose problem -- and the geese -- would be eliminated. But realistically, officials said, only about 1,000 geese probably will be killed.
"I know hunters have been very successful in the southern tier counties, Cattaraugus and Chautauqua," said Kenneth J. Roblee, a senior wildlife biologist with the Department of Environmental Conservation. "But I know as far as Beaver Island and the Niagara River, the take has been very light."
Not everyone favors the hunting solution to the goose problem.
"If something is endangering a human being, we can see why you'd have to kill it," said Valerie P. Will, president of Animal Rights Advocates of Western New York. "But just because it's on a golf course?"
About 15 members of Mrs. Will's group presented a petition against the hunt to state officials on Aug. 27. Five days later, on the eve of the hunt, the group staged a "wake" at Beaver Island park, leaving wreaths on the turf for the geese about to fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATTARAUGUS COUNTY COOPERATIVE EXTENSION (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATTARAUGUS COUNTY COOPERATIVE EXTENSION (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEESE; HUNTING AND TRAPPING SPORT HUNTING (91%); GOLF (89%); US LABOR DAY (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); BIRDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); CORN FARMING (76%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ANIMALS (67%); STATE PARKS (66%); MAMMALS (58%); PETITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DALE R DEWING (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



249 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: President and Congress Square Off On North American Trade Accord

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
The White House and Congress squared off today on the North American Free Trade Agreement as President Bush released the text of the pact and sent his top trade official to the Senate to begin lobbying for it.
After 14 months of contentious negotiations, Canada, Mexico and the United States on Aug. 12 announced their agreement on a continental free trade zone that would eventually eliminate customs duties and most other restrictions on the sale of goods and services across their borders. And on the campaign stump Mr. Bush cites the accord as one of his top achievements. 
 But on Capitol Hill today, the pact drew immediate criticism, not only from protectionist Democrats but from free trade Democrats. They accused the President of using the pact as an election-year wedge to split the Democratic Party and portray Gov. Bill Clinton as indecisive.
Mr. Clinton endorsed the negotiation of an agreement last year but since then has refused to take a position, saying he needed to study the finished document, which was classified until now. His stance has prompted Republican charges that he has "hemmed and hawed," yielding to pressure from labor unions, who argue that American jobs will be lost to cheaper labor in Mexico.
 
No Clear Positions
 George Stephanopoulos, the communications director for the Arkansas Governor, said today that Mr. Clinton would not only wait to review the agreement with his aides but would probably also wait for the conclusion of a series of four hearings being held by the Senate Finance Committee.
"We need to hear the hearings," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. The last hearing is tentatively scheduled for Sept. 24.
Like the Democratic nominee, Republican as well Democratic senators on the Finance Committee, who began reviewing the pact today, took pains to avoid establishing any clear position. With Election Day only 55 days away and public anxiety about the economic future crystallizing around the trade pact in hard-hit areas of the nation, many politicians are hanging back until electoral trends become clearer.
Senator Bob Packwood, an Oregon Republican who is the ranking minority member of the Finance Committee and who faces a tough re-election fight, said he would not make up his mind until after the Finance Committee had held four scheduled hearings on the issue. Two Republican Senators whose terms are up in 1994, John C. Danforth of Missouri and Dave Durenberger of Minnesota, took the same position.
 
Accusations of Hast
 Senator Max S. Baucus, the Montana Democrat who as chairman of the Subcommittee on International Trade led free trade senators last year in their successful battle to give the White House the authority to negotiate the accord, led the charge against it. He said the Administration had rushed into a flawed agreement to be able to claim a triumph in time for the Republican convention, which opened in Houston on Aug. 17, five days after the pact was announced.
"It is clear that some important provisions have gotten short shrift," Mr. Baucus said in a speech at the first Finance Committee hearing today. "Despite strong advice from many of us in Congress, this agreement simply does not pay adequate attention to job displacement or environmental concerns."
The President's top trade official, Carla A. Hills, insisted in her testimony before the Senate Finance Committee this afternoon that the agreement would protect the environment and create more jobs than it eliminated, and that the agreement had not been rushed.
Mrs. Hills, the United States trade representative, also said that all issues were resolved before the announcement was made, and that work on the agreement since then had been limited to the drafting of legal text. She and Mr. Danforth pointed out that the Finance Committee routinely votes on amendments and bills while leaving the final legal text to be drafted later.
People involved in the negotiations said that all substantial issues were resolved last month and that the continuing talks among lawyers were limited to narrow points like punctuation and the consistency of legal language from one chapter to the next in the seven-inch-thick agreement.
Exchanges between Mrs. Hills and Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Finance Committee and is the most influential Senator on trade issues, were especially acerbic. Mr. Bentsen said that Mrs. Hills had inaccurately reported the extent of progress on the accord and that Republican attacks on Mr. Clinton threatened the bipartisan majority in Congress in favor of free trade. Mr. Bentsen said he would not give his position on the pact until after his committee's hearings.
Both Congress and Mr. Clinton have plenty of time to make up their minds under the special rules for consideration of free trade pacts. To begin with, the Administration still has not legally submitted the agreement to Congress because some of Mrs. Hills's 40 private-sector advisory groups have not yet finished their reports on it and because some legal details are still being hammered out.
Once the reports and the agreement are ready, probably not until at least next week, the agreement will be formally submitted for Congressional review. Mr. Bush will be able to sign it 90 days later.
Early next year, whoever is President will have the right to send legislation to Congress putting the agreement into legal force. The President drafts the legislation in consultation with Congress, which is not allowed to amend it. Each house will then have 90 Congressional working days to vote on the pact, with a simple majority needed for approval.
 
Provisions Could Be Added
 Congress votes on the legislation, not the agreement, which does not address hot-button issues such as retraining for workers who lose their jobs to cheaper Mexican labor or environmental cleanup along the border. The legislation could legally include many provisions on such questions so long as the provisions do not contradict anything in the agreement.
The main text released today contained detailed rules for the elimination of restrictions on everything from cross-border investments to the purchase of goods and services by Government agencies and state-owned enterprises in all three countries.
The text was as interesting for what it did not include as for what it did. Omitted, for example, were any new restrictions on American agriculture to inhibit competition in the highly protected industry and raise prices for consumers.
An Agriculture Department analysis, scheduled for release soon, concludes that the pact would have little net effect on most Americans' supermarket budgets. The analysis is politically opportune for the Administration because it allows assurances to consumers and farmers that neither's interests are being sacrificed.
The agreement does include lengthy rules that goods be produced within North America to qualify for duty-free treatment. The rules are intended to prevent the evasion of import taxes by exporters outside North America, who would otherwise be tempted to ship all their goods for the Mexican, Canadian and American markets through whichever country offered the lowest tariffs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, lobbying for the North American Free Trade Agreement before the Senate Finance Committee in Washington. A copy of the pact is in front of her. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. D2)
 
Chart: "Principal Provisions of the Agreement"
 Advertising -- American and Canadian companies will be able to do business in Mexico without local offices and hiring local staff.
 Agriculture -- Duties on all farm products will be phased out, some quickly, some over 15 years.
 Autos -- Over 10 years, Mexico's requirement for a rough balance in the import and export of cars and car parts will be phased out. So will tariffs on trucks and on cars if 62.5 percent of the car's value is built in North America.
 Disputes -- Special judges will resolve disagreements.
 Energy -- Mexico will pay performance bonuses to successful oil exploration companies.
 Financial Services -- Limits on American and Canadian ownership of Mexican banks, securities firms and insurance companies will be removed in stages, with all limits removed by Jan. 1, 2000.
 Immigration -- Most professionals from all three countries will be able to work anywhere in North America more easily, but large-scale immigration from Mexico will be barred.
 Jobs and the Environment -- The agreement makes no direct provision for job retraining in the United States, or for environmental cleanup along the Mexican border.
 Tariffs -- Customs duties on nearly 10,000 products will be eliminated over 15 years.
 Textiles -- Garments will qualify for duty-free treatment only if the yarn is made, the cloth is woven, and all cutting and sewing are done in North America. Canada has won a partial exemption from this rule. (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); CANADA (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY ACCORD AS (71%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); CANADA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); GOVERNORS (57%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); HILLS, CARLA A (TRADE REPR) ; BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



250 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 NEW YORK CITY
 
 A CASE STUDY
 IN FAILURE
Five-year-old Randi Anderson scrawled on the walls of her foster home with lipstick. She stole money from her foster mother's purse. She broke all her toys. But while three New York City child-welfare workers concluded that she needed counseling, she never got it. And when she provoked her foster mother's 20-year-old son once too often, she was beaten to death. Randi did not fall through a small, isolated tear in the safety net. Although hers was an extreme case, it points up the failings of the city's child welfare system in caring for the thousands of emotionally troubled children who have poured into foster care in recent years. A1.
 
 BYSTANDERS KILLED IN BRONX SHOOTING
An argument at a block party in the Bronx escalated into gunfire that killed two bystanders, including a woman who was seven months pregnant, the police said. The baby was delivered in a Caesarean section but died three hours later. B3.
 
 51 TICKETS AND STILL DRIVING
Despite a long record of reckless driving and the lack of a valid license, a flawed system failed to keep Christopher Devita off the road. A tow-truck driver who has been stopped by the police and ticketed 51 times since 1985, when his drivers license was suspended, Mr. Devita was behind the wheel on Sunday when he plowed into a car and killed a woman in Brooklyn. State and city officials say that government agencies had no way to prevent a similar incident from occurring. B3.
 
 A man wrongfully convicted can sue for damages, a Federal appeals court ruled. B3.
Olympia & York will shed a Manhattan office building. Business Day, D3.
 
 REGION
 
 A GUILTY PLEA
 IN EXXON CASE
The man accused of abducting a top Exxon official pleaded guilty to seven counts of conspiracy and extortion, describing in detail a ransom scheme that went brutally awry and ended, he said, with the victim dying in his arms. A1.
 
 JUDGE OUSTED FROM SMOKING CASE
The Federal judge who has been at the center of major cases on the risks of smoking for the last decade has been removed from one of those cases by a Federal appeals court, which said that his own words suggested bias against the tobacco industry. The decision capped a five-year effort by the tobacco industry to remove the judge, H. Lee Sarokin of Federal District Court in Newark, from tobacco liability cases, including a New Jersey case that went to the Supreme Court. A1.
 
 CLINTON TALKS JOBS IN CONNECTICUT
Governor Clinton campaigned in Connecticut, focusing on the need to make American manufacturing more competitive. Whether or not people agreed with his proposals, he was talking about what many wanted to hear: jobs and the economy. A14.
 
 THINNING THE GOOSE POPULATION
Like football games and falling leaves, goose hunting is a symbol of autumn in western New York. But this year the sounds of gunfire were heard before Labor Day, a result of a special 10-day hunting season aimed at thinning the goose population in three counties. B5.
 
About New York by Felicia R. Lee B3

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Paying Rent" shows rent payments in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Source: 1990 Census)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CORP (50%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CONCEPTS (50%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FOSTER CARE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); GUILTY PLEAS (86%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (86%); CHILDREN (78%); CASE STUDIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); SPORT HUNTING (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); CITIES (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (70%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); APPEALS (68%); JUDGES (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); EXTORTION (67%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (66%); SMOKING (66%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (66%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); DAMAGES (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



251 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Connecticut Visit;
Clinton Tours Plant to Talk About the Issue: Jobs

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST HAVEN, Conn., Sept. 8

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton campaigned in Connecticut today, focusing on the need to make American manufacturing more competitive. Whether or not people agreed with his proposals, he was talking about what many wanted to hear: jobs and the economy.
Addressing workers at an employee-owned factory in Portland, and speaking outside a restaurant here where he met with Democratic leaders, Mr. Clinton added details to his own economic plan, while accusing the Bush Administration of lacking one. 
 "Unlike our competitors, America has no national economic strategy," he told employees of Standard Knapp, a manufacturer of packaging machinery in Portland. "Instead we have a series of unconnected, piecemeal efforts, and trickle-down economics. Under trickle-down economics, our manufacturing strength has trickled away."
The Arkansas Governor proposed using money saved from military cuts to establish 170 manufacturing extension centers, modeled on the agricultural extension centers that have long aided American farmers, to help small and medium-sized companies.
 
Emphasis on Retraining
 Twenty-five of the centers, he said, should be in areas hit hard by military cuts and devoted to retraining both production workers and scientists from military contractors.
He also proposed rewriting Federal tax laws to provide incentives for investing in new manufacturing equipment, and encouraging more spending on research and development for small and medium-sized companies and on promoting their exports.
"A lot of the problems we face today don't fall very neatly within categories of left and right, or liberal and conservative, or Republican and Democrat," Mr. Clinton said.
"We're living on the post-cold war world," he said, "where we have to fight and compete for every job we get, where nobody can promise you to make it the way it used to be, where no one can repeal the laws of change."
Mr. Clinton at first received a restrained reception this morning at Standard-Knapp, where both machinists' union members and white-collar workers took part in an employee buyout of the company in 1984. Standing on a podium on the shop floor, he spoke for several minutes before applause interrupted him.
But his recounting of the decline of American manufacturing hit home in the factory, whose 200 employees survived some tough years after the buyout. Many have friends and relatives who are either out of work or worried about losing their jobs.
"Family values and all that -- everyone likes to talk about it, but the economy is what everyone's worried about," Cliff Scovill, a machinist, said while waiting for the Governor.
Even a Republican and supporter of President Bush, Jeremy Segal of Bristol, said Mr. Clinton was right in saying that "something's got to be done," and conceded, "I don't know what Bush is doing, really."
But speaking of Mr. Clinton, he went on: "I want to know where he's getting the money. If he takes it from defense cuts, that's going to cost jobs. If he takes it from taxes, that's going to hurt."
Mr. Clinton's emphasis on economic themes should find receptive listeners in Connecticut. Recent polls by the University of Connecticut for The Hartford Courant and by Quinnipiac College in Hamden suggested that the economy was by far the most important issue in Connecticut and the metropolitan region, hard hit by the recession, military cuts and the loss of manufacturing jobs.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Misstatement on Missile
 PORTLAND, Conn., Sept. 8 (AP) -- Gov. Bill Clinton misstated the role of the Patriot misile system in the Persian Gulf war in a campaign appearance here today.
Encouraging the manufacturing of successful American products, Mr. Clinton said huge sums are spent to develop new military weapons. "We do all this basic research and people come up with great ideas, and then they turn them into things like the Patriot missiles which will go through doors or down chimneys."
Patriot missiles are used to shoot down other missiles. The Bush campaign issued a brief statement ridiculing Clinton, saying he had "shown his complete ignorance about even the most fundamental defense system."
Mr. Clinton was apparently thinking of warplane camera images from the Persian Gulf war that showed pinpoint hits by laser-guided bombs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton greeting supporters yesterday during a campaign stop in Middletown, Conn. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CORP (84%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CONCEPTS (84%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES (84%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; SMALL BUSINESS; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); PACKAGING EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); FAMILY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); EXPORT PROMOTION (66%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (61%); PACKAGING EQUIPMENT (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); JUDSON, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



252 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Cellular Phone Industry Reports Growth

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Despite a persistent recession that has hit its most loyal customers especially hard, the cellular telephone industry reported record growth in the six months ended June 30, with nearly 8.9 million subscribers. The number of subscribers grew 17.6 percent from the December 1991 half and 39 percent from the half a year earlier.
Meanwhile, McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the nation's largest cellular service provider, reported that its subscriber base had grown to nearly two million. That is up 17 percent from the December half and up 38 percent from the June half a year ago. The growth has come from new subscribers as well as acquisitions by the Kirkland, Wash., company. 
 The first-half survey by The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, the industry's major trade group, also said that first-half revenue, including "roaming" fees, totaled $4.07 billion, up 17.8 percent from the December half and 37.7 percent from the half a year earlier. Roaming fees are paid by subscribers when they enter a territory away from their home cellular company.
Cellular telephone companies report that while many subscribers drop service during a recession, heavy users of cellular service, especially business customers, either maintain or increase cellular use, possibly in an effort to drum up business during hard times.
Moreover, the price of cellular telephones has dropped markedly. Car phones, which sold for as much as $600 only two years ago, now sell for $200 or less; pocket phones, which sold for $2,000 or more two years ago, now sell for as little as $200. And the price of service, while not dropping as rapidly, has stabilized at 20 cents to 65 cents a minute, depending on various pricing plans, about 15 percent less than price ranges two years ago.
The average monthly bill has been declining, mainly because of a change in the mix of customers. The average monthly bill as of June 30 was $68.51, down about 6 percent from the December 1991 level and about 8 percent from the half a year ago.
"We are getting more than just the businessman and businesswoman but the consumer as well," said Norman Black, a spokesman for the group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCAW (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (91%); CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (96%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (70%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (65%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



253 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Bank Yields Fall Again For Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit were down sharply in the latest week ended today, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, a Florida-based publication.
Analysts at the publication said the Federal Reserve Board might still have to move interest rates significantly lower if the economy continued to slip and slide. In that case, investors may see a one-year bank C.D. under 3 percent, the analysts say. But they also note that the central bank finds itself in a bind: the Fed cannot protect a falling dollar if it lowers interest rates. 
 Should the choice come down to the economy or the dollar, analysts said, the Fed may have to bite the bullet and lose some of that foreign investment money in order to lower rates.
 
Treasury Rates Are Down
 At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills held yesterday, rates were down sharply, shadowing the drop in short-term interest rates on Friday, when the Fed lowered the Federal funds rate.
The Fed's move was brought on by an unexpected weakness in the employment data for August. The weekly Treasury auction is regarded as a reliable barometer of how banks may set deposit rates in the weeks ahead.
The average rate at auction for a three-month bill plunged 26 basis points yesterday, to 2.91 percent, while the rate of a six-month bill lost 31 basis points, falling to 2.95 percent. The average discount rates for both the three- and six-month bills are the lowest in nearly three decades. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Bank Money Market: 2.95%
 The combined New York area average for yields in the latest week showed a modest decline, with a money market account and three-month certificate of deposit both off 3 basis points, to 2.95 percent and 3 percent, respectively, while a six-month certificate fell 4 basis points, to 3.19 percent.
At commercial banks, where yields were hammered, a money market account was off 5 basis points, to 2.77 percent. Three-month and six-month certificates of deposit were off 4 basis points, to 2.87 percent and 3.02, percent respectively.
Depositors at savings banks saw the average yield slip a bit less on a money market account, down a basis point, to 3.13 percent. But three- and six-month certificates each dropped 4 basis points, to 3.13 percent and 3.35 percent, respectively.
The largest adjustments of yields in the New York area were by the Bank of Tokyo, which cut its money market account by a quarter percentage point, to 2.28 percent; its three-month C.D. by 31 basis points, to 2.24 percent, and its six-month C.D. by 38 basis points, to 2.27 percent.
Outside the New York market, yields at 20 large banks surveyed were not down as sharply. Bank money market accounts and six-month C.D.'s fell 2 basis points, to 2.87 percent and 3.09 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (50%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (50%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



254 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Expected to Announce Details of New Credit Card

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Think of it as a frequent drivers card.
The General Motors Corporation is expected to make a widely anticipated announcement today that it will issue a new Mastercard and possibly a Visa credit card designed to build loyalty among car buyers. 
 Although the world's largest auto maker has been tight-lipped about the card, G.M. executives and analysts said the card's features include no annual fee and an interest rate set at 10.4 percentage points above the prime rate, which is currently 6 percent.
That matches the lowest primary rate, which is now offered by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, although some cards offer lower rates for the best customers. The current average rate for credit cards nationwide is 18.17 percent, according to the RAM Research Corporation of Frederick, Md.
The G.M. card's most noteworthy feature is that it offers users up to $500 a year in rebates toward the purchase of new G.M. cars. A consumer would have to spend $10,000 in one year on the card to receive that amount, based on the 5 percent rebate that will be capped yearly at $500. But the offer is said to be cumulative over three years for a maximum of a $1,500 rebate.
On average, consumers spend $2,400 a year on their charge cards, an amount that would generate a $120 rebate yearly toward a G.M. car. But as industries like health care and supermarkets increasingly accept credit cards, that number may rise.
The terms of G.M.'s card, considered attractive by industry analysts, will make it a competitive threat to not only other credit-card issuers, but also to Ford and Chrysler, which do not issue cards with direct incentives for buying their wares.
Ford offers a credit card carrying its blue oval logo through Associates National Bank, a unit of Ford's financial services group. Like Sears's Discover card, the Associates card offers cash rebates based on annual purchases; the more one spends, the greater the percentage rebate. But because of Federal regulations, Ford cannot offer direct incentives for its own products through a bank it effectively owns.
Chrysler's consumer finance company, Chrysler First, administers so-called private label credit cards for individual merchants. The company declined to comment on why it has not issued its own branded card.
G.M.'s logo may be joined on the card by other companies, an auto industry analyst said. Potential candidates include the Avis and National rental car companies, in which G.M. holds financial interests. The Marriott Corporation seems another logical candidate, because G.M.'s board of directors includes J. Willard Marriott Jr., chairman of the hotel chain. The nature of the incentives offered by such partners is unclear. G.M. is expected to announce details of the card at a news conference today.
Robert B. McKinley, president of RAM, said the low rate and the pledge of no annual fee were certain to appeal to consumers, whose loyalty to particular credit cards has dwindled in recent years. About 8 percent of all credit card holders voluntarily switch their cards every year. "They'll have no problem signing up customers," he said.
G.M. will be competing with many other nonbanks that have issued credit cards. Such cards are part of a larger strategy by many companies, including auto makers, to aim advertising at existing customers, which are considered easier to sell to than strangers.
The GE Capital Corporation, for example, last week introduced a card that offers discount coupons and rebates from 24 large companies. Called the Reward Card, it has a higher percentage rate, 12.4 percent above prime, and a $25 annual fee, which Mr. McKinley said consumers resented. The cards offered by all the major airlines, promising frequent flier mileage, charge annual fees.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "How the G.M. Card Will Compete" shows G.M.'s credit card compared with those of the largest issuers (Source: R.A.M. Research Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); MAR (NYSE) (80%); HST (NYSE) (61%); T (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (80%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (80%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (56%); 

CITY: FREDERICK, MD, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (80%); RAM RESEARCH CORP (69%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (61%); AT&T INC (57%); ASSOCIATES NATIONAL BANK (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS SALES REBATES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); HOTEL CHAINS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



255 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt Falls Again

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Consumers reduced their outstanding debt in July for the sixth consecutive month, the Government said today in a report indicating that Americans improved their balance sheets but remained cautious about spending.
The $1.12 billion decline translated into a 1.9 percent annual reduction rate and followed a revised five-tenths of 1 percent decrease in June, originally reported as a 1.7 percent drop, the Federal Reserve said. 
 It was the 12th decline in 15 months and illustrated Americans' determination to reduce their debt in the face of sluggish income growth and a stagnant job market.
While economists view the process as needed to lay the groundwork for a healthier economy, they say it is inhibiting spending and holding back the fledgling recovery. Consumer spending accounts for roughly two-thirds of the nation's economic activity.
The one bright spot in today's report was an increase in automobile loans at a 2.4 percent annual rate. It was the first increase in that category since March and followed a drop at a 12 percent annual rate in June.
Revolving loans, which include credit cards, fell at a seven-tenths of 1 percent rate in July. Other loans were down at an 8.3 percent rate. That category includes loans for mobile homes, education, boats, trailers and vacations.
The various changes left total consumer debt not secured by real estate at $721.5 billion in July, the lowest total since April 1990.
President Bush, in a campaign appearance before the international Jewish service organization B'nai B'rith, acknowledged that consumers were cautious but predicted a rebound.
"I have been concerned about the confidence factor because you've had so much gloom and doom about the economy that people are scared," he said. "And, yes, things have been slow but I am not pessimistic long run."
However, private economists see no signs consumers are prepared to start borrowing and spending again in the amounts needed to lift the economy from stagnation.
"It's a slow, arduous effort to restore balance sheets," said Robert G. Dederick, an economist at Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "It's gone on and on so far with no indication that it's ending. In the long run, people will be well positioned, but the long run can be long indeed in coming."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" shows net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding from 2/91 to 7/92 (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MOBILE HOMES (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



256 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Women Turn to Self-Help Groups For Abortions, Despite the Risks

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Using aquarium tubing, a mayonnaise jar, a drugstore syringe and a dentist's saliva ejector, three of Lucila C.'s friends gave her an abortion last spring.
The procedure, known as "menstrual extraction," was developed before 1973, when the Supreme Court legalized abortion. 
 In the years since, it has been little used. But a 1989 ruling making it easier for states to restrict abortion rights and a decision in July upholding restrictions in Pennsylvania have led more women to seek alternative methods of ending pregnancy.
This July, for example, menstrual extraction appeared on the program of the National Organization for Women's annual conference in Chicago. In June, it was a topic at the annual Wellness Conference of the Black Women's Health Project. Last spring several NOW chapters held workshops on the subject.
Carol Downer, one of the most prominent advocates of the procedure, said efforts to teach the technique were also under way in Louisiana and in rural areas where access to abortion is limited.
Lucila, a resident of the San Diego area, would speak only on the condition that she not be completely identified. She was unemployed and had no health insurance when she became pregnant. Rather than going to a clinic for an abortion, she went to her self-help group. "The core of my decision was definitely financial," she said.
Many of the women who belong to these self-help groups discovered them through one of the 20 or so Feminist Women's Health Centers, which together form a loosely bound federation. They offer everything from traditional abortion services to literature describing how to do without the services of gynecologists.
Their main office, in Los Angeles, has put out several books and a videotape describing menstrual extraction. Ms. Downer, co-author of "A Woman's Book of Choices: Abortion, Menstrual Extraction, RU-486," which will be published in October by Four Walls Eight Windows, estimates that 1,000 abortions were performed this year using the technique.
But menstrual extraction also has plenty of passionate critics within the abortion-rights movement, largely because of the medical and legal risks it poses. Skeptics also point out that most advocates are well-educated women who could easily get safe and legal abortions anyway.
Menstrual extraction basically involves inserting a flexible tube, called a cannula, through the cervix and pumping a syringe to remove the contents of the uterus through suction. Practitioners say the technique can be used through the eighth week of pregnancy.
 
Back to 'Bad Old Days'
 But Dr. Michael Policar, vice president for medical affairs of the Planned Parenthood Federation, calls the procedure "a regression to the bad old days" when those who performed abortions were not always doctors. He stresses that nonprofessionals, no matter how well-intentioned, would not know how to manage medical complications from an abortion.
Barbara Radford, executive director of the National Abortion Federation, which represents more than 300 abortion providers, concurred, adding that no statistics had been published on the safety or efficacy of the procedure. She contended that the federation's educational videotape "misleads the consumer" by glossing over the potential pain and hazards of the procedure.
But Dr. Cheryl Gibson, associate medical director of Planned Parenthood of Northern New England, said performing safe abortions was mostly "a matter of getting good at a technical skill." If the women doing menstrual extractions had adequate training and a "system of referral" for managing complications, she said, she "wouldn't have a problem with it."
Ellen Yaroshefsky, a professor at Cardozo Law School who is studying the legal implications of the technique, said a "politically hostile district attorney" might prosecute practitioners of the technique for practicing medicine without a license.
But she added that defining the practice of medicine could be muddy. New York State, for example, defines medical practice as "diagnosing, treating, operating or prescribing for any human disease, pain, injury, deformity or physical condition." She said much would depend on whether the procedure was seen as treatment or health maintenance.
But most Feminist Women's Health Centers and self-help groups are still concentrated in urban areas with liberal abortion laws. This does little for the women who live in areas that lack abortion services, which include about 83 percent of the nation's counties. Critics also contend that menstrual extraction is not feasible for most teen-agers, who have not had time to develop a sense of their bodies' rhythms.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Downer of Feminist Women's Health Centers promotes the technique of menstrual extraction. (Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times); Dr. Michael Policar of Planned Parenthood stresses the possible dangers of the technique. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATUREWELL INC (66%); FOUR WALLS EIGHT WINDOWS (53%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (57%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (57%); NATIONAL BLACK WOMEN'S HEALTH PROJECT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (57%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (57%); NATIONAL BLACK WOMEN'S HEALTH PROJECT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; WOMEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS ABORTION (92%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); VERDICTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); WRITERS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



257 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Vending Machines, the Next Generation in Dining

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
IT'S not hard to see the flaws in vending machines. They swallow money and never return it. They promise to drop a package of candy but freeze in mid moment, cruelly dangling something that cannot be reached. Or they offer food that is appealing only to the desperate.
But there are visions of what a vending machine can be: a quick, easy way to get fresh, nutritious food, valued not as a last-ditch choice but as an appealing alternative. There is a growing belief in the food industry that the next few years will witness the transformation of vending from a static, change-resistant business into one that will provide food anywhere people happen to be: in trains, in airports, on beaches or in offices. The food would be what many people want but often can't get from a machine, things like fresh pasta cooked on the spot, perfect cappuccino or the finest frozen yogurt. 
 "There are huge changes coming in vending," said John Patten, the president of the Campbell Food Service Company in Camden, N.J., which sells Campbell Soup Company products to restaurants and vending-machine companies.
Some of the first tentative signs of change are already being spotted: vending machines that grind coffee from beans and brew a fresh cup; machines that dispense cappuccino and espresso, and systems that use debit cards rather than coins, eliminating the problem of bill changers that do not function or coins that mysteriously disappear.
Other changes are on the horizon. This fall, E. C. C. International Corporation, an Orlando, Fla., defense contractor that is trying to diversify, will begin selling vending machines that offer frozen foods that can be bought and then heated in a microwave oven. And Ore-Ida Foods, a potato company in Boise, Idaho, plans to begin production soon of a machine that cooks french fries with hot air. The machine is being tested in 45 sites across the country.
"There are a lot of interesting machines coming," said Jim Watkins, the president of Golden Valley Microwave Foods in Minneapolis, a part of ConAgra Inc., the nation's second-biggest food company. ConAgra executives bought Golden Valley a year ago in part because they hoped its vending experience would help ConAgra put its brands, like Healthy Choice, into machines.
Although radical changes could take years to establish, there are several reasons to believe that they are likely to occur. Vending has long been a dormant area of the food business, which is constantly seeking new areas to exploit. Now, executives at large companies say vending has become a priority. Canteen Corporation, for instance, a large cafeteria and vending company in Spartanburg, S.C., is testing a variety of the new machines, including those that make french fries, dispense frozen food and cook pizza.
Changes in the economy are also creating a demand for better vending in more places. The shrinking of large companies has led to the closing of many company cafeterias. They are being replaced with vending areas, and people who depend on the machines want better food than currently available.
Vending has been slow to change partly because the business for years could depend on what it called the four C's: cold drinks, candy, confections and cigarettes. Most of the items were small and easy to buy with a coin or two. Now, the smallest candy bar seems to take a pocketful of change, which discourages purchases. And a sure source of revenue, cigarettes, has declined from 45.5 percent of the industry's volume in 1960 to 5.7 percent in 1991, according to the National Automatic Merchandising Association, the industry trade group based in Chicago.
It is not clear to all operators of vending machines, though, that their future lies in dispensing meals, rather than snacks or candy. Increasingly, they have been offering entrees, but no matter how fresh or tasty they may be, many consumers seem to believe they will not be good.
"The vending machine is the safest way to hold food, and yet there is that strange public view that things have been in there since the Constitutional Convention," said Tim Sanford, the executive editor of Vending Times, a publication that covers the industry.
The perceptions affect what people are willing to pay and buy. "We are still looked at strictly as a convenience and not as a food source," said David Clayton, the president of Automatic Food Service Corporation, a vending company in Nashville, with about $5 million in annual sales. "People don't expect to go to a vending machine and buy steak and a baked potato."
Mr. Clayton, who is the chairman of the National Automatic Merchandising Association, said that even when shoppers buy well-known brands from machines, they expect to pay less than they would for the same item bought in a grocery store. Maybe that is so because people are more conscious of the price when an item is bought individually, or maybe it's because an item in a machine requires so many coins.
Mr. Clayton's group has been pushing Congress to put a dollar coin into widespread circulation that would make using vending machines easier. Dollar-bill changers, he said, do not take care of the problem because they fail to work 20 percent to 30 percent of the time.
But the real solution may be the cashless machine. After installing a system on the Vanderbilt University campus two years ago that uses debit cards, Mr. Clayton saw his sales more than double. And Canteen has greatly increased its vending business in prisons over the last five years by using cards, a move encouraged by prison officials who do not want inmates to carry cash that can be used in activities like gambling.
A debit-card system also started operating six months ago at the new office complex of Chase Manhattan Bank in downtown Brooklyn. Employees put cash into a machine, which then credits a combination debit and photo-identification card that can be used in the company cafeteria or in vending machines within the building. Barry Zamore, a Chase employee who was buying a Pepsi and a package of Famous Amos cookies one day last week, said the debit system makes it easier to buy because a person does not need to have coins on hand. "I really do buy more sodas at work now," he said.
There are numerous problems, though, that may make the transformation of vending a tough job. Vending companies that set up the machines and stock them with food tend to be small operations that are not flush with cash for buying new, unproven machines. They are not wholly resistant to change, but with most new machines costing at least $5,000, the change has to pay off or they face going out of business.
Bill Buckholz, the president of Goodman Vending Service in Reading, Pa., is wary of some of the new machines. "Every year for 10 years," he said, "we've had someone come up with a french-fry machine." But many of them posed a fire risk because unlike the one from Ore-Ida, they cooked with oil. "It disturbs you when they sell a machine with a built-in fire extinguisher," he said.
Still, the changes Mr. Buckholz is making are indicative of the slow movement in the industry, though it is expected to accelerate. A year ago, he put out machines that make cappuccino and espresso, and they have doubled his coffee sales. "I've never been too high on coffee vending," he said, "because I never thought we had that great a cup of coffee. Now, I'm excited about coffee for the first time."
Consultants said some of the most drastic changes in vending may come from companies that are not in the food business, or from upstarts that have something to gain by challenging current methods of distribution.
Robert B. Noble, the chairman of Noble & Associates, an advertising and public-relations company in Springfield, Mo., that specializes in the food business, believes that vending machines can be situated anywhere. "Food will be wherever people congregate," he said. "If a bank can use a machine to take care of your money transactions, why can't they have a food-vending machine where you can pick up a sandwich? Why not do it all in one stop?"
Mr. Noble considers vending the next generation in a steady shift toward convenience that began decades ago with prepared mixes for making cakes. For the provider, he said, the advantages are clear: "It doesn't have a personality you need to motivate."
Richard Rakowski, a partner at Ryan Management in Westport, Conn., who has been consulting with several companies on possibilities for vending, considers Japan the model for where the United States could go. Vending is more common there and is used for a greater variety of high-quality items, including beer, sushi and even steak.
"My vision is the semiautomatic restaurant," he said. "Imagine taking your debit card and dispensing your own yogurt, or the components of a sandwich." He said he is working with one client on a battery-operated machine that could provide food anywhere, unhindered by the need for electrical outlets.
Meeting the needs of vending customers, though, is not easy. People are extremely impatient even in stores. "If you can't get things to a consumer in a convenience store in two minutes, they won't go in," said Mr. Patten of Campbell. They are at least as demanding when it comes to being served by a machine. "People want quality, homemade food in 30 seconds," he said.
With the microwave, that is theoretically possible to accomplish. It can be used to zap either refrigerated or frozen food held in the machine. James Ferguson, a vice president for new products at E.C.C. International, said that his company has developed a machine that will hold up to 40 selections of frozen food. The company has orders for 30 of the machines, and expects to start delivering them next month.
Mollie Little, who works at Sumitomo Bank in New York, is the kind of customer that the vending industry is trying to lure. She often takes her lunch to work, but said that she would buy from a machine if she could get good sandwiches, salads or entrees from companies like Weight Watchers or Lean Cuisine. Now, though, she sticks to buying soda or trail mix because she does not like sandwiches from machines. "It always seemed," she said, "that the bread was soggy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Zamore, an employee at Chase Manhattan Bank, using his debit card at a vending machine at work. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (86%); CPB (NYSE) (82%); CUB (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (86%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (86%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (86%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (86%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (86%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (82%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS238290 OTHER BUILDING EQUIPMENT CONTRACTORS (82%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (82%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (82%); SIC1796 INSTALLATION OR ERECTION OF BUILDING EQUIPMENT, NEC (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (70%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (86%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (82%); CUBIC CORP (82%); CANTEEN CORP (60%); ORE-IDA FOODS INC (53%); GOLDEN VALLEY MICROWAVE FOODS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (70%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; VENDING MACHINES VENDING MACHINES (90%); FROZEN FOODS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (89%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (86%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); ICE CREAM (75%); FOOD MFG (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); DEBIT CARDS (50%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



258 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 6; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: 2 Ballet Troupes Discuss Merger

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
The board of American Ballet Theater is to meet today to discuss solutions to the company's financial troubles and its immediate cash-flow problems. One plan that has been under intensive discussion in recent weeks is a merger with the Joffrey Ballet, also financially hard-pressed and with a cash-flow problem. The Joffrey board also meets today to discuss such a merger, a possibility first reported last week in The Washington Post.
In June, Ballet Theater hired McKinsey & Company, New York-based management consultants, to explore the feasibility of such a plan, which was proposed by members of both boards, including a major donor to Ballet Theater. 
 Both companies said they planned to perform as scheduled for the 1992-93 season. Ballet Theater's engagements include a tour of Japan, performances in Buenos Aires, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Chicago, and seasons at the Metropolitan Opera House and at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. The Joffrey is scheduled to perform in Germany in October, followed by engagements through July in Minneapolis, Iowa City, San Francisco, Detroit and Chicago, and seasons at City Center in New York and at the Kennedy Center.
 
Dancers Still Unpaid
 Ballet Theater failed to pay its dancers supplementary wages that were due on Thursday and were expected to be paid yesterday. A Ballet Theater board member, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said yesterday that he did not know when the payments, a contractual obligation that supplements the dancers' unemployment benefits during scheduled layoff periods, would be made.
The company is also a month behind in its payment of premiums for the dancers' health and hospitalization insurance. "At this moment, the coverage has been temporarily suspended pending payment of the account," Alex Dube, administrator for dance at the American Guild of Musical Artists, the union representing the dancers, said yesterday. The insurance is to be reinstated retroactively upon payment of the premium, Mr. Dube added. "Ballet Theater has a good record," he said. "And it's not unusual that some companies with a cash flow problem make late payments."
This is not the first time either company has suffered severe economic problems. Ballet Theater, founded in 1940 by Lucia Chase and Richard Pleasant, was forced to suspend activities twice, in 1948 and 1965. And the Joffrey, founded in 1954 by Robert Joffrey and Gerald Arpino, was effectively dissolved in 1964 when Rebekah Harkness, a sponsor of the company, withdrew her support and took most of the Joffrey's repertory and dancers into a new company of her own. The Joffrey was re-formed the following year. Its future also seemed in doubt in 1990 when a bitter dispute between boards in New York and Los Angeles erupted over control of the company.
The two companies, both major American dance institutions, are confronting the nationwide recession. The Joffrey has a deficit of $2.7 million. Ballet Theater's deficit has been reported at $4 million to $5 million. Ballet Theater owes one of its largest donors, the Gilman Investment Company of New York, a sum that Howard Gilman, the company's chairman, described as substantial. "I think we may be their largest creditor outside the banks," Mr. Gilman said yesterday. He said that under the terms of the loan, made in 1989 to pay for the creation of Twyla Tharp's "Everlast," the troupe cannot refinance loans or borrow new money before paying back the Gilman loan or without the company's permission.
 
Merger's Pros and Cons
 Ballet Theater's problems have been compounded by the fact that the company has also been searching for a new artistic director since Jane Hermann, named co-director with Oliver Smith in 1989, announced in May that she would resign on Sept. 1. One candidate mentioned frequently in recent weeks is Kevin McKenzie, a former Ballet Theater principal dancer who is now an artistic associate, a principal dancer and a choreographer with the Washington Ballet. There have been reports, unconfirmed by either Ballet Theater or the Joffrey, that Mr. McKenzie might become co-director of a merged single company with Mr. Arpino.
The Ballet Theater dancers, in talks with the board two weeks ago, proposed that Mikhail Baryshnikov, director of the company from 1980 to 1989, be invited to return. They are said to oppose any merger.
Dancers for both companies are currently on layoff and are to return to rehearsals late this month. And the notion of a merger raises a number of significant questions. The McKinsey report offered a model for a merged company, which would be formed after both troupes filed for bankruptcy, with 65 dancers and a reduced performance schedule. Ballet Theater now has 83 dancers, the Joffrey about 40. The Joffrey dancers are now working without a contract, but the Ballet Theater dancers' contract does not expire until Oct. 31, 1993. Under the terms of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which does not stipulate the liquidation of a corporation but permits resumption of business, reorganization would not automatically nullify the dancers' contracts.
 
Stylistic Differences
 A merger might expand the two companies' financial bases, although it is unclear how significant the expansion would be. And a merger would involve two very different companies and repertories, raising serious artistic questions. The Joffrey's profile is of a young, populist classical ballet troupe known for its experimentation with avant-garde and modern dance, as well as its high-speed, joyously explosive style of dancing. It is a profile developed and nurtured by Mr. Arpino, one of the few American ballet company directors who leads a company he also helped to found.
Although the Joffrey has a collection of important ballets of the 20th century, chiefly by Sir Frederick Ashton, Kurt Jooss and Leonide Massine, the heart of its repertory is ballets by Mr. Arpino that are very different in style from anything in Ballet Theater's repertory. Under Mr. Baryshnikov, Ballet Theater began to acquire ballets by modern-dance choreographers, but it was founded as a museum of 19th- and 20th-century international classics. It remains that to a large extent, with a style closer to the classicism of 19th-century ballet. Sorting out the contractual rights to each company's productions could be a complex procedure. It is not unlikely that the smaller, newer Joffrey might disappear altogether in such a merger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOFFREY BALLET; AMERICAN BALLET THEATER WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (95%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (95%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOFFREY BALLET; AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (95%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (95%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES BALLET (94%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); THEATER (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); DANCERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); DANCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); OPERA (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



259 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Peter Watrous

 BODY:

Linda Ronstadt's Beginnings
Linda Ronstadt's transition from big pop star to small pop exoticist has been greeted with both critical abuse and commercial decline. Where Ms. Ronstadt used to have a flourishing pop career, she's now been making records that delve deep into nearly forgotten pop and folk genres, from her album of standards with Nelson Riddle, " 'Round Midnight" (Elektra), to her more recent "Mas Canciones" (Elektra), an album of Mexican folk and mariachi music. 
 Ms. Ronstadt, who grew up in Tucson, Ariz., and has a Mexican ancestry, has just released an album, "Frenesi" (Elektra), which tries to revive the glory days of Mexican international pop music. In the 1940's and 50's, Mexican pop, heavily influenced by Cuban music, turned out a set of songs that became standards in Latin America, coinciding with a burst of activity in both the arts and Mexican film.
"This is the music I would sing a lot in the living room," Ms. Ronstadt said by telephone from Tucson. "A lot of what's on the new record -- 'Quiereme Mucho' is a good example -- my dad and I would sing. And a lot of that music was on the radio. And when we'd go on vacation in Mexico, we heard it there. I'm crazy about it. I can't get enough of it."
Like Paul Simon and David Byrne, Ms. Ronstadt has been attacked for her lack of authenticity, the idea being that performers have to stick to their background. But Ms. Ronstadt is doing exactly that.
"Actually, the least authentic stuff I do is rock-and-roll, which I came to late in my life," she said. "I was successful, and I wasn't going to argue about that. The success gave me a platform and I learned something about singing American pop music, which I'm glad to know. Look, I didn't grow up in Tennessee, so Dolly Parton is more of a stranger to me than Mexican singers. The stuff I sing with the most authenticity is the Mexican rancheras, which have always influenced my pop style."
Oddly, Ms. Ronstadt says she doesn't know much about the source of the music on "Frenesi": Afro-Cuban music and its modern evolution, salsa. She's more interested in the Mexican manifestation of it.
"I really don't know anything about Cuban music," she said. "I know about the 18th century, that Caribbean mixture out of which so much evolved. Mambos are ideal examples, an absolutely wonderful collusion of taste and sound, a wonderful use of the European orchestra and its Creolization. The sound is made for dancing."
Ms. Ronstadt says she is not making much money doing this. "Frenesi" is the kind of record that makes a record executive cringe. "When I said I wanted to do the project I heard: 'Oh moan. Oh groan,' " she said. "The Spanish-language records sell a quarter of what my English records sell. It's good way to get poor. But I love the music. When I started doing the album I started dreaming in Spanish, so I was overjoyed to just let it flow, and I jumped into this project."
 
Roots and Rhythm
 Roots and Rhythm, a mail-order company, which since 1974 has been the country's foremost source for older American popular and rural music, is the sort of place that offers so many goodies that it threatens the rent.
Run by Frank Scott, an authority on blues and gospel music, the company's most recent catalogue includes the extraordinary eight-CD Louis Jordan box set, a huge selection of Japanese P-Vine imported CD's, including music by Johnny Shines, Lightnin' Slim and Lonesome Sundown. There's music from Peru, Cuba and Okinawa, along with klezmer music. There's country music -- Hank Thompson, Roy Rogers, Hank Garland -- folk and Irish. And there's a huge section of vintage rock-and-roll, along with jazz. The range is from budget-price $9 CD's to $30 Japanese imports.
And for those looking for books, the catalogue includes Erik Raben's monumental jazz discography, and "The Pied Pipers of Rock 'n' Roll: Radio D.J.'s of the 50's and 60's," which explores, among other things, payola. And the company sells rock magazines.
Running across another Roots and Rhythm aficionado is like running across someone who shares the same blissful guilt.
"It's a wonderful resource and clearinghouse for roots music," said Andy McKaie, the vice president of catalogue development at MCA and the brains behind the terrific Chess Reissue series. "Frank does as much with his mail order to sort the good from the bad and promote the high end of the reissue field as anybody. He's a national treasure."
But the company has been bitten by the recession and is badly in need of capital. Mr. Scott, the owner and an authority on earlier American music, is thinking about selling off his collection of rare 78's, a collection that includes records by Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters (his first session, which was with an electric jump band) and Lightnin' Hopkins. And the company, which sends out catalogues so varied and complete that they can virtually serve as discographies, is having trouble working up its next.
"We're in the frustrating position of being far behind on payments because of the recession," said Mr. Scott. "The summer has been pretty slow, just like it has been in other industries. Major labels are not interested in working with smaller stores, so we're in trouble there. We're living day to day hoping that somebody would be interested in investing with us. We're going to survive, but it's going to be hard."
Orders may be made through Roots and Rhythm, 6921 Stockton Avenue, El Cerrito, Calif. 94530; (510) 525-1494.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Ronstadt (Elektra Entertainment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: POP LIFE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROOTS AND RHYTHM (CO) ROOTS&RHYTHM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROOTS AND RHYTHM (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%); ARIZONA, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); DANCE (72%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); 

PERSON: RONSTADT, LINDA; WATROUS, PETER LINDA RONSTADT (97%); NELSON RIDDLE (57%); PAUL MARTIN 'PAUL M' SIMON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



260 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Mets Plan to Shake Up Their Scouting System

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 8

 BODY:
The bureaucratese was polite and antiseptic, the official announcement loaded with terms like "efficiency" and "restructuring." What the Mets, in announcing a reworked scouting and talent development operation, said today was this:
*The economics of baseball are in potential trouble. 
 *The state of the Mets' young talent was highly questionable.
*The combination is a disaster waiting to happen.
The announcement made today was in itself essentially straightforward: the Mets will replace their "more traditional" scouting format, one that included a formal director of scouting, with an arrangement than will include three regional scouting directors. Those directors will deal closely and constantly with their scouts in the field, enjoying what the organization termed "unprecedented autonomy and responsibility."
"We were looking for ways to improve the efficiency of evaluating and acquiring amateur talent," said Gerry Hunsicker, the vice president for baseball operations who will assume overall responsibility for the system. "Scouting and player development are increasingly important because of the economics of the game. We're going to be relying on them even more."
 
Blunt, Obvious Question
 The blunt, obvious question was then asked: Is the shakeup a reflection of a significant degree of dissatisfaction with the performance of the club's talent development system? The answer was as blunt: yes.
"Over the last five or six years, we haven't had a lot of talent get to the major leagues," said Hunsicker.
The checklist of recent top draft choices makes for fairly embarrassing reading. Gregg Jefferies, selected in 1985, is the last No. 1 selection to make it in the majors as a player of impact. Lee May Jr., Chris Donnels, David Proctor, Alan Zinter -- those were the selections in 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1989. Enough said.
 
Too Tough a Job
 "I choose to use the word restructure to describe what we're doing," said Hunsicker, who was the moving force behind today's organizational recasting. "It was unfair and archaic to ask one man to oversee the entire department."
Hunsicker was thus seeking to discount the notion that Roland Johnson, the long-time director of scouting for the Mets, had been demoted. He underscored that by saying that Johnson would remain as the Northern Regional scouting director. Joe Mason will be assigned the Southern region and Bob Minor the Western.
"If we didn't think a lot of Roland Johnson," said Hunsicker, "he wouldn't be one of the three men we've put in charge of the operation."
 
Highly Regarded History
 The operation, the one that had enjoyed a highly regarded reputation when it was cranking out Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden and Jefferies, has been unmasked of late. The Mets, with their unending rash of injuries, have been forced to draw on their minor league system and thus forced to admit there isn't much there.
It has been an especially disquieting admission given the age of the current club, its debatable future as a real 1993 contender and the specter of a greatly uncertain financial future of the game. The organization's trading of David Cone, for instance, was the first indication that the organization, for all its riches, may find an annual entry into an expensive free-agent market unpalatable and ultimately unacceptable.
"The goal is to find better talent and bring it in," said Hunsicker.
Hunsicker, when asked, said the club had not concluded that part of its current predicament was generated by its specific guidelines for drafting players. He said he didn't think the organization had gone too exclusively for certain types of players.
Hunsicker, though, did say that the scouting emphasis would remain primarily on pitching and would include a more focused search for speed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



261 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Dear David: Don't Even Think of It

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
THE smartest man in sports is David Stern. He can explain cable television and salary caps and the future of international basketball better than anybody I know.
David Stern also knows geography. In the National Basketball Association, the West Coast teams are actually in one division, and the new expansion teams in Florida eventually gravitated to the Eastern divisions. 
 This familiarity with the location of American cities would disqualify David Stern from becoming the new gofer of the baseball owners. The owners want a parrot who will chirp obediently, "Atlanta and Cincinnati are farther west than Chicago and St. Louis." They want somebody who will do their bidding.
They do not want David Stern, whose name has been bandied about in the wake of Fay Vincent's forced resignation as baseball commissioner on Monday.
If the owners had any sense, they would abolish the title of commissioner because they have rendered that historical position totally worthless. They should not insult our intelligence by calling anybody else commissioner.
Some people continue to pay lip service to baseball's being a national game, but what is the point? When I covered the coal industry, every time a miner was carried feet first out of a mine, the coal operators did not refer matters to a so-called commissioner who had to pretend he was on everybody's side. They sent out the lawyers and the flacks.
The difference is that baseball bluffs and bullies impoverished cities into building new ball parks and highways.
But maybe this naked commissioner business will encourage the cities and the courts to question the public's relationship with baseball.
The owners could hardly be blamed for considering Stern, who makes $4.5 million a year, including bonuses, seven times what Vincent was paid.
But even if the baseball owners ponied up the money, there is no way the man should even think about it.
The biggest drawback dwells in Tampa. George M. Steinbrenner squeezes the joy out of everybody. The owner of the Yankees was one of the last people to call A. Bartlett Giamatti while the beleaguered seventh commissioner was trying to take a weekend holiday on Martha's Vineyard.
The eighth commissioner, already in trouble with recalcitrant owners, heard rumors that Steinbrenner had been tampering with the hearts and minds of Yankee employees while Steinbrenner was under suspension for consorting with a known gambler.
Vincent promptly summoned Yankee employees to his office, including a reluctant Gene Michael.
In the past, Steinbrenner had made some employees weep from rage and frustration, and now Steinbrenner has contributed to paranoia and a public beheading of a commissioner.
The business end of baseball should also scare Stern, who negotiated the salary-cap agreement with the basketball players. That was a rare blend of circumstances and personalities; Stern and the late Larry Fleisher, the head of the players' association, understood each other; the game was in trouble, and basketball players had a heady blend of independence, intelligence and college exposure that allowed them to accept a new economic concept.
Basketball is thriving now, an exciting night out in a couple dozen cities across the country. Plus, you can pretty much tell the baby sitter what time you'll be home. The sport also has the biggest frontier of any sport in North America.
Stern emphatically denies he has plans for a worldwide league, and he makes a lot of sense when he calls for strong national leagues, bigger world club tournaments, and heightened interest in world championships for national teams. The model exists -- it is called soccer -- and basketball is fast gaining on it.
After years of growth, baseball is stagnant in North America.
Expansion looms as an artistic joke. There is no National League schedule for next year because the Giants are unsettled. The owners have paid foolishly for marginal players, and when the unbelievably high CBS contract runs out in a year, you can expect the following bulletin: Game called on account of bouncing checks.
The owners have dug themselves a deep hole, and they cannot even see the sense in working together. They don't want a commissioner; each of them wants his own private swag man and hit man.
Why would David Stern want to work for them? The challenge, you say? I respond with George Steinbrenner, and that should stop him right there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Stern (Stephen Dunn/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (91%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); COAL MINING (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE; VINCENT, FAY; STERN, DAVID (COMR) DAVID STERN (96%); FAY VINCENT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



262 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE STORM;
Boom Time for One Industry Amid South Florida's Rubble

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Benjamin Strunk had no steady job and was getting by "just doing odds and ends, helping out friends" in his hometown of Tazewell, Tenn., when Hurricane Andrew hit southern Florida two weeks ago. One look at pictures of the devastation, and Mr. Strunk knew that if he could get here, he had work for as long as he wanted.
So the 27-year-old Mr. Strunk picked up his tools, and with a friend, Michael Coon, and Mr. Coon's pet Airedale, S.J., piled into a Ford pickup and drove nearly 1,000 miles to the disaster zone. Two days ago, at 7:00 A.M., the two men began work as laborers, earning $8 an hour from the construction company that hired them to strip shingles, tarpaper and plywood from houses that need new roofs.
 
'A Shot in the Arm'
 
For the hundreds of thousands of people here whose homes have been destroyed or severely damaged, the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew has become an ordeal to be endured patiently while the reconstruction of Dade County goes on. But for the men whose sweat and skills are essential to the rebuilding effort, the storm has produced a bonanza.
Thousands of roofers, carpenters, electricians, glaziers, plumbers, masons, air conditioning mechanics and heavy equipment operators from around the country are already in South Florida or are on their way. In the streets of towns like Homestead or Goulds, construction trucks from as far away as Texas or New England, sporting logos with unfamiliar area codes and company names, are parked in front of houses, apartment buildings and stores.
"This is a real shot in the arm," for the depressed construction industry, said Thomas Mendez, a contractor based in Boca Raton, Fla., who has already hired 300 craftsmen and plans to hire 700 more. "Two weeks ago there were thousands of unemployed construction workers around here. Right now, anybody who is not working is just plain lazy."
The opportunities appear to be virtually unlimited. Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida estimated last week that at least 85,000 homes in the Miami area were "uninhabitable," and will need either to be repaired or totally rebuilt. Even in a good year, said Charles Lennon, executive director of the South Florida Builders' Association, new construction in Dade County "is not even 10 percent of that figure."
Beyond that, nearly every shopping mall and office complex in Miami's southern suburbs was damaged in the storm. There are also schools, hospitals and government buildings that must be rebuilt. In all, Mr. Lennon estimated, "at least five years" of rebuilding, representing billions of dollars in contracts, will be required before the Miami area returns to "a semblance of normality."
 
'I'm Ready to Go
 Kenneth Gregory, a contractor from Greenwood, Ind., had plenty to do back home, but thought that since the work available here "figures to be a lot more lucrative," he would try for a piece of it. He arrived in Homestead this weekend with a crew of four and five generators to repair his father-in-law's house, which he plans to use as his base of operations until at least Halloween.
"My main interest is to cover as many roofs as I can and go home in a few months," Mr. Gregory said. "I've brought in 400,000 square feet of nylon reinforced plastic in a rented trailer, and I'm ready to go." People were coming up to his truck, he said, and asking how soon he could work on their homes.
Demand for workers has become so intense that construction wages, long depressed, are now skyrocketing. A carpenter who a few weeks ago might have been earning $8 an hour is now making $12 while working 12 hours a day, foremen are earning as much as $15 an hour.
"I can't find enough help," Ernie Bonham, of Bonham and Associates, a custom glass company from Daytona Beach, Fla. "I've called 50 different guys looking, and everybody everywhere is busy."
The labor shortage is just fine with Gilberto Melendez, a Homestead resident who lost his roof as well as his job as a cook in an Italian restaurant when the hurricane stormed through. "I'm making $8 an hour installing roofs," he said, "so I'm not only getting the money I need to put my own roof back on, but I'll be able to do it myself with what I've learned on the job."
But many local business owners worry that most of the benefits of the post-hurricane reconstruction will be short-lived in Dade County. Moreover, they are disturbed by the influx of tradesmen from around the country and contend that local contractors and their long-idled workers should get first crack at jobs.
"We don't need 6,000 unemployed carpenters from Massachusetts clogging up Interstate 95 looking for a job," Mr. Lennon said. "Our position is that the pipeline should fill from the bottom up. Let's first get these unemployed people in Dade County to work, then branch out through Florida, and only then go outside Florida."
For that reason, there was some grumbling last Friday when the Army Corps of Engineers awarded XX contracts of $15 million each, for work ranging from debris removal to school rehabilitation, to Brown & Root Services of Houston and five other companies not based in Miami. But David A. Rich, a spokesman for the corps, said "the contracts require that all contractors give priority to Dade County businesses for supplies, subcontracted services, equipment" and labor.
Spokesmen for the corps said the six companies were chosen because they had proven track record with the agency and it was important to begin rebuilding immediately.
Others contend there is more than enough work to keep everyone busy. "South Dade doesn't have enough skilled people to rebuild this place, and neither does the state of Florida," said Willie Mitchell, a foreman from Kissimmee, Fla., who turned down a job building Atlanta's Olympic Village to come here with his wife Denise and live in a pup tent in a parking lot.
The local authorities are concerned that many of the out-of-state contractors are not licensed to work in Florida, whose building codes are much more rigorous than those of many other states. While they want to see compliance with the codes, they acknowledge that they lack the inspectors to oversee the hugh amount of rebuilding going on.
Some out-of-state contractors are simply evading Florida's licensing rules, saying the qualification process is too time- consuming, expensive and demanding. But others, like Mr. Gregory, are hooking up with longtime friends who have local licenses and are working to their specifications.
For their part, suppliers expect that even after roofs and walls have been rebuilt and the insurance checks have arrived, the need to restore the interior of homes means they will continue to profit. "Business is going to go off the Richter scale," predicted Roger Berry, owner of Berry's Carpets and Paint, a Homestead store that also sells draperies, wallpaper, tile and vinyl flooring.
But the surge in demand for basic building materials has begun to create both bottlenecks in supplies and price increases, most notoriously in the case of plywood.
"I need shingles by the truckload, as well as plywood, building felt, nails and mending plates," said Mr. Mendez. "I have the customers, the workers, the insurance, and the money. What I don't have are the supplies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hurricane Andrew has meant a boom for those whose skills are essential to the rebuilding effort, including roofers, carpenters, electricians, masons and plumbers. A truck along U.S. 1 in Homestead, Fla., advertised construction services on Tuesday. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH FLORIDA BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; DADE COUNTY (FLA); MIAMI (FLA) UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HURRICANE ANDREW TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WEATHER (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); TRENDS (71%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (70%); GLAZING CONTRACTORS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY BENJAMIN STRUNK (63%); CHARLES LENNON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



263 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Check-Off for Debt Lets Citizens Fight Back;
Clinton's Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
George Bush proclaimed in his acceptance speech that his opponent, Bill Clinton, was responsible as Governor of Arkansas for 128 tax increases (transcript, Aug. 21). Such a willfully false and misleading assertion invites refutation.
Three of the 128 so-called tax increases listed by the Bush-Quayle Committee are simply a miscounting of lines of text (Nos. 31, 86 and 91), according to Michael Kinsley's analysis of the list in The New Republic for Aug. 21. No. 78 is a verbatim repeat of a 25-cent-a-gallon increase in the tax on "light wine" (No. 74). Other "increases" include a court cost imposed on convicted criminals (No. 92) and a license fee for abortion clinics (No. 48). Objecting to these as "taxes" makes George Bush look pro-criminal and pro-abortion. 
 Lengthening the dog-racing season (No. 46) was counted as a tax, on the ground that a longer season increased state revenues. A fuel-tax increase was counted twice, once for gasoline and once for diesel; and an alcohol tax was counted five times, including once for wine coolers.
If this represents the depth of knowledge and analysis the President brings to financial matters, no wonder the economy is stalled.
The Bush-Quayle Committee, assessing this spurious list of its own construction, claims that Governor Clinton raised taxes by $397 million. Using the same method of calculation, Mr. Kinsley reckons that President Bush raised taxes by $476 billion in his first term. This is 1,200 times more than the amount attributed to Governor Clinton. On a per capita basis, Mr. Bush raised taxes each year 33 times more than his rival. Whom should we trust? Certainly not George Bush and his statistics.
Such calculations are not necessarily helpful guides to tax policy. The United States is in a dire situation with its national debt. That Germany, France and Japan with their considerably higher tax burdens have been doing well economically shows that what we do with tax dollars is more important for economic prosperity than how many are collected.
Mr. Bush shows little understanding of the connection between fiscal policy and economic performance -- in other countries or at home. We need much more serious and much less superficial thinking about how to finance government services and economic growth.
 
NORMAN UPHOFF
Ithaca, N.Y., Aug. 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSH-QUAYLE COMMITTEE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH-QUAYLE COMMITTEE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (68%); ABORTION (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); UPHOFF, NORMAN BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



264 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Saks Names A New Vice Chairman

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The management shake-up at Saks Fifth Avenue that has produced a number of high-profile departures in recent months continued on a more positive note yesterday when Gary Witkin, executive vice president and director of the department-store division of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, was named vice chairman of the specialty retailer.
The move from Minneapolis to New York is set for Oct. 1 and will reunite the 43-year-old Mr. Witkin with Philip Miller, his former boss in retailing positions at four other chains. 
 Mr. Miller, who joined Saks as vice chairman and chief operating officer in 1990, is expected to succeed Melvin Jacobs as chairman when Mr. Jacobs retires next spring. In addition to disclosing Mr. Witkin's appointment to his team, Mr. Miller said yesterday that Brian Kendrick, who joined Saks as chief financial officer last year, would take on broader responsibilities and add the title of executive vice president.
 
A New Lineup
 The new moves continue a thorough renovation of Saks's management team: since last spring, Arthur Martinez, Mr. Miller's one-time rival for Mr. Jacobs's job, and five senior vice presidents have departed.
"I would like to think of myself as a partner, but my direct areas of responsibility will be stores, real estate, construction, clearance centers, visual merchandising, and customer development," Mr. Witkin said yesterday. Mr. Kendrick takes responsibility for financial and administrative functions. Both men will report to Mr. Miller, who will continue to oversee Saks's merchandise buying.
Saks currently operates 50 stores in 22 states. The company has been closely held since 1990, when it was acquired from the American subsidiary of Britain's B.A.T. Industries P.L.C. by Investcorp and Saks's management. Investcorp is a subsidiary of the Arabian Investment Banking Corporation.
 
'Entrepreneurial' Opportunity
 Earlier this summer, Mr. Miller said he hoped to double the number of Saks stores by 1997 and take the company public in three to five years. Mr. Witkin said yesterday that the "entrepreneurial" opportunities of working on such a strategy, along with the "tremendous franchise" the Saks name represents, attracted him to the job.
The move is something of a homecoming for Mr. Witkin, who was born in the Bronx and lived in Westchester before going to the University of Cincinnati to study economics and management. He began his business career as a department manager at the White Plains outlet for Wallach's Inc. in 1970, where Mr. Miller was among his superiors. Mr. Witkin later worked under Mr. Miller at Lord & Taylor, Neiman Marcus and, most recently, Marshall Field's in Chicago. Mr. Witkin was president of Marshall Field's when it was acquired in 1990 by Dayton Hudson.
Mr. Witkin and his wife, Judy, have two teen-age children. His hobbies include fishing and collecting antique cars and comic books.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about management changes at Saks Fifth Avenue described Investcorp S.A. incorrectly. It owns a minority stake in Saks and represents Persian Gulf investors who collectively have a controlling interest. It is not a subsidiary of the Arabian Investment Banking Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: M (NYSE) (85%); TGT (NYSE) (85%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (53%); BTI (JSE) (53%); BATS (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE MACY'S INC (85%); TARGET CORP (85%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); RETAILERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (67%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (65%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; WITKIN, GARY PHILIP S MILLER (92%); MELVIN E JACOBS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1992



265 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
BUSH AGAIN VOWS NO TAX INCREASE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, N.J., Sept. 9

 BODY:
Traveling to Pennsylvania and New Jersey suburbs, President Bush renewed his no-new-taxes pledge today, promising he would not raise taxes again, "ever."
The President campaigned on improving education, but quickly ended up defending his management of an economy that even he conceded, not once but three times, was "lousy." 
 Mr. Bush, who broke his last campaign's no-new-taxes pledge to solve a budget crisis, said he would not agree to raise taxes in a second term. "I went along with one Democratic tax increase," he said, "and I'm not going to do it again. Ever. Ever."
 
'Trying to Get It Done'
 Mr. Bush's comments today made a fine distinction from his prior statements on the subject. He has previously expressed regret over the 1990 tax increase that he approved in a budget deal with the Democrats. In his speech to the Republican National Convention last month, he promised a new, unspecified "across-the-board" tax cut. Today's remarks were the closest he has come to an outright renewal of his no-new-taxes pledge from 1988.
Mr. Bush attributed the country's economic troubles to a Congress that has refused to enact his economic programs and a recession that he said was global, not just American.
"I just have to insist on that," he said, almost plaintively, in a session with factory workers at a tube-turning plant in Norristown, Pa., "and try to make the people understand that I haven't just been sitting there, I've been trying to get it done."
Aides said the President would try again on Thursday to get his message to the public, delivering a speech to the Detroit Economic Club in the afternoon and buying five minutes in prime time on three television networks to explain his economic policies directly to the public.
Mr. Bush will offer some new prescriptions for the economy in his Detroit speech, aides said, but they will be relatively minor adjustments to a series of programs, already in effect, "that most people aren't even aware of."
The President is also likely to announce a toll-free telephone number for requesting a booklet that explains his package for economic growth, a White House aide said.
 
An Unfiltered Appeal
 Mr. Bush has tried several times to describe his plans for reviving the economy, including at innumerable campaign stops and in his State of the Union Message last January, a commencement speech in Texas in June and at the convention.
The latest effort is directed by Robert Zoellick, an economic expert who is deputy to James A. Baker 3d, the new White House chief of staff.
One Baker aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said previous fragmented efforts offered only "an initiative here, an initiative there" without showing how they comprised a larger policy to revive the economy.
The President said this morning, after meeting with Republican Congressional leaders at the White House, that his message was not getting through to the public.
"I've tried to stimulate this economy and been rebuffed," he said, "and I think the American people will see that clearly. I don't think they see it yet, but they will when we get through."
Aides said Mr. Bush's television appearances were intended to deliver his economic message to the public unfiltered by the national press and broadcast analysts, a political tactic that Mr. Baker has used many times.
That Mr. Bush is still trying to explain himself, 55 days before the election and almost 10 months after he first acknowledged that the economy was stumbling, underscores the uphill political battle he is in.
That was apparent even in the Republican strongholds he visited today.
In Norristown, a middle-class city 30 miles north of Philadelphia, Republicans outnumber Democrats by more than 2 to 1. But the Presidential election is still "up for grabs," said Jerry Slater, a history teacher at Norristown Area High School, where Mr. Bush spoke today.
"These are people who want a change," Mr. Slater said. "They want jobs; they want education money. There are only two ways to go: the status quo and change. And Bush has to represent the status quo."
A local Republican committeeman, Steven Rothenberger, said Mr. Bush was gaining ground in Pennsylvania, a crucial industrial state in this election.
But that did not seem clear at the tube-turning factory, Uniform Tube Inc., where Mr. Bush was peppered with pointed questions from about 200 workers and invited guests.
The President told them the nation was in a transition zone, moving from what he called "economic hell" to being "poised, in my view, for a decent and strong recovery."
One worker quickly asked what assurance Mr. Bush could offer that his relations with Congress would be any better in a second term than in his first. Another asked what Mr. Bush would say to workers at "companies like Allied Tank and Anchor Glass -- local people, who have lost their jobs due to plant closings during your tenure in office."
The President replied, "I'd say we've been caught in a very tough economic time. And we've got to move forward now with incentives to stimulate the economy."
Mr. Bush roundly attacked Congress for failing to enact Administration proposals, made in January, to grant tax breaks on new factory investments and to give first-time homebuyers a $5,000 tax credit.
"But let me say this on the economy: It is lousy," he added moments later. "We know that. We've been trying to stimulate it. And we're in a global recession. It's not just the United States. Take a look at Canada. Take a look at England and France and Germany. It has been too long."
Speaking at a Bush-Quayle rally at the Middletown Township Veterans of Foreign Wars Hall, Mr. Bush repeated a longstanding proposal to freeze Federal spending that is not tied to entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid and to cap the growth of such programs.
"That cap would save almost $300 billion over five years," he said. "And we can take those savings and cut taxes across the board.
"And I've already vetoed one Democratic tax increase, and I'll veto another if I have to. I've got a pen right here in my coat to do just that. No more tax increases."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeting supporters after making a speech during a campaign stop yesterday in Middletown, N.J. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



266 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin Cancels a Visit to Japan As Dispute Over Islands Simmers

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 9

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin abruptly put off a visit to Japan today, only four days before he was scheduled to leave, after negotiations throughout the summer failed to resolve a bitter territorial dispute that has haunted Moscow-Tokyo relations since World War II.
A brief official announcement said only that the decision to postpone the trip to Japan and South Korea, scheduled for Sept. 13-18, was made "taking into account the obtaining circumstances," but it did not spell out the precise reasons. 
 There was no mystery in either Russia or Japan, however. In both countries, conflicting claims to a group of sparsely populated islands in the Kurile chain north of Japan had swelled into heated issues of national honor, blocking any compromise and any chance of a meaningful visit by Mr. Yeltsin.
Also blocked was any chance of Russia's receiving an increase in direct economic assistance or investment from Japan, which Tokyo had made clear would not be forthcoming without resolution of the territorial dispute. Mr. Yeltsin had evidently been hoping for substantial Japanese economic help.
In Japan, officials said they were surprised and somewhat insulted by the Russian leader's sudden action. As late as today, Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa was meeting with aides to plan for the visit, and a senior diplomat said he would be "very surprised" if rumors of a cancelation proved correct.
The chief Cabinet Secretary, Koichi Kato, said in a statement that the Government "regrets the postponement," but he used a word that also meant "deplores."
The notice of postponement in Moscow said a new date would be "coordinated through diplomatic channels." But while there were reports from the Foreign Ministry that Mr. Yeltsin would probably reschedule his visit to South Korea for December, when he already has trips to China and Romania planned, there was no indication when he might next try to visit Japan.
 
Islands Seized in 1945
 The islands were taken by the Soviet Union in the closing days of World War II, in accordance with its interpretation of secret arrangements worked out by Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin at the Yalta Conference in February 1945. Since then, they have remained the principal obstacle to the conclusion of a formal peace treaty formally ending hostilities of World War II. A compromise proposed in 1956, by which Moscow would have recognized Japan's sovereignty over two of the islands, was never formalized, and Moscow withdrew it when Japan and the United States expanded their relationship in 1960. Since then, Japan has become increasingly firm on winning recognition of its claim to all four.
The Soviet Union long claimed that its possession of the islands was a just price, along with southern Sakhalin Island, for entering the war against Japan in the summer of 1945. But in recent months the islands have evolved into a burning national issue going far beyond whatever strategic or economic significance they and their 25,000 inhabitants have to either side.
Politicians and commentators from the nationalist and Communist camps painted emotive images of a weakened Russia being stripped of its lands and of a precedent that would lead to territorial claims against Russia from all sides. China, for example, has long claimed part of the Russian Far East.
 
Security Issue Invoked
 The military pitched in with claims that Russia's Far East would be exposed, and politicians from the region invoked lost fisheries and minerals. Mr. Yeltsin's political opponents gleefully seized on all these arguments, making a political banner out of the South Kuriles.
The arguments found fertile soil in a nation humiliated by the collapse of its empire, and public-opinion polls last week showed that up to 60 percent of the Russian population had become adamantly opposed to the islands' transfer to Japan.
That left Mr. Yeltsin with the choice of refusing any deal on the islands and getting cold-shouldered on aid by Japan, or offering some compromise arrangement and fueling a political inferno at home on the eve of brutal new battles with the parliament.
Contributing to his decision were the facts, widely discussed in the Moscow press, that Japan was in any case not prepared to offer significant aid now, and that Tokyo would probably refuse any compromise that fell short of recognizing Japanese sovereignty over all four islands.
The actual territory in dispute consists of three islands, Kunashiri, Etorofu and Shikotan, as well as a cluster of islets known as Habomai. Most of the population lives on the larger islands, Kunashiri and Etorofu.
 
Gradual Transfer Suggested
 Japan has repeatedly signaled that it would be willing to accept a phased transfer of the islands over many years, as long as its sovereignty was acknowledged now.
Mr. Yeltsin was also probably mindful of the political damage to former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev when he returned from Japan in April 1991 empty-handed, then too because of the Kuriles.
Suggestions that postponing the trip might be the wisest course were heard in both Moscow and Tokyo. But the abrupt, 11th-hour decision by Mr. Yeltsin was widely expected to further irritate relations between Russia and Japan and to bolster the hands of hard-liners on both sides.
Mr. Yeltsin had insisted that the visit was on as recently as last Sunday, when he assured the Japanese over television that "my official visit to Japan will begin on Sept. 13 notwithstanding the fact that in Japan there are certain forces which are hyping 'the northern territories' issue too much."
 
Discussions in the Kremlin
 The announcement of the postponement said the decision had been made after "an exchange of views" involving the leadership of the Russian Government, the Supreme Soviet and the Security Council.
The first inkling that the visit was in trouble came when Mr. Yeltsin failed to appear at a scheduled noon meeting with Japanese correspondents in the Kremlin because a Security Council meeting on the visit was "proceeding with great difficulty," as the president's spokesman explained.
The Security Council includes senior officials from the intelligence and military establishments, some of whom have openly campaigned against returning any of the disputed islands.
But it seemed unlikely that Mr. Yeltsin would have bowed to pressure from others unless he himself was already wavering. There were ample signs that he was: a visit to Moscow by Japan's Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, ended last week with no sign of compromise, and Japanese correspondents in Moscow said that Mr. Yeltsin's staff never produced a final schedule for his visit.
The postponement was probably a major disappointment to Mr. Yeltsin, who, with his Foreign Minister, Andrei Kozyrev, has worked hard to build an international stature approaching that of his Soviet predecessor and rival, Mr. Gorbachev, and to demonstrate a new and more liberal foreign policy.
Mr. Yeltsin had evidently begun planning the trip in Tokyo in early summer assuming that he could advance the debate over the Kuriles and move forward where Mr. Gorbachev had stalled.

GRAPHIC: Map showing location of islands in Kurile chain. (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KURILE ISLANDS; RUSSIA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) KIICHI MIYAZAWA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



267 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
YELTSIN POSTPONES JAPAN VISIT
With a bitter territorial dispute still unresolved after months of negotiations, the Russian President canceled a trip to Japan only four days before he was to leave. A1
 
APARTHEID'S VIOLENT LEGACY
As the South African Government tries to reunify into its territory the tribal homelands it created, the killing of 28 people in one homeland on Monday showed the explosive disagreement about where homelands fit in the post-apartheid order. A1
 
KOHL ACKNOWLEDGES ERRORS
Addressing Parliament, the German Chancellor said he had mishandled some aspects of unification and that the process had brought more problems than he had expected. He predicted that "for a long time" Bonn would have to spend more than $100 billion annually on the east. A3
 
FRENCH VOTE UP IN THE AIR
The only thing certain about the Sept. 20 referendum on the European union treaty is that the outcome is uncertain. The latest polls show supporters and opponents evenly split, with a large percentage of probably voters undecided. A3
 
IRAN SAID TO SEND ARMS TO BOSNIA
Western officials said that in the first documented evidence of support from an Islamic country to the Muslim-dominated Government of Bosnia, a planeload of Iranian arms and military personnel had been intercepted in Croatia. A10
 
MUSLIMS ACCUSED IN U.N. ATTACK
The head of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Sarajevo said that Muslim militiamen were responsible for the attack on a United Nations supply convoy Tuesday that killed two French officers and wounded five. A11
 
INDICTMENTS IN UGANDA ARMS CASE
A senior aide to the President of Uganda and four other people were indicted on charges that they had illegally tried to export antitank missiles and launchers to Uganda. Two of the men were also accused of illegally trying to sell helicopter parts to Libya. A10
 
RABIN FLEXIBLE ON GOLAN
The Israel Prime Minister strongly suggested that Israel was willing to return at least part of the annexed Golan Heights for peace with one of its Arab enemies. A8
 
CHINA TALKS TOUGH ON U.S. TRADE
Jolting already strained relations, China's Government-controlled press agency said China was ready to retaliate with punitive tariffs if the United States restricted the import of Chinese-made goods. A15
 
Waterford Journal: Surviving the shattered boom in crystal. A4
 
National A16-21, B8
 
CLINTON PRESENTS A WELFARE PLAN
Urging an "end to welfare as we know it," Governor Clinton proposed a $6-billion-a-year program of job training and education for recipients of public assistance. A1
Clinton pointed to a dearth of Jews in high Administration posts. A20
Clinton and the draft may yet become a big Republican issue. A20
 
NOT AGAIN, BUSH SAYS OF TAX RISE
Campaigning in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, the President attributed the "lousy" state of the economy to what he described as a stubborn Congress and said he would not agree to increase taxes again, "ever." A1
In New Jersey, Bush assailed Clinton by way of Florio. A21
The Administration opened fire on health-care policy. A21
Bush's new attack on Congress followed a brief, friendly respite. A21
 
NEW CHAPTER IN HOUSE BANK CASE
Federal agents swept across Capitol Hill to hand-deliver the first of hundreds of letters clearing overdraft-writing lawmakers of criminal wrongdoing. But many House members were left empty-handed. B8
 
CARNES WINS CONFIRMATION
After two days of angry debate, the Senate confirmed Edward E. Carnes, an Alabama prosecutor widely known for his skills in arguing death-penalty cases, to an important Federal appeals judgeship. A16
 
MANY BURDENS AT FOUR CORNERS
In the weeks since Hurricane Andrew struck, the women who serve as the leaders of Four Corners, La., have begun rebuilding. For them, the task is virtually spiritual. A16
A Miami TV weatherman has emerged as an unlikely hero. A16
 
VICTORY FOR 'DAMNED IN THE U.S.A.'
A Federal judge ruled that a coalition of film makers and civil rights advocates had the right to distribute in the United States a British documentary about censorship in the arts. A17
 
'CENTERS' FOR THE MENTALLY ILL
A survey of American jails found that more than half of them regularly hold people with serious mental disorders on trivial charges or no charges at all. A18
 
WHITTLE GAINS A PARTIAL VICTORY
A California judge declined to shut down a San Jose district's operation of Channel One, the in-school news and entertainment program shown with commercials. But the judge imposed new restrictions to make clear that neither teachers nor students can be forced to watch it. A19
 
In Washington, another big-city police chief is departing. B8
New data on American recruitment of Nazis could be at hand. B8
 
Metro Digest B1
 
WASHINGTON HTS. DECISION
A grand jury has cleared a New York City police officer in the fatal shooting of a drug suspect whose death in July touched off violence in Washington Heights, a top official in the District Attorney's office said. But the District Attorney declined to announce the decision while elaborate efforts were made to stave off a repeat of the violence. A1
 
WHEN FOSTER CARE WORKS
Annie and Rafael Padilla of Queens will soon adopt a 5-year-old foster child, the son of a poor, crack-addicted mother whose destructive behavior has gradually improved. Their story is a happy ending in a foster-care system that too often fails to treat troubled children who have been abused by their parents. A1
 
DEALER ADMITS G.M. FRAUD
John McNamara, the Long Island car dealer and philanthropist, admitted that he had bilked General Motors in a $6 billion loan scheme and that he had used some of the money to bribe officials in the Town of Brookhaven. In a plea agreement, Mr. McNamara said he would assist in prosecuting the officials. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
The President and Topic A.
Assembly: Manhattan, Queens.
Topics: Justice beclouded.
Letters
William Safire: A smoking gun?
Jerome E. Groopman: A dangerous delusion about AIDS.
Seymour Martin Lipset: Polls don't lie. People do.
Felicia Lamport: One more point of light.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (85%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UGANDA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CROATIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (85%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UGANDA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CROATIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ARMS TRADE (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (53%); ARMED FORCES (51%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



268 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Clinton Presses Welfare Overhaul, Stressing Job Training and Work

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton today called for an "end to welfare as we know it" and proposed a major program of job training and education for recipients of public aid.
Mr. Clinton said he would quadruple to $4 billion the amount the Government spends on job training for welfare recipients and add $2 billion in tax credits for the working poor. By 1996, he said, the Government would be spending an additional $6 billion a year. 
 In exchange, Mr. Clinton repeated his past promises to demand more of parents. He said he would crack down on fathers who refuse to pay child support and limit mothers on welfare to a stay of no more than two years. After that, he said, they would have to take a job in private business or perform community service to receive Government aid.
"When poverty and jobless rolls rise, we all pay," he said in a speech at the Clayton County Social Services office here. "In the last year, we spent $8 billion more than we were spending three years ago on welfare and food stamps alone."
Mr. Clinton and his aides were mindful of the mixed signals such an announcement could send on a subject that has frequently carried with it racial overtones. The speech was set in the South, and Mr. Clinton surrounded himself with a racially mixed group of mothers and their babies. He delivered it on the same day that he addressed the National Baptist Convention, a largely black denomination.
But the campaign has determined that it can sell a message of welfare restructuring by appealing to middle-class blacks and whites rather than to racial stereotypes and following through on an issue in which Mr. Clinton has been heavily involved in his home state of Arkansas.
Mr. Clinton's speech today amounted to a reiteration of his views rather than an announcement of a new plan. For the past year, he has stressed a theme of mutual responsibility, arguing that the Government should do more to help the poor and the poor should do more to help themselves.
While Mr. Clinton has been vague on some important specifics, many welfare experts credit him with more than a decade of serious study and experimentation with welfare programs in Arkansas. He also played a major role in lobbying for the 1988 Family Support Act, which was signed by President Reagan.
"His proposals address the problems head on, in a way that is consistent with the best current thinking on the welfare system," said Isabel Sawhill, an economist with the Urban Institute, a Washington research organization.
Presenting his current program as a continuation of past work, Mr. Clinton said the act, which provides up to a $1 billion a year in job-training for welfare mothers, has "never been fully implemented and it didn't go far enough."
 
Would Use Military Savings
 He said his program would be paid for out of savings from military budget reductions and increased taxes on the wealthy that he has said would also pay for a number of other domestic programs he has proposed.
"The changing face of welfare and the changing nature of it, and the enormous barriers of people moving from welfare to a productive life deserve special attention," Mr. Clinton said. "Especially now that most people on welfare are young women and their little children." "By the time we're through, we shouldn't have a welfare program in America," he said. "We ought to have a helping hand program followed by a jobs program."
Later today, Mr. Clinton shared a stage with the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader and former Presidential candidate who has maintained a cool, almost icy, distance from the Democratic ticket since the July nominating convention.
 
Grim Greeting from Jackson
 At the annual meeting of the National Baptist Convention, Mr. Jackson sat stony-faced behind Mr. Clinton as the Arkansas Governor received a warm reception from the religious groups.
Afterward, Mr. Jackson met Mr. Clinton briefly in a backstage restroom while more than a dozen clergymen milled around outside and guarded the doorway. Mr. Jackson said later that Mr. Clinton agreed to meet with him next week to discuss voter registration plans.
"In the next 55 days, the character and the vision and the will of the American people will be severely tested," Mr. Clinton told the convention minutes before. "The other side represents the same old things except worse. But they're very good at raising the fears of the American people."
Mr. Jackson is supposed to undertake a party-sponsored voter registration bus tour later this month. He has said he is working for the party more than he is for the ticket.
"The partnership I seek is not one for elections and votes," Mr. Clinton said to the crowd. "It's one that will go way, way beyond that."
"Just remember folks, you're fighting in the greatest tradition of America," he said. "The 'We-can' crowd against the 'We-can't' crowd."
Mr. Clinton took only a few, muted partisan jabs at President Bush in his remarks today. In a fact sheet released with his speech, Mr. Clinton's staff faulted Mr. Bush for not mentioning welfare restructuring in the nominating speech he delivered at the Republican convention in much the same way that Republicans have taken Mr. Clinton to task for giving short shrift to foreign policy in his own convention speech.
 
Georgia Governor on Attack
 But the Democratic nominee left most of the direct hits to Gov. Zell Miller, the Democratic Governor of Georgia who has attacked Mr. Clinton's political opponents on his behalf before.
"George Bush, after putting more people on welfare than any other President, is complaining that the welfare system is overlooked," Mr. Miller said. "That reminds me of that Lincoln story of the man who murdered his parents and then threw himself on the mercy of the court because he was an orphan."
After remaining stable for nearly two decades, welfare rolls surged to all-time highs in the past years, fed by both the lingering recession and an increase in female-headed households. About 4.8 million families, or 13.6 million people, receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main Federal welfare program. That figure is about from 3.7 million families as recently as 1989.
Bruce Reed, the campaign's policy director, said that the welfare-to-work plan would affect the 1.8 million households that have been receiving public assistance payments for two years or more.
After those people had received the two years of training the program would provide, they would then have to leave the welfare rolls for jobs. Mr. Reed said there was no way to estimate precisely how many people would be affected within the first four years of the program.
Mr. Bush rarely discussed welfare until the campaign heated up this year. Since then, he has said that he wants to give states increased flexibility to conduct experiments.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton talking with the Rev. Jesse Jackson at the National Baptist convention in Atlanta. (Associated Press) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA; BAPTIST CHURCHES NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (82%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA; BAPTIST CHURCHES NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (82%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA) UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF RELIGION (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JESSE JACKSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



269 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: State Acquires Landmark Theater To Salvage While It Still Can

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The New Amsterdam Theater, the badly tarnished crown jewel in a string of historic playhouses along 42d Street, has been taken over from the Nederlander Organization by New York State, in the hope of salvaging the building while there is still so much left to salvage.
Structural stabilization of the abandoned, 89-year-old Art Nouveau landmark at 214 West 42d Street is to begin immediately and will cost about $450,000, said Rebecca Robertson, the president of the state's 42d Street Development Project. 
 That will buy enough time for the architectural firm Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates to draw up a longer-term renovation strategy, along with a cost estimate. Price and plan in hand, the state will then look for a new tenant for the New Amsterdam, which has both a cavernous 1,537-seat auditorium and the enormous shell of a 499-seat rooftop theater (although neither hall has seats any longer).
 
Renovation of Nearby Buildings
 Rather than being restored by the Nederlanders, as had been envisioned since 1982, the New Amsterdam will become a more integral part of the state and city's 42d Street project, which includes the rehabilitation of other nearby theaters as well as the renovation of existing commercial buildings for tourist and entertainment uses.
Title to the New Amsterdam had technically been held by the New York City Industrial Development Agency, which issued $4 million in bonds in 1982 to acquire the property. But the Nederlanders were responsible for paying off the bonds, as well as making annual payments in lieu of property taxes of roughly $250,000.
As part of a settlement, the Nederlanders have paid off the $2.6 million remaining principal and interest on the bonds and the state agreed to assume responsibility for $250,000 in outstanding tax payments.
The settlement was reached on Aug. 26 and approved on Tuesday by the Industrial Development Agency board. Title was transferred to the State Urban Development Corporation, of which Ms. Robertson's office is a subsidiary.
"This is the best shot for the New Amsterdam," Ms. Robertson said. "The alternative was to have the theater outside the project area, owned by an organization that seemed to want to get rid of it."
"I believe we will be able to find a good, responsible tenant because we will be able to deliver it in a stabilized condition," she said.
 
From Ziegfeld to Kung Fu
 Once home to the "Ziegfeld Follies," the New Amsterdam had decayed badly in the decade since the last kung fu movie was shown there, although ample evidence remains of its glittering past: robust friezes, colorful murals, naturalistic carvings and sinuous wrought iron and terra cotta.
Preservationists feared for the building's very existence in recent years, given the lack of maintenance and repairs.
But the state was not about to put money into a building that was controlled by the Nederlanders. And the Nederlanders, who had spent $15 million to acquire the building and undertake an abortive restoration, as well as emergency roof repairs, were not about to put more money into the property while waiting for the long-delayed 42d Street redevelopment effort.
In 1983, the Nederlanders began to renovate the Aerial Gardens rooftop theater for Peter Brook's staging of "La Tragedie de Carmen," but that project came to a halt when workers discovered more structural damage than had been anticipated. Last year, the New York City Opera talked briefly and tentatively about moving to the New Amsterdam, but that prospect quickly evaporated.
 
The Decision to Halt
 Last year, the Nederlanders concluded that resuscitating the New Amsterdam "was not economically viable for their organization over the next several years," said their spokesman, Howard J. Rubenstein.
Robert E. Nederlander, the president of the organization, said in 1990 that he believed the New Amsterdam "can be made into a viable, legitimate theater, but when that will happen depends on when 42d Street can be built up into an area where there are office buildings and people are not afraid to go."
The office buildings to which he referred were four enormous towers called Times Square Center, which were to have been built at the intersection of 42d Street, Broadway and Seventh Avenue as the centerpiece and driving force of the overall redevelopment scheme. Those plans were postponed indefinitely last month in favor of a more modest interim rejuvenation of 42d Street from Broadway to Eighth Avenue.
Yesterday, through Mr. Rubenstein, Mr. Nederlander said, "Safety in the area has improved dramatically and, with the retail space that is planned, that improvement should continue, so that wasn't the motivating factor for not going ahead."
Carl Weisbrod, the president of the City Economic Development Corporation, said public ownership of the New Amsterdam "provides a glorious opportunity to think even more broadly about entertainment activity on the mid-block of 42d Street."
 
'A Sigh of Relief'
 And Laurie Beckelman, the chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, said, "After years of struggling to enforce the most minimal level of maintenance, we can breathe a sigh of relief about the theater's future."
A visit yesterday to the theater, completed in 1903 to designs by Herts & Tallant, confirmed that even though there had been little in the way of upkeep, many architectural features remain in place, although some are badly deteriorated.
Shakespearean and Wagnerian scenes, depicted in a dozen friezes, still greet the visitor on entering the ticket lobby.
An enormous hole can be seen in the dome of the main auditorium, where plaster gave way after heavy water damage. And a 15-foot section of ornamental plaster has fallen away from the first balcony, like flesh removed from a skeleton. Everywhere, paint has peeled scabrously.
 
Peacocks Round the Proscenium
 But even in the musty gloom, it is plain that abundant decoration survives, including 16 peacocks around the proscenium arch, above which is an allegorical mural depicting Poetry, Truth and Falsehood, among others. That mural, with two flanking works, had been restored by the Nederlanders, Ms. Robertson said.
The roof garden, a surprisingly light and airy room, is in much worse shape. There, whole sections of wall have fallen away to reveal the steel structure. Most of the balcony is gone. The section that remains, on the south side of the building, is open at one end to the outside.
"The main problem is to get this sealed," Ms. Robertson said, as she crossed the rubble-strewn floor. "Here is where you can see us spending $500,000."
Downstairs, the oblong rotunda of the men's smoking room and lounge retains much of its ornate character, although all but one of the murals on the dome have fallen off or been removed. Carved around the perimeter are these words, still clearly visible:
"I had rather a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York State has taken over the New Amsterdam Theater on West 42d Street in the hope of salvaging the building. Structural stabilization of the 89-year-old Art Nouveau landmark is to begin immediately. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW AMSTERDAM THEATER; NEDERLANDER ORGANIZATION HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW AMSTERDAM THEATER; NEDERLANDER ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); FILM (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); CITIES (66%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W REBECCA ROBERTSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



270 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Comedy Troupe Makes It Up As It Goes

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Campaign '92 is shaping up nicely for Chicago City Limits, the improvisational comedy group that has been based in New York City for the last decade.
True, Ross Perot dropped out of the race, dealing a severe comic blow, but the two main candidates look as if they will generate enough material to sustain the company's "Unconventional Wisdom" show, devoted to the absurdities of the political olympics. 
 A recent performance by the company at its theater at 351 East 74th Street on the Upper East Side included a freewheeling Bush-Clinton debate, followed by questions from the audience. "Governor Clinton," one audience member asked, "are you still against the draft?" The answer: "No, I changed my position ever since women have been allowed to engage in active combat."
In a political version of "Jeopardy," the answer to the clue "House of Representatives" was: "What's only slightly smarter than the House of Pancakes?"
 
Defining a Good Routine
 The audience reacted not only to the humor, but also to the difficult circumstances under which it was created. Such is the distinctive dynamic of improvisational comedy.
"In general, a good stand-up routine is 8 on a scale of 10," said Carl Kissin, a resident member, who was interviewed recently after a company workshop. "We'll have 5's and 4's and 3's, but also a lot more 10's."
Behind the 10's lie a specific set of skills and techniques, which the six resident members of Chicago City Limits teach at workshops throughout the week. Some classes are restricted to members of its touring company, while others are open to the public. About 40 percent of the students in the open classes are theatrical actors hoping to develop a greater sense of freedom on the stage, but nearly as many are people in the advertising industry who want to improve their presentations to clients. They have a tough row to hoe. "Someone once described improv as driving a car by looking in the rear-view mirror," said Paul Zuckerman, the company's director.
 
No Script, Just Suggestions
 Seventeen students recently gathered in a studio on West 72d Street on the Upper West Side of Manhattan to take an advanced class from Judith Searcy, a resident cast member. (In addition to Mr. Kissin, the other members of the company are John C. Telfer, Wendy Chatman, Rick Simpson, Carole Bugge and the company's musical director, Gary Adler.) The workout was grueling. First came an exercise called Emotional Circle, in which each student was required to communicate, with maximum intensity, an emotion that was particularly difficult. The fictional situations, determined by Ms. Searcy, were such commonplace ones as trying to persuade a reluctant teller to cash a check.
"When you're acting, you have a script," Ms. Searcy warned. "In improv, you have suggestions, and it's like the audience is your script."
Some scenes sputtered and died, but others took off. In one scene, a student played the bored pilot of a downed airliner, stranded on a desert island with her flight attendant, a young man named Dylan, who was instructed to act guilty.
Pilot: "So, Dylan, why don't you look around for some provisions while I smoke a cigarette?"
Dylan (dazed and babbling): "I need to get a Coke to Row 6C."
Pilot (yawning): "Dylan, 6C is gone, as is the rest of the airplane."
Dylan (a horrible realization dawning): "Uh, Captain, do you think it's possible for a plane to crash if someone, like, accidentally turns off the rear engines?"
Pilot (after fixing Dylan with a long, steady gaze): "Dylan, I don't think you have a big future in flight attendance."
 
Evolution of an Idea
 Ideally, a well-turned bit of improvisation will take a random suggestion, fold it into the comic premise or the relationship unfolding onstage and, as Ms. Searcy repeated again and again, "justify it."
Improvisational theater evolved in the 1930's at Hull House in Chicago as a way to coax teen-agers into acting. The idea was to take the intimidating sense of structured performance out of the experience. The Hull House method, developed by Viola Spolin, was adopted by her son, Paul Sills, who in 1956 founded the Compass Players, an incubator for such talents as Mike Nichols, Elaine May and Shelley Berman.
Three years later, the Compass Players folded and gave rise to Second City, in which Alan Arkin and Barbara Harris started. Second City then gave rise to similar troupes in other cities, notably the Committee in San Francisco, the Proposition in Boston and the Premise in New York. In the mid-1970's, Second City's branch in Toronto became the home base for a slew of comic talents, including Dan Aykroyd and Bill Murray, and the actors of SCTV.
Mr. Zuckerman came to improvisation in the mid-1970's from the advertising business. Like many of the students who take classes from Chicago City Limits, he wanted to sharpen his ability to pitch an idea to clients. He wound up studying with Second City, and then joined forces with George Todisco, a Second City alumnus, who founded Chicago City Limits in 1977. In 1979, the company went on a national tour that ended in New York City, and the company never left. When Mr. Todisco died in 1982, Mr. Zuckerman took over as director and found a permanent home for the company at the theater on the Upper East Side.
Today, Chicago City Limits performs 52 weeks a year, and it sends a touring company across the country. This fall, as part of its educational program, it will offer 10 workshops. It also appears at corporate gatherings, known as industrials.
 
A Little Laugh, a Little Tune
 The political show, a first for the company, moves back and forth between set pieces and improvisational sketches.
It includes an election appeal, sung plaintively by Mr. Kissin, playing President Bush, to the tune of "Try to Remember":
 Try to remember the Kuwait surrender
I ask each voting girl and fellow
Try to remember I was the Commander
When every ribbon turned to yellow
Try to remember this coming November
Though you're unemployed, eating Spam and Jell-O.
The Need to Comment
Political humor presents both opportunities and pitfalls. "There are so many sound bites out there that you can end up just repeating them, and not commenting on them," said Mr. Telfer, echoing Mr. Zuckerman's cardinal rule, If you're not saying something smart, you're saying something dumb.
Mr. Kissin said, "I don't just want to get up there and repeat the popular view for an easy laugh."
That would be a betrayal of the form, which is built on doing things the hard way, and delivering the unexpected on instant demand.
"There are some far-out stand-ups, like Steven Wright, but in general they take things already in society," said Mr. Kissin. "We can develop ideas that have never been there,"
Mr. Telfer nodded in agreement. "I've always thought of it as like watching a pleasant car crash," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Simpson, left, Judith Searcy and John C. Telfer performing with Chicago City Limits, the improvisational comedy group based in New York City at 351 East 74th Street on the Upper East Side. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CITY LIMITS CHICAGO CITY LIMITS (74%); CHICAGO CITY CAPITOL GROUP (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CITY LIMITS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HUMOR AND WIT THEATER COMPANIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); THEATER (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



271 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
The Capping of Baseball's Popularity

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
IT is not even necessary to get inside the head of the average American kid to know that baseball is facing a humbling, if not apocalyptic, decline in the 21st century. Just look at what these kids are wearing on top of their heads.
Years ago, a kid was introduced to sports with an unmistakable slice of Americana: the baseball cap with the hometown's initials embroidered on the front. This was a first possession that immediately linked the child with the game; forever, in more cases than not. 
 Today's baseball cap has become a symbol of baseball's dilemma, the crowded market, the numerous choices kids have. Today's "baseball cap" has the Chicago Bulls logo on it, or the Charlotte Hornets, or the Los Angeles Raiders. It has the logo of shoe maufacturers and television networks. Black kids across America sport "baseball caps" with an X, be it social statement or mere trend reflecting the coming Spike Lee film on Malcolm X.
Tennis players like Jim Courier and Andre Agassi have incorporated "baseball caps" into their corporate uniform. Will they be called tennis caps in 20 or 30 years?
About as many people -- roughly 20,000 -- paid their way into the U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center for the day session alone yesterday as the combined attendance for ball games Tuesday night in Pittsburgh (7,720) and Montreal (13,704), the teams competing for the National League's Eastern Division pennant. By yesterday afternoon, Madison Square Garden was nearly sold out for a charity pro basketball exhibition, and Michael Jordan was not even on the guest list.
The National Basketball Association playoffs extend deep into June, and a month before the baseball playoffs even begin, there is pro football on television all day Sunday and two nights a week. Twenty-five years ago, in cable-less America, if there was a sporting event on television during the week, it was a baseball game 99 percent of the time.
If baseball could choose its new commissioner, define his role, settle its labor wars and ease its economic pain with a wave of Kirby Puckett's bat, it would have to face the more frightening quandary that it is a game more and more out of step with American society.
"It is a game that still has a tremendous following, but one that is graying," one highly placed executive of a rival sport said yesterday, requesting anonymity.
No one in sports, television or advertising will say that baseball is dying because there has been a cyclical nature in sports and premature deaths of football, basketball and even baseball have previously been announced. But there is no doubt among those who chart these trends that, as the executive put it, "it may be a generalization, but the generalization is that baseball is a game for 50-year-old white men."
Baseball has long been warned that it is alienating America's youth, destroying its future, by refusing to show World Series games in the afternoon. What certainly is an objectionable sellout is also, within the context of Armageddon, a specious argument at best.
To begin with, the late-night World Series applies to one, maybe two, time zones. Generations of kids managed to get hooked on the sport when World Series games were played while they were at school. If putting championship games on late at night tunes kids out, how does one account for the meteoric rise of the N.B.A., which for a decade has begun a large percentage of its championship-round games at 9 P.M. E.S.T.
It has been said that the beauty of the national pastime is its sense of timelessness, but in 1990's America, who has time for that? Baseball may be the family values game, passed down from father to son and daughter, but even the Quayles secretly know this is a country of families with two working parents, or single parents, and kids whose preferences and opinions are predominantly shaped by what they watch on TV.
The MTV Generation gets immediate gratification from the pushing of a computer key or the pressing of a button on remote control. Today's kids read less because reading requires patience and concentration, and so does waiting for the pitcher to cease throwing over to first base or for Buck Showalter to reach the mound and then make up his mind if he's going to make a pitching change.
Play word association, say sports superstar, and today's kids will respond: "Michael Jordan." Jordan is Hammer and Springsteen, and the N.B.A. is the closest thing in sports to a rock concert. Football is a video game played by human gladiators. Baseball is a long afternoon in the sun where the reward is a hot dog and a cap.
The hot dog usually is dry, overpriced and, as stated before, a kid no longer needs baseball to sport a cap.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Courier's baseball cap. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HAVE INC (69%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HATS AND CAPS SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TENNIS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



272 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Eleanor Raynolds, Business Consultant And an Author, 55

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

 BODY:
Eleanor H. Raynolds, an executive search consultant who was honored by the Queen of England for her work for the British-American Chamber of Commerce, died on Tuesday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. She was 55 years old and lived in Stamford.
The cause of her death was a massive staphylococcus infection, said Penny Paul Mooney, an associate at Ward Howell, the executive search firm where she was a partner. She said the cause of the infection has not been determined. 
 Mrs. Raynolds joined Ward Howell in 1985.
 
Founder of Peer Group
 During the early 1980's, she served consecutive terms as president of the British-American Chamber of Commerce, for which she was made a Commander of the British Empire. She was also a founder of the Peer Group, a national association of women in management and the arts, and served as a director of the New York Mission Society, the Women's Economic Round table and Mary Baldwin College.
Together with her husband, John F. Raynolds 3d, former president of Outward Bound USA, she wrote "Beyond Success -- How Volunteer Service Can Help You Begin Making a Life Insead of Just a Living."
Mrs. Raynolds, who trekked in the Himalayas and the Andes and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro, had just returned from a horse-riding trip in Utah when she died.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eleanor H. Raynolds. (Jill Krementz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (76%); ANDES (76%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (71%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: OUTWARD BOUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OUTWARD BOUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (76%); ANDES (76%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (71%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WOMEN (75%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); BACTERIA (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); 

PERSON: RAYNOLDS, ELEANOR; BENNET, JAMES ELEANOR H RAYNOLDS (92%); WARD HOWELL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



273 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Growth Is Harder For Safety-Kleen

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder

 BODY:
WHEN the Safety-Kleen Corporation disclosed on Aug. 5 that it was guilty of large-scale permit violations in its storage of liquid hazardous wastes in Puerto Rico, investors hammered its stock. Shares ended the day down $3, to $27.625, on the Big Board as Wall Street worried about the potential for fines and cleanup costs.
But some analysts immediately figured that investors had overreacted to an isolated problem in a small if highly profitable corner of Safety-Kleen's liquid waste recycling empire. Vishnu Swarup of Prudential Securities, for example, quickly changed his "hold" rating on the company's stock to a "buy." For many, though, the incident simply provided another reason to advise clients to avoid the company, based in Elgin, Ill., unless they were taking a long-term perspective. 
 "It's a unique company, but it's still a little overpriced," said David McDonald, who follows the company for Wessels, Arnold & Henderson in Minneapolis.
Safety-Kleen's shares have traded in a narrow range since last month's tumble, closing at $27.25, up 50 cents, yesterday. News that Puerto Rican authorities want to assess a stiff $3.3 million fine pushed shares down less than $1. The subsequent report that the Environmental Protection Agency had no plans to pursue additional punishments was followed by an equally modest rebound.
Analysts say they are less worried about Safety-Kleen's problems in Puerto Rico than about signs that the economic recovery is faltering. Mr. Swarup, for one, dropped his rating on Safety-Kleen back to "hold" last week along with lowering his ratings for several other economically sensitive companies.
"In a slower growth environment, the only environmental stocks I would recommend in the near term are Waste Management, Browning-Ferris Industries, Wheelabrator Technologies and Mid-American Waste Systems," he said. Each of those companies, he said, is trading near or below the average ratio of price to projected earnings per share in the Standard & Poor's 500, while Safety-Kleen is 30 percent higher than the average.
Safety-Kleen was a Wall Street favorite during much of the 1970's and 1980's when it racked up an impressive string of 18 consecutive years of 20 percent or greater earnings growth. The main engine of the growth was the nationwide expansion of its system for supplying garages and auto service centers with solvents for parts cleaning, collecting spent solvents, and cleaning them for re-use. When the Environmental Protection Agency began regulating wastes produced by dry cleaners in the mid-1980's, Safety-Kleen quickly exploited its experience with supplying and processing fluids for small businesses to build another major profit center.
The pace has slowed sharply though since 1988. In fact, although Donald W. Brinckman, the company's chief executive, had voiced hopes two years ago of getting back on the 20 percent earnings growth track in 1991, last year turned out to be first in which earnings actually declined.
Part of the problem has been heavier-than-expected costs to build up the company's newer businesses, including collection of used motor oil for reprocessing into lubricants and fuels and collection of a wide range of fluids from small industrial and commercial waste generators. Expansion into Europe is also moving more slowly than expected.
In addition, Safety-Kleen has nearly saturated the domestic market for its older businesses, leaving less room for growth during a recession than in past downturns.
Safety-Kleen is not the only waste management company proving to be more sensitive to the health of the economy than in the past. But the slowdown has heightened awareness that Safety-Kleen is expensive in relation to other waste management stocks. And the problems in Puerto Rico have served as a reminder that its growing involvement in hazardous waste management could lead to more regulatory problems.
That said, analysts still laud Safety-Kleen's management and its basic strategic goals. "Anyone holding the stock long-term is going to do well no matter what the economy does," said Rosemarie Morbelli, who follows the company for Ingalls & Snyder. Ms. Morbelli sees the stock rising to about $34 a year from now. Jeffrey A. Berg, who follows environmental stocks for Raymond, James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla., has similar projections and a target of over $40 in 1994.
Signs the company's investments in growth are starting to pay off included income from European operations in the 24 weeks ending June 13 of $60,000, compared with a loss of $912,000 a year ago. And Mr. Brinckman said the growing oil recovery business crossed the threshold into profitability at the end of the second quarter.
"The oil business is a big part of the story for the next few quarters," said Douglas Augenthaler at Oppenheimer & Company, who is among the company's steadfast supporters on Wall Street. He rates Safety-Kleen as the only "buy" among the environmental stocks he follows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (96%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (96%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (96%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (53%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (53%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (53%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (56%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SAFETY-KLEEN CORP SAFETY-KLEEN INC (96%); MID-AMERICAN WASTE SYSTEMS INC (64%); WESSELS ARNOLD & HENDERSON LLP (55%); REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (53%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAFETY-KLEEN CORP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (56%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); SOLVENTS (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); EXECUTIVES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (60%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



274 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Safer Mousetraps, Or Better Ones?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IS Congress, stung by White House charges that it is a doormat for special interests, ready to take a whack at what many consider the toughest of Washington lobbies -- the nation's trial lawyers?
The combatants agree that today's vote on product liability legislation, which would tilt power toward defendants, is the best chance ever to draw blood from the plaintiff bar. If 60 senators vote to shut off debate, the momentum could lead to success next year in the House, where the lawyers have had a lock on the Judiciary Committee. But that is about all they agree on. 
 To manufacturers, the bill is an opportunity to limit a legal extortion racket that raises business costs. To Ralph Nader and Public Citizen, the sometime allies of the trial lawyers, it is a conspiracy to rob ill-treated Davids of their best weapons of redress against corporate Goliaths.
All this frustrates economically sophisticated legal scholars, who generally side with business on liability reform, but see the rules as incentives for balancing safety, innovation and low cost. Robert Litan of the Brookings Institution doubts this bill could much reduce "the bane of the system: manufacturers' uncertainty." And those who would also like to use the law as a safety net in injury cases fear it is a step backward. "This game is not worth the candle," said Jeffrey O'Connell of the University of Virginia Law School.
While the public views product liability as a way to compensate the injured, economists focus on deterrence. The economists' core idea, largely derived from the work of Guido Calabrezi, now dean of the Yale School of Law, is to balance the damage from injuries against the costs of avoiding them -- and then to place the liability on the party that can avoid the accidents most cheaply.
The ideal law would thus induce manufacturers to build step ladders sturdy enough to avoid most accidents, but probably not sturdy enough to bear the weight of a pickup truck during a tire change. And while this ideal law would surely hold a maker responsible for a missing rivet, it would not look kindly on the claims of a circus juggler injured while balancing the ladder on his nose.
The driving force behind product liability reform is the explosion of insurance premiums. But high or rapidly rising costs do not in themselves impress W. Kip Viscusi, the Duke University economist who wrote "Reforming Products Liability" (Harvard University Press, 1991). There would be nothing wrong with the trend, he suggests, if it simply reflected greater product risks or greater success in compensating otherwise unprotected victims for avoidable product defects.
But there is far more to premium inflation than that. Mr. Viscusi is hardly sanguine, for example, about the impact on some industries, notably small aircraft manufacturers. While the accident rate in general aviation has fallen sharply and some 85 percent of the remaining crashes are apparently caused by pilot error, manufacturers are sued in 90 percent of all accidents, and product liability premiums now average a stunning $100,000 per plane.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the small aircraft industry is on the brink of extinction. "There is a strong argument current law creates incentives to make products that are too safe," adds George Priest of the Yale Law School.
Would the changes in the Senate bill make a difference? Pamela Gilbert, the legislative director of Public Citizen's Congress Watch and the chief lobbyist against the bill, thinks it is "hugely important." Mr. Litan is not so sure.
He sees modest benefits in provisions of the bill that would deny claims where the use of alcohol or drugs is the primary cause of an accident, and would eliminate liability for pain and suffering where Federal agencies had licensed drugs or aircraft. And he likes the precedent of a uniform Federal standard that makes it impossible for plaintiff lawyers to shop around for friendly state jurisdictions. The bill would also reduce uncertainty by setting a two-year statute of limitations on claims -- but would only start the clock ticking after the victim had good reason to know the source and extent of the injury.
The proposal does not, however, touch what Mr. Litan thinks is the most important potential reform: setting guidelines for damage awards. Nor does it go an inch toward resolving Mr. O'Connell's concern: the failure to compensate more than a tiny fraction of those who suffer severe injuries. He would like a variation on "no fault" insurance that eliminates the jury as middleman -- something, perhaps, like the 1986 law that uniformly compensates children injured by vaccinations.
From their perspective, then, the bill's value depends on whether it is a first step, or the last. Mr. O'Connell frets that "we are postponing the real fight for a generation." But Victor Schwartz, chief counsel for the bill's proponents, sees it as "the crack in the dam." It would "break the perception that the trial lawyers own Congress," he said, and set the stage for sweeping reform of liability law.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; LAWYERS LAWYERS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); EXTORTION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); TRENDS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



275 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Business Is Pessimistic

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
After rising through the first half of the year, business confidence fell sharply over the summer, the United States Chamber of Commerce said today, as fears mounted that a recovery was withering rapidly.
The chamber's latest Business Confidence Index, measuring the attitudes of 5,515 businessmen and women, shows they turned markedly pessimistic by August after six months of buoyant hope. 
 The index, a bimonthly average of three subindexes measuring the economic outlook, business sales and hiring prospects six months ahead, fell to 58 in August from 64.2 in June, when it was last compiled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



276 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: On First Day For Schools, Many Lessons

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
New York City's schools opened their doors yesterday in a spirit of giddiness and dread, with six brand-new schools and 2,000 eager new teachers confronting a stagnant budget, labor turmoil and an enrollment that has swollen ominously to almost one million.
As in most systems in the New York City area, the city system's first day was as bright with promise as the freshly waxed floors of its 1,000 schools and the highly polished shoes of children like 5-year-old Nicky Garland. Sticking close to her father's legs, she made her debut at Public School 23 in the Bronx, a school that was itself making its debut. 
 There were 17,000 to 20,000 more children than last year, lifting enrollment to around 993,000, the largest since 1978 and a barometer of the city's enduring attractiveness to immigrants. There were also six new buildings, most notably Stuyvesant High School's new home in Battery Park City, which delighted students who had attended the crumbling 80-year-old building on East 15th Street.
But there were already rumbles of tensions that could ruffle this year. The new schools will provide 6,000 seats, but those will scarcely hold a third of the growth in enrollment, so the Board of Education is in the position of a rower trying to keep a leaking boat afloat with a tiny cup.
The 2,192 new teachers will provide an infusion of fresh spirit and novel approaches, but many of the 66,000 teachers are growing increasingly restless about working for almost a year without a contract. The presence of picketing teachers at 100 schools yesterday testified to the unease surging through the system, which could boil over into more disruptive actions sometime this year.
"Morale is extremely low," said Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers, who recently has stepped up her attacks on the Dinkins administration. "When you go into a school year you need a whole lot of positive energy, and it is unconscionable to have them go into a situation where they're starting a second year without a contract."
 
Same Money, More Problems
 While the worst of the budget crisis seems to have passed, the system's $7.2 billion budget is the same as last year's and, because of inflation, that will mean fewer counselors, meager supplies, overcrowded classrooms. Harvey Garner, superintendent of District 18 in eastern Brooklyn, said he has 25 classes that exceed 32 children, which is the Board of Education's technical limit for class size.
While the system is deploying 300 additional guards and squads equipped with weapons scanners at 40 high schools and junior highs, officials are also aware that the tide of violent incidents has been rising.
At Brooklyn's Thomas Jefferson High School, where three students were shot to death and a teacher wounded last winter, students waited on line on the sidewalk to have their pictures taken for new identification cards. The school has also been equipped with electronic doors that are supposed to signal guards when opened by an intruder.
"Me, I feel safer," said Kenisha DeCosta, a 15-year-old junior, of the school's daily weapons scanning. "But some kids don't like it -- those that carry weapons."
At P.S. 23 in the Tremont section of the Bronx, Nicky Garland clung timidly to her father, gazing with a blend of wonder and dread at her brand-new four-story building and at the other children and parents milling on a sun-warmed Bronx sidewalk.
Her father, Cuba Anderson, who had driven in from his bookkeeper's job in Baltimore just to drop his daughter off, shared her nervous anticipation. Like most other parents, he wants his child to "get the best, everything she can, a good education, a good outlook on life, maybe some inspiration."
But, with a school system as uneven as New York City's, he worries as well.
"I hope she doesn't lose the inspiration she already has," Mr. Anderson said.
 
Attention to Curriculum
 The Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, on a visit to P.S. 23, signaled yesterday that beefing up instruction and curriculum will be his top priority this year. He has been preoccupied for more than a year both with issues of safety and with the threat of AIDS, most recently with a new AIDS curriculum that has ignited division on the seven-member Board of Education.
High schools are gradually adopting three-year science and math requirements -- one more year than before -- and beginning to drop general math and science courses in favor of those that require more laboratory work and more abstract skills.
Like most opening days, yesterday was filled with as much confusion and clamor as instruction. Teachers who had not seen one another since June hugged and gossiped while rushing to classes. Parents searched for their children's classrooms. And Danielle Chase, a new immigrant from Barbados attending P.S. 23, woke her mother up at 5:30 in the morning to say she was ready for school.
Outside 335 schools, police officers arrested 179 suspected drug dealers, including five students. At Public School 28, on the southern edge of Washington Heights in Manhattan, 50 or so parents with youngsters in tow crowded the entrance to register their children. Overwhelmed school aides sent many home, telling them to return today.
"I called yesterday, and they had none of her records, and they told us that we had to come this morning," said Sharon Massey, who lost a day of work in her futile effort to register 6-year-old Tamisha.
 
Too Little Space
 P.S. 28's principal, Michele Jones, was beleaguered herself. Working in a district with growing Dominican immigration, she is squeezing 1,500 children into a school built for 300 fewer students. She has put her eight kindergarten classes on split session, with some children starting as early as 7:55 A.M. and others leaving as late as 5 P.M. There are classes in onetime shower rooms and book closets.
And she has one guidance counselor for all 1,500 children in a neighborhood with many troubled and some homeless children.
P.S. 28 is probably one of the only elementary schools in the United States where teachers spent their first day covering "What is a grand jury? What is an indictment?" They had to help their children prepare for the possibility of turmoil on the streets this week because a grand jury has not returned an indictment in a police shooting this summer that set off several days of disturbances.
One fledgling second-grade teacher, Kristen Reid, was almost breathless with eagerness and opening-day nerves as she cheered up the bulletin boards, straightened her desk and unscrewed a balky pencil sharpener. Her biggest jitters were not about the possible disorder on the streets.
"My worst fear is losing control of the kids," she said.
 
A Volunteer
 Ms. Reid, a slender 26-year-old Dartmouth alumna and former banking officer, is a teacher who was trained by the Teach for America program, which seeks out college-graduate volunteers and people in business and trains them.
Like most teachers, she spent much of yesterday establishing rules -- "without order, you can't teach," she said -- and found herself touched by some of the things students told her about themselves.
"These children have such high aspirations," she said. "I have a couple of future doctors, several nurses, a singer and a football player and basketball player who are going to know how to read their multimillion-dollar contracts."
But whatever her worries, she vowed that she was "in education for the long haul."
"If there's any hope for a stronger society," she said, "it lies in education."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julia Reyes was held by her mother as they waited for the opening day school bus to the Ridgeway School in White Plains. (Susan Harris for The New York Times); Children from the Winbrook Apartments in White Plains boarding the bus on the first day of school. (Susan Harris for The New York Times); Taylor Recklow, 18 months old, kissing her older sister, Alyssa, as she started the sixth grade at Public School 234 in Manhattan. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); Clarisa Ortiz, 7 years old, was not in an opening-day-of-school frame of mind at Public School 28 in Washington Heights. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); Matthew Wang, Joan Ai, Rachel Aponde and Eli Alieto joked before starting a new year at Stuyvesant High School in Battery Park City. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; FINANCES; ENROLLMENT TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (63%); SHOOTINGS (61%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



277 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Warning From France On U.S. Wheat Subsidy

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 9

 BODY:
France, which has long defended the European Community's system of generous farm subsidies, warned today that President Bush's recent decision to increase subsidies for American wheat exports posed a new threat to stalled international trade talks.
A French Government spokesman said President Francois Mitterrand had told a weekly Cabinet meeting that he had written to President Bush to complain about the plan to increase American wheat subsidies by $1 billion as a way of competing with European Community grain exports. 
 The spokesman quoted Mr. Mitterrand as saying that the new American subsidy "reflects an attitude that will create disarray in countries which wish to conclude an international trade agreement, and will certainly delay completion of the accord."
Mr. Bush, who has frequently criticized the community's agricultural supports, announced the new American wheat subsidies during a campaign swing through South Dakota and West Texas last week in what was widely interpreted as a bid for the farming vote in November.
 
Other Countries Protest, Too
 The decision has also prompted protests by other leading food exporters participating in the trade liberalization talks known as the Uruguay Round, which have been taking place for six years under the aegis of the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
Although the talks are dealing with an array of trade areas, they have been paralyzed mainly by the continuing disagreement between the United States and the 12-nation European Community over farm supports. Serious bargaining is now not expected to resume until after the American election.
Australia, which has generally sided with the United States in the farming dispute with the community, announced today that it would bring a formal complaint to GATT's Disputes Council over Washington's plan to increase its wheat export subsidies.
In the complaint, which was released in Canberra by the Trade and Overseas Development Minister, John Kerin, Australia accused both the United States and the European Community of "an escalation of anti-competitive behavior outside the GATT system."
 
Critical Stage for Talks
 Mr. Kerin warned that "an escalation of a subsidy war between the United States and the community at this critical stage would put the whole global endeavor of the Uruguay Round at risk." Argentina said it would endorse the Australian complaint at the next GATT Council meeting on Sept. 29.
France's response, though, was considered crucial because, under pressure from a powerful domestic farming lobby, the country has taken the lead in resisting American demands for a gradual dismantling of the community's system of farm supports and export subsidies.
Nonetheless, early this summer, in what it presented to the world as a concession aimed at rescuing the Uruguay Round, the community agreed to reduce subsidized price guarantees for its grain and meat producers. Since then, however, a widely predicted breakthrough in the GATT talks has not occurred.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (74%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (54%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (54%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); GRAIN; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



278 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: As Students Return, Districts Face Similar Ills

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

 BODY:
Youngsters in the New York City region returned to class yesterday, more absorbed by the first day of a new school year than by the widespread absence of teacher contracts and no-frills budgets that reflect sour economic times.
On Long Island, state-mandated austerity budgets in 13 of the 130 school districts mean more children walking to school and fewer superintendents. In Westchester County, programs are being cut and teachers are being offered incentives to retire early in an effort to reduce staff. 
 In Cherry Hill, N.J., teachers returned to school after settling a weeklong strike, but instructors in 143 of New Jersey's 593 school districts are working without contracts.
"I'm sure they're not happy about it, but as far as we know, everybody is going back to work," said Edward J. Gallagher, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association in Trenton, which represents more than 138,000 teachers and other school employees. "Some of the situations are fairly critical, but others are already in the process of mediation or fact-finding."
Of course, younger students left adults to trouble over contracts and budget constraints for the moment.
"To me, school is totally awesome," said Scott MacPherson, a 13-year-old eighth-grader at the Pierrepont School in Rutherford, N.J. "I've been looking forward to it. I have all good teachers, and I'm going to be graduating this year. For me, school is sort of easy."
Bob Cirino, an 11-year-old in Huntington, L.I., made the big leap from elementary to middle school yesterday in a school bus supplied with a bottle of Mylanta and a shot glass up front to ease nervous stomachs.
"We're going to junior high, and it's very different from elementary school," explained Bob. So far, he said, he likes the idea of middle school. "It's fun to switch around and have different teachers. It's a new experience with every teacher."
 
Some Head Starts
 At the Head Start program in Huntington, teachers helped 76 sets of parents and children cross the threshold from toddlerhood to the world of school. "We wiped a lot of tears and gave a lot of hugs and kisses and reassurance," said Ana Carrion, director of the Huntington Head Start program. "We had a great, terrific, hectic day."
Students in much of Connecticut were already into the rhythm of the school year, having started classes well before Labor Day. The schools plan to close for the Jewish holidays of Rosh ha-Shana on Sept. 28 and Yom Kippur, Oct. 7, and Three Kings' Day, a January holiday celebrated by many in the Hispanic community, and so made up the time by opening early.
James A. Connelly, superintendent of the Bridgeport schools, said educators there felt it would benefit the students to return to the classroom early this year. Bridgeport schools were the earliest to open in Connecticut, on Aug. 27.
"Because of the city's financial situation, there weren't many organized summer activities, so we feel our young people need structure and are happy to have it with school opening in late August," Mr. Connelly said.
Westchester County teachers do not face contract negotiations this year, but the atmosphere is strained for future negotiations.
"We have no indication that residents, even of affluent suburbs, are willing to be taxed greatly," said Bruce L. Dennis, superintendent for schools of Bedford, where the teachers' contract expires next June. "Plus, the teachers feel they are fully extended; the teachers themselves are feeling the pinch. So we have a difficult context in which to negotiate -- raised expectations on the part of the teachers and less money on the bargaining table."


GRAPHIC: Facts and figures on schools in the area.

 	 	 	 	 		OPENING DAY	STUDENTS	TEACHERS	TEACHER SALARY RANGE	 	 	 	 	 	New York City	Yesterday	973,000	66,000	$26,375-$52,750	Paterson, N.J.	Today	22,000	1,900	$29,353-$57,358	Norwalk, Conn.	Sept. 1	9,594	850	$30,000-$69,200	New Rochelle, N.Y.	Yesterday	8,100	597	$28,767-$68,996	Elmont (L.I.) Union Free School District	Yesterday	3,230	255	$27,400-$61,556	
Table: "At A Glance: Back to School In and Around New York"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (57%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (56%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (56%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); BUDGETS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (83%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); CITIES (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (66%); YOM KIPPUR (62%); US LABOR DAY (62%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



279 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Bank Profits Hit a Record $7.9 Billion

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Profits at commercial banks soared to a record this spring, pushed up by the lowest deposit rates in generations, the Government said today.
The nation's 11,685 banks earned $7.9 billion in the April-June quarter, breaking the $7.6 billion record set in the first quarter, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said. The industry appears on track to break the annual earnings record of $24.9 billion, set in 1988, the agency said. 
 The F.D.I.C. attributed the second-quarter improvement to a modest shrinkage of bad loans and to the fifth consecutive quarterly increase in the difference between what banks pay on deposits and what they earn on loans and other investments.
"It's the best report we've seen for three years from the banking industry," said Paul Getman, an economist with Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa.
 
Lowest Rates Since '36
 Passbook savings accounts, now around 3 percent, are the lowest since 1936, said Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Bank Rate Monitor in North Palm Beach, Fla. Rates on one-year certificates of deposit have declined by more than six percentage points since April 1989 while interest rates on auto loans have fallen by three percentage points and on unsecured personal loans by about three-quarters of a point.
"You've got to go back to the Great Depression to find deposit rates as low," Mr. Heady said. "The score is banks 1, consumers 0. They said the consumer was going to wind up picking up the tab for the banking mess. Well, the bailout's already begun."
The F.D.I.C. also said the condition of its insurance fund for bank deposits had improved;at the end of June it was negative $5.5 billion, compared with negative $7 billion six months earlier.
Andrew C. Hove Jr., the acting chairman of the F.D.I.C., cautioned that on a cash basis the fund was still paying more for failures than it was collecting in insurance premiums from banks.
 
Troubled Assets Shrink
 The industry's portfolio of troubled assets -- delinquent loans plus repossessed real estate -- edged under $100 billion for the first time in 18 months, falling $3.3 billion, to $99.7 billion.
The agency's problem bank list also declined, to 1,044 institutions with $567.5 billion in assets, from 1,051 with $607.4 billion at the end of March.
The average return on assets -- 0.94 percent -- was the highest since the F.D.I.C. began collecting quarterly income data in 1983. The banks' cushion of capital, at 7.23 percent of assets, was the highest since 1966.
However, the agency cautioned that banks, in taking advantage of lower interest rates, might be setting themselves up for problems later if interest rates were to rise. Instead of making new loans, many banks have been buying long-term Government securities, whose value would fall when rates increased.
Loans outstanding fell by $3.8 billion while securities holdings rose by $18.6 billion during the quarter.
In an accompanying report, the F.D.I.C. said the country's 430 savings banks -- part commercial bank, part savings and loan and mostly in the Northeast -- earned $217 million in the second quarter on top of a $218 million profit in the first three months of the year. They were the first two profitable quarters after 11 consecutive quarters of losses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%); F D I C (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: F D I C (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); 

PERSON: ROBERT K HEADY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



280 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: When Storm Got Tough, the Women Got Tougher

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FOUR CORNERS, La., Sept. 8

 BODY:
Surrounded by sugar cane fields that seem to isolate them like green oceans, the people of this poor overwhelmingly black hamlet have been surviving without electricity, insurance adjustors, the National Guard or Federal aid since Hurricane Andrew struck Louisiana. Yet the women who live here have already started rebuilding.
They speak of it as almost a spiritual task because for the past three and a half years local women, united as the Four Corners Self-Help Housing Committee, have poured their sweat into improving their dilapidated clapboard cabins, learning builders' and bankers' skills to provide their families with solid walls and decent roofs. 
 "People were angry and disgusted to see all they had worked so hard at blown down in one night," said Mary Mathews, co-chairwoman of the committee. "But we know that wind was God talking to us. I think he was saying you have to get closer to each other some more, learn to work with each other better, and then you can build it again nicer than before."
 
A Lifetime of Struggle
 Although men in Four Corners have participated in the committee, they have never been its leaders or its primary source of physical labor. Since the group was formed, women have been its driving force and are the ones who gathered the donations, low-interest bank loans and Federal assistance to refurbish 25 homes and to start building a community center.
Then the hurricane hit, extensively damaging several homes and reducing the community center to rubble. Everywhere there is now the sickly smell of rot and mildew, and everyone seems to speak in weary cadences.
"These people are discouraged to start with," said Lorna Bourg, a co-founder of the Southern Mutual Help Association, a not-for-profit group in nearby New Iberia that organized the construction effort here. "And so who knows how this setback, on top of so many others, is going to affect them.
"Right now they are struggling to save all they've invested in their homes. They are ready to work, but they can't keep the rain out of their bedrooms unless they get shingles and lumber -- truckloads of it. That kind of frustration will test anyone's spirit."
Unlike the residents of South Florida, who flocked to the tropical sun with dreams of prosperity, the 400 residents of Four Corners are mostly descendants of plantation slaves who worked the sugar cane fields for generations only to see their poverty deepen as harvesting machines rendered them obsolete and unemployed.
 
Looking for a Reason
 Far from the attention of the national media in the aftermath of the hurricane, they have fallen back on the resources that have carried them through many trials: the iron will and religious faith that reside primarily in the women of this hamlet.
"When I first saw what happened to our community, I was angry," said Irma Lewis, a widowed cook who is secretary of the self-help committee. "Then I thought that if God spared our lives, it must have been for a reason, and so I got myself to work."
Groups of neighbors went about making emergency repairs where possible, like the plastic sheeting that covers the holes in Mrs. Lewis's roof, and they have begun tackling bigger projects, like the community center.
Sitting down to reflect on the storm and its aftermath, Josephine Roberson, one of the community's matriarchs, said, "I don't have the words for this except to say that we don't have excuses anymore for what we do and don't do." Tears gently rolled down her cheeks. "We know the way now. We have to pull ourselves up. Miss Lorna and the sisters have showed us that is the only way."
 
'Leveraged Self-Help'
 Ms. Bourg, 50 years old, and Sisters Helen Vinton and Anne Catherine Bizalion, who are members of Roman Catholic religious communities, have been working in south-central Louisiana communities like Four Corners for more than 20 years. Through Southern Mutual they have waged lawsuits to improve the wages of farm workers and have battled through state agencies to limit the workers' exposure to pesticides.
Working out of an antebellum house on the outskirts of New Iberia, the three women and a staff of three others have recently been developing projects that aim at what Ms. Bourg called "leveraged self-help."
For example, when the Four Corners community center is completed, it will offer classes in math, science and computer skills. Students will be charged commercial rates for the courses but will pay primarily in labor for the self-help committee. On this basis, businesses in nearby towns will subsidize the effort.
At the moment, however, Ms. Bourg is consumed with the difficulties of making quick repairs to the homes the committee had worked so hard to refurbish. While several religious groups, foundations and individuals have helped with building supplies, she said that over all the relief effort was out of kilter.
"I need roofing nails, gable vents and fascia board," she said with a commanding edge in her voice, "and I need it before all those houses are ruined by water intrusion. But people are still sending food and water and clothing, and there's nowhere to store it anymore we have so much. Money is just slipping through our fingers every time it rains because no one is coordinating anything."
Since the hurricane, Ms. Bourg and her colleagues have been devoting hours to wrestling with Federal and state agencies involved in the relief effort and trying to raise money for supplies. But each still spends part of every day with the people of Four Corners, bringing assurances that there is a world beyond the cane fields and that it is willing to leverage their self-help efforts.
Sitting in her breezeway today, Mrs. Roberson said to Ms. Bourg, "It's so nice that you tarry with us, Miss Lorna, because you help us know there are good people who care about this little place, and that makes me sure we'll put things back better than before and real soon too."
In response, Ms. Bourg offered a gentle correction: "Miss Josephine, this is a marathon now, not a sprint. You and me, we've got a long way to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Four Corners, La., many of the victims of Hurricane Andrew are better prepared to come back from the devastation because they have already spent years trying to improve their modest lives. The task of repairing a dilapidated clapboard cabin is not new to such residents as Irma Lewis, right, a widowed cook, who showed the repair work that lay ahead to Lorna Bourg, a co-founder of the Southern Mutual Help. (Philip Gould for The New York Times)
 
Map of Louisiana showing location of Four Corners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MATHEWS CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FOUR CORNERS (LA) UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; WOMEN; HOUSING TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); SUGAR FARMING (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); WEATHER (77%); WOMEN (77%); RELIGION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO LORNA BOURG (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



281 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Jewish Voters;
Clinton Swipes at Bush For Lack of Jewish Aides

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, seeking the support of Jewish voters, today painted the Bush Administration and the Republican Party as institutions that were virtually devoid of Jews and dominated by fringe religious and right-wing elements hostile to Jewish concerns.
Alluding to the fact that there are virtually no Jews in the upper reaches of the Bush Administration, the Democratic Presidential candidate told the B'nai B'rith International Convention, "I think I ought to give you an administration that looks and feels like America -- a Cabinet, a White House staff, appointments to the judiciary and to other major positions that reach across racial, and religious, and ethnic, and regional lines, an administration committed to the highest standards of excellence." 
 These remarks, made by way of a satellite hookup, underscored the different approach Mr. Clinton adopted in his effort to woo Jewish votes from that employed by President Bush, who addressed the same audience in person on Tuesday. Mr. Bush's appeal to the Jewish audience was a traditional national security approach, focused on how as Commander in Chief he had been ready to use force to confront Israel's enemy Iraq, how he had worked with the former Soviet Union to organize Arab-Israeli peace talks and how he had helped Russian Jews emigrate to Israel.
Mr. Clinton, by contrast, made a domestic-focused appeal to American Jews. He quickly touched all the usual bases about how he would be supportive of Israel and the peace talks but then shifted his focus to the domestic concerns of many Jews -- from a woman's right to choose an abortion to mounting Jewish anxiety about the way in which fundamentalist Christians and right-wing supporters of Patrick J. Buchanan seemed to dominate the Republican convention.
 
Link to Economic Plans
 Mr. Clinton was also probably the first Presidential candidate to make a link between support for Israel and support for his economic plans, by arguing that it will be impossible for any future President to insure Israel's security without a strong American economy able to sustain foreign aid for strategic allies.
Unlike President Bush, Mr. Clinton did not appear in person. Instead, he spoke to the audience from a wall-size television screen through a link to suburban Atlanta, where he was on the campaign trail. Judging from the fact that Mr. Clinton got much more enthusiastic applause in his video appearance than Mr. Bush got in person, it seems that his line of argument resonated with the Jewish audience.
"There is another threat to Israel that has gone long unaddressed," he said. "It is a threat that can weaken Israel militarily, economically and politically. It can hinder our ability to respond to crises that may affect Israel. That threat is the weakening American economy. Without a growing economy, without a strong, stable and secure American middle class, America's commitment to Israel will always be under pressure."
In a dig at President Bush, who on Thursday in Detroit will lay out some new economic ideas packaged by his new chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, Mr. Clinton said, "Our plan will begin on the first day of our inauguration, not the last two months before our effort to secure re-election."
 
Old Hot-Button Arguments
 The nature of Mr. Clinton's appeal to this Jewish audience, and the warm response it received, suggests that in the wake of the cold war some traditional constituencies are going to have to be addressed differently. Indeed, many in the audience agreed that at a time when Israel is engaged in peace talks with all its Arab neighbors, the old hot-button security arguments about standing with Israel just do not ignite Jewish audiences any more. And at a time when unemployment is high in the United States, Jews no longer feel comfortable vigorously fighting the sale of military aircraft to Saudi Arabia, when it could mean thousands of jobs for Americans. Therefore, they said, the appeal to Jewish audiences has to be from a domestic angle.
"I think Clinton did well," said Abraham D. Foxman, executive director of the Anti-Defamation League. "It was interesting, though, how much of the positive applause came in response to statements about domestic issues. The most sustained applause came when he said he was pro-choice on abortion and when he criticized the tone of the Republican convention."
Indeed, by far the most vigorous applause for Mr. Clinton came when he declared: "America is not just a place, it's an idea, an idea cherished and given life by Puritans and Catholics, by Jews and Baptists, by Republicans and Democrats, by women and men, by people of all colors, of all races, of all religions. That means an America where hatred and bigotry are not tolerated, an America where we have a Supreme Court which will respect our Constitution, protect women's right to choose, and protect the rights of all Americans."
Mr. Clinton is using this week to appeal to several other influential religious constituencies, including the National Baptist Convention as well as a predominantly Catholic audience at the University of Notre Dame.
 
On the G.O.P. Convention
 Speaking of the Republican convention, Mr. Clinton certainly told his Jewish listeners what they wanted to hear: "I must say I was also deeply disturbed by the tone of the first two days of the Republican convention in Houston, where it seemed that they were more interested in dividing the American people by claiming that some of us have values and others don't than in uniting us in a common effort to overcome our problems.
"I will never do that," he added. "It is the responsibility of our leaders to counter intolerance, bigotry and hatred. No one knows better than you the danger of bigotry, anti-Semitism and intolerance that is on the rise. As President, my commitment to opposing fear and hate and prejudice will not bend with the prevailing political wind."
Mr. Clinton made no effort to dodge the fact, not popular with this audience, that he had endorsed the sale of 72 F-15 fighter jets to Saudi Arabia, which will provide jobs for thousands of workers at the Missouri-based McDonnell Douglas Corporation.
"Clearly, we must meet our security commitments to our coalition partners in the gulf, but any of those actions must be taken in close consultation with the Government of Israel, and any arms sales must not undermine our commitment to Israel's qualitative edge," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (83%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (83%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; JEWS; ELECTION ISSUES; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



282 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Biggest Sale By America's Top Hatter

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Would-be Harrison Fords have worn his Indiana Jones fedoras. And legions of young people have slipped on all manner of his baseball caps to identify with the cachet of their favorite sports teams. But Irving Joel, who in three decades has built the country's largest designer, manufacturer and marketer of headwear, made by far his biggest sale this week.
Hicks, Muse & Company, a leveraged buyout firm based in New York and Dallas, says it will announce today that it has acquired an 80 percent stake in Hat Brands Inc., Mr. Joel's company, for more than $100 million in cash and debt securities. 
 Hicks, Muse, a fairly conservative firm that prefers to make acquisitions in niche markets, has acquired six companies with a total value of $1.8 billion, including Trident NGL Inc., a producer and marketer of natural gas liquids.
 
An Empire of Hat Brands
 Mr. Joel, who is 64 years old, has built a brand name empire that ranges from the sartorially correct Dobbs and Churchill homburgs to Garth Brooks Stetsons. Despite the recession, his privately held Hat Brands recorded sales of $106 million in its fiscal year that ended on June 30, up from $87 million in 1991.
Before interest and taxes, earnings were just over $18 million in 1992.
"We have looked at the business going back 10 years, and it seems to be relatively immune to business cycles," Thomas O. Hicks, the chairman and chief executive of Hicks, Muse, said in a telephone interview.
Indeed, according to projections from the Headwear Institute of America, a trade group, sales of hats and caps this year will reach $2.5 billion, up from $2.25 billion in 1991.
Much of the success is due to caps, an inexpensive fashion accessory cum statement worn by people of all ages. "Caps are the new T-shirts for the head," said Laura Fahrenthold, director of the Headwear Institute.
As part of the deal, Mr. Joel signed a five-year contract with Hicks, Muse to remain as Hat Brands' chairman and chief executive. He retains a 20 percent equity stake in the company.
"We would not be doing the deal if Irving Joel were not going to stay on," Mr. Hicks said. "He is critical to the success of the business."
 
Talks Began 18 Months Ago
 Mr. Joel and Mr. Hicks began talking about a possible combination 18 months ago, a little more than a year after Mr. Joel had bought the John B. Stetson's hat division, which was bankrupt, for $11 million in cash and the assumption of $3.1 million in debt.
The Stetson purchase solidified Hat Brands' position in the recently trendy Western hat market, a niche Mr. Joel initially tapped in 1985 when he bought the financially ailing Resistol brand from Levi Strauss, and a market that now accounts for 60 percent of Hat Brands' revenue.
Despite the surge in popularity for things country and Western, Mr. Joel says demand for Western hats has remained fairly steady. "We are still selling to the same customer today that we did when we came in," he said. "Someone buying a Garth Brooks hat is adding that to the 10 other Stetsons he already has."
The baseball cap business, on the other hand, is "very good," Mr. Joel said. Indeed, making and marketing baseball caps is where he made his start in the hat business when he founded the AJD Cap Corporation in 1960. Licensing agreements with concerns ranging from Coca-Cola to the National Football League expanded the market considerably. The company, renamed Hat Brands in 1973, was sold to Colgate-Palmolive in 1978.
 
Bought Back From Colgate
 Three years later Mr. Joel bought Hat Brands back from Colgate, and in 1984 he acquired Miller Brothers, a struggling hat manufacturer based in Corsicana, Tex.
Hat Brands, with manufacturing operations in Virginia, Texas and Missouri, has about 1,500 employees.
Looking forward, Mr. Joel said he was in "an acquisitive mode." Referring to Hicks, Muse, he added, "I think they are, too."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTD (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2353 HATS, CAPS, & MILLINERY (84%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HAT BRANDS INC; HICKS MUSE & CO HAT BRANDS INC (84%); HICKS MUSE & CO INC (84%); TRIDENT NGL INC (69%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAT BRANDS INC; HICKS MUSE & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); NATURAL GAS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); TROYAL GARTH 'GARTH' BROOKS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



283 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Hughes Shifts Missile Work To Arizona From California

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 9

 BODY:
The Hughes Aircraft Company said today that it would move its missile production and several thousand jobs, including work on the Tomahawk, Stinger, and Standard missiles, from a number of sites in Southern California to a single plant in Tucson, Ariz.
The move, which had been widely expected, follows Hughes's $450 million acquisition of the General Dynamics Corporation's missile division last month and is intended to consolidate the company's five missile manufacturing plants. Hughes officials said the move will be completed within two years. 
 The combined operations are expected to eliminate duplicated administrative, research and production costs, company officials said. The Tucson plant, which Hughes recently spent $250 million to modernize, cost 10 percent less to operate than those in California, the officials said.
Hughes officials said the missile production lines that the company purchased from General Dynamics would be closed. These lines, which produce radar-evading cruise missiles and shipboard missiles, including the Tomahawk and Standard, are in San Diego, Pomona and Rancho Cucamonga, Calif, and Camden, Ark.
The shift of General Dynamics missile manufacturing to Arizona is the latest blow to California's economy, which is suffering its worst recession since the 1930's, in part because of widespread job losses in the military-contracting industry. In the Los Angeles area alone, employment in the aerospace industry has declined by nearly a third in the last six years, to about 200,000.
Hughes officials said that it was too early to say exactly how many jobs would be moved to Arizona, but defense industry analysts estimated that at least 4,000 jobs would go to Tucson.
Company officials said that 4,000 missile jobs would be eliminated by 1993 because of the consolidation and termination of missile programs. The officials said that some Hughes employees would be relocated to Arizona, but they said the exact number had not been determined.
Hughes currently employs about 14,000 missile workers. Before it acquired the General Dynamics division, which had 7,600 workers, Hughes had 7,000 missile employees. In recent months, the company has reduced that number by 600 employees.
Hughes is a unit of the GM Hughes Electronics Corporation, which is controlled by the General Motors Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (93%); GD (NYSE) (84%); DTV (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO RAYTHEON CO (93%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); DIRECTV (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; TUCSON (ARIZ) UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LAYOFFS (LABOR) AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



284 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Florida Freezes Insurer's Rates in Warning

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Florida's insurance commissioner took the unusual action yesterday of freezing the rates and premiums charged by one of the nation's largest insurance companies, the American International Group.
The commissioner also warned other property casualty insurers operating in the state that regulators would reject any unjustified rate increases sought in the wake of the devastation caused by Hurricane Andrew. 
 The commissioner's action against A.I.G. came as a result of the publication of an internal company memo that described Hurricane Andrew as "an opportunity to get price increases now." The memo was obtained by a consumer group and distributed last week.
The memo, written on the day the hurricane wrought billions of dollars of damage on South Florida, has been cited by consumer groups as evidence that A.I.G., and perhaps other companies, planned to use the hurricane as an excuse to charge unjustifiable rates.
The chairman of the New York-based A.I.G., Maurice R. Greenberg, said the meaning of the memo had been taken out of context. It was written by his son, J. W. Greenberg, an executive vice president, and was sent to the company's top executives.
For years, the senior Mr. Greenberg has argued that premiums charged business customers were inadequate and he said yesterday that the memo simply reiterated the company's longstanding view.
In another announcement yesterday, State Farm, the company with the largest homeowner and private automobile insurance business in Florida, said its losses from Andrew would total $1.2 billion as a result of more than 110,000 claims. William Sirola, a spokesman for the company, said that State Farm had no immediate plans to raise rates.
In yesterday's action against A.I.G., the Florida Insurance Commissioner, Tom Gallagher, said he and Florida's Attorney General, Robert A. Butterworth, would investigate whether the company was actually trying to raise prices excessively and whether it was acting in violation of state antitrust laws.
In any case, a department spokesman added, Mr. Gallagher felt the memo showed a callousness on the part of an executive to the human tragedy taking place in Florida.
"A.I.G. and all of the other companies who sell commercial, property and auto insurance in Florida better get this message now," Mr. Gallagher said. "We won't tolerate any company trying to take advantage of our citizens in the aftermath of this tragedy."
Mr. Gallagher's order froze the rates and premiums set by A.I.G. in the state for 60 days. The commissioner announced he would hold a public hearing to look into the matter. Florida law allows companies to set rates first and then file them with regulators, who can then reject them.
The commissioner also sent a letter today to the chief executives of the 780 companies licensed to sell property and casualty insurance in Florida. In his letter, he warned that his department would reject any efforts by the insurance industry to "capitalize on the misfortune of Hurricane Andrew's victims" through unjustified rate increases.
The memo marks the latest battle in a war between consumer groups and the property casualty industry in states across the nation. Consumer activists, like Robert J. Hunter, the president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization, which first obtained the memo last week, and Ralph Nader, have argued that insurers make more than adequate returns with current prices.
 
Worry About Capital
 The insurance industry and most Wall Street analysts and economists who follow the industry say that at least in certain types of insurance that involve commercial customers, competition in recent years has kept prices so low that in the long run, if prices do not go up it will be hard for the industry to attract capital and remain healthy.
Immediately after Hurricane Andrew hit shore on Aug. 24, the stocks of many major insurers climbed in expectation that the storm damage would deplete the industry's capital and change the psychology of the market place so that property casualty rates would rise. But a majority of analysts now say they doubt whether Andrew alone -- which is expected to result in nearly $8 billion in insured losses in Florida and Louisiana -- will cause a climb in premiums.
The A.I.G. memo said: "The industry cannot absorb the loss and cash hit without increasing rates. We have opportunities from this and everyone must probe with brokers and clients.
"This is an opportunity to get price increases now," the memo continued, "We must be the first and it begins by establishing the psychology with our own people. Please get it moving today."
In a statement issued by A.I.G. yesterday, the company's chairman said the company would dispute the charges of wrongdoing at a public hearing.
"Insurance rates are not set in response to any single event, even a disaster as unprecedented as Hurricane Andrew," the senior Mr. Greenberg said. "They are set by the marketplace. Any informed observer of our industry knows that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; INSURANCE INSURANCE (94%); HURRICANES (92%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); WEATHER (78%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER THOMAS C GALLAGHER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



285 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
G.O.P. Looks at Clinton Draft Record and Spies Willie Horton

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Have the Republicans found their furlough issue for 1992?
Four years ago, the Bush campaign used a Massachusetts prison release program to chip away at Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, asking what kind of man would give weekend passes to convicted murderers like Willie Horton. The past few weeks suggest that the Republicans are testing to see if they can use Gov. Bill Clinton's draft record, and his shifting explanations of it over the years, in a similar fashion in the next 54 days. 
 Then as now, the goal is to find a single issue that crystallizes broader doubts about the character and the values of the opposition. The Republicans then develop the theme to full force through disciplined repetition by their candidate, his campaign aides, an army of surrogates, and, ultimately, television advertising, to the point where it can shatter a political persona.
The drumbeat on the draft is clearly escalating. On Tuesday, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas was on the floor of the Senate, urging Mr. Clinton to "come clean." On Wednesday, Patrick J. Buchanan was on CBS "This Morning," asserting that a man who "dodged the draft" in Vietnam was unfit to be Commander in Chief. Almost every day, new press releases come from the Bush-Quayle headquarters, accusing Mr. Clinton of contradicting himself or covering up the truth about why he did not serve in the military in the Vietnam War.
 
A Fumbling Response
 There is a potential for backlash in this. Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, says his party has spent much of the past few years warning the American people that the Republicans would try to distract them from the ailing economy in this election. "One of the things we've done is get the American people ready for this kind of tactic," Mr. Brown said in an interview today.
Clinton aides also say they relish a confrontation over trustworthiness and candor with a President who promised "no new taxes" and a vibrant economy. And the issue of the Vietnam War itself is not without salience for Vice President Dan Quayle, who fulfilled his military obligation in the Indiana National Guard. Still, the Clinton campaign's handling of the issue has been fumbling and awkward, particularly since a Los Angeles Times article last week prompted new scrutiny of about how he managed to avoid the draft, notably the efforts of a late uncle to lobby on his behalf.
Mr. Clinton gave various responses about when he knew about his uncle's activities, then on Monday angrily lashed out at reporters who pressed him on the issue.
Senior advisers in the Bush campaign see the draft issue, which they all but acknowledge will be used in television advertising, as a rich line of attack in several respects. First and foremost, they say, the issue goes to Mr. Clinton's credibility; they are trying to depict the Democratic nominee as someone who stretches the truth to please the audience of the day, someone so ambitious that he will say anything to win, someone who is, in short, "slick."
 
Character vs. Issues
 "It's not about the draft, it's about the truth, and trustworthiness," said Mary Matalin, deputy manager for the Bush campaign. "It's a very clear illumination of a character flaw." This fits into the overarching concept that Bush strategists have for this campaign: one that revolves not around the economy, or change vs. the status quo, but trust and leadership traits.
Mr. Bush himself implicitly uses the Clinton draft history as a missing ingredient in the Democrat's qualifications to be Commander in Chief: In this week's struggle over which candidate was the most appropriate heir to Harry Truman, Mr. Bush noted that both he and Mr. Truman had served happily and proudly in the military.
Finally, some Bush advisers see Mr. Clinton's lack of military service and the opposition he voiced toward the Vietnam War at the time as an important wedge issue with more conservative voters, like Reagan Democrats and Southerners. Among some voters, the draft could set off the same kind of resonant contrast that the Pledge of Allegiance issue did four years ago, in which the Republicans made claim to the symbols and traditions of nationhood.
 
The Economy as Topic A
 Still, Kathleen Hall Jamieson, an expert in political communication at the University of Pennsylvania, discounts that aspect of the draft issue. "The level of moral ambiguity surrounding that war was sufficiently high that it is difficult for many people to analogize it to the war George Bush served in," she said.
The more serious charge, Ms. Jamieson said, would involve candor and truth-telling, which the Democrats tried this week to turn back on Mr. Bush by questioning his role in the Iran-contra affair.
The broader question, some political experts say, is whether the draft issue can break through the voters' consuming interest in the economy.
"I still think the overriding issue here is the economy and jobs," said Merle Black, an expert on Southern politics at Emory University in Atlanta. But Mr. Black and several other analysts added, "You really don't see the full impact of the draft issue until it goes on television."
In the meantime, the Clinton campaign is trying to return to its message. "Governor Clinton has made his statement, he's answered the questions, it's time to move on to the economy and what the candidates are going to do on issues that matter to real people," said George Stephanopoulos, deputy manager of the Clinton campaign.
But the press releases on the draft keep coming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY H BROWN LTD (66%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; VIETNAM WAR CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ARMIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MURDER (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



286 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Sweden Lifts Interbank Rate To Defend the Falling Krona

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Sweden said today that it was raising a key interbank lending rate from 24 percent to 75 percent to defend the dropping Swedish krona. The news swept the United States dollar up sharply against the German mark.
In late New York trading, the dollar stood at 1.41355 German marks, up from 1.3945 late Tuesday.
Sweden's rate increase helped restore stability to currency markets thrown into upheaval by thesurprise devaluation by Finland of its markka on Tuesday. In the wild trading that followed Finland's move, the dollar had tumbled as investors fled to the mark. The swing to the mark was fueled by fears of a devaluation by other countries with weak currencies pegged to the mark. 
 Sweden's rate increase put intense pressure on speculators who had taken short positions in the Swedish krona in the hope that the Government would be forced to devalue by drastically increasing the cost of financing their investments.
Bengt Dennis, governor of Sweden's central bank, emphasized the Government's determination to defend the currency's exchange rate.
The rate increased by Sweden sets the cost of borrowing between commercial banks and the central bank through short-term money market transactions. Currency traders said the move was reminiscent of those by other European countries in the past to fight devaluation pressures. But economists and traders warned that the high rates could not last long without crippling the Swedish economy.
In other New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 123.13 Japanese yen, up from 122.85 late Tuesday, and the British pound fell to $1.9710, from $2.0040 late Tuesday. In London, the British pound fell to $1.9750, from $2.0037 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (95%); FINLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SWEDEN SWEDEN (95%); FINLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (95%); DEVALUATION (92%); GERMAN MARK (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERBANK LENDING (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



287 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Tax-Exempt Yields Rise; Taxables Decline

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered by money market funds were mixed in the latest week as the supply of municipal debt remained heavy and the money markets reflected the cautious easing of interest rates by the Federal Reserve on Friday.
The average yield on tax-exempt funds rose, while the yield on taxable funds dropped. 
 According to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, assets of tax-exempt money funds were up $849.2 million for the week, to a total $95.9 billion. The average number of days left to maturity of securities held in fund portfolios increased by two, to 67, the longest in six years.
 
Tax-Exempt Yields Rise
 The seven-day average compounded yield rose seven basis points, to 2.39 percent, while the simple yield rose seven basis points, to 2.36 percent. Over a 30-day period, the average compounded and simple yields both are up three basis points, to 2.25 percent and 2.23 percent, respectively.
Not assuming state taxes, the taxable equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield is 3.32 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, while the equivalent for investors in the 31 percent tax bracket is 3.46 percent.
In its weekly survey of tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said Dreyfus Basic Municipal was the best-performing fund, with a return of 3.25 percent.
Mary Sue Hoban, a spokeswoman for IBC/Donoghue's, noted that the large supply of new municipal securities pushed short-term tax-exempt yields higher. In addition, she said, short-term yields were coming under increased pressure to compete with higher long-term yields.
 
Taxable Assets Gain
 Meanwhile, yields in taxable money market funds fell off sharply as total assets grew by $9.5 billion, to $499.4 billion. As in the previous two weeks, most of the cash flow came from institutional investors fleeing the unstable markets. Institutional funds saw their assets grow by $8.6 billion, for a total of $181.7 billion.
"We were surprised at how fast yields dropped in taxables since it was only last Friday that the Fed eased," Ms. Hoban said. "Normally, it takes time for market developments to show themselves in the yields.
"But a closer look revealed that 29 percent of the taxable portfolio included securities with less than seven days left to maturity, while the tax-exempt portfolio showed 50 percent with less than seven days. That explained the rapid turnover.
The average seven-day compounded yield for taxable money market fund was off four basis points, to 3.01 percent, while the simple yield dipped below 3 percent, to 2.96 percent, off five basis points. For a 30-day average, the compounded and simple yields were both down three basis points, to 3.06 percent and 3.01 percent, respectively.
 
Top-Performing Funds
 Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios fell by one, to 63, just under its highest mark in a decade.
The Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, maintained its grip as the top performer among large general-purpose funds with a yield of 3.82 percent. But including funds with assets of less than $100 million that invest only in Government securities, the United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services Advisors in San Antonio, was the top performer, with a yield of 4.10 percent.
By comparison, the average bank money market account slipped two basis points this week, to yield 2.98 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Sept. 9, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

New York	2.86	3.06	Los Angeles	3.12	3.29	Chicago	2.98	3.18	San Francisco	3.06	3.23	Philadelphia	3.13	3.17	Detroit	3.15	3.26	Boston	2.92	3.20	Houston	2.79	3.10	Dallas	2.73	3.12	Washington	3.04	3.37	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.98	3.20	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MARY SUE HOBAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



288 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: New Jersey Visit;
Bush Finds Fertile Ground for Attacking Governors

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, N.J., Sept. 9

 BODY:
President Bush today opened a second front in his campaign against what he called tax-and-spend liberals when he attacked Gov. Bill Clinton by way of Gov. Jim Florio.
"I don't have to tell New Jersey about that old saxophone song sounding the familiar tax-and-spend theme," Mr. Bush told more than 2,000 people who had waited three hours in the parking lot of V.F.W. Post 2179 to hear his speech. 
 "You know what a liberal Governor and a liberal legislature can do to wreck an economy," he said. "Florio, in cahoots with the Democratic Legislature, acted as if every day was April 15."
 
New Jersey Viewed as Crucial

 The sharp attack on Mr. Florio and his $2.8 billion tax program that was enacted in 1990 delighted the leaders of Mr. Bush's New Jersey campaign. They said they have been telling the President's advisers that there was still some anger left in the voter backlash against the Democratic Governor's tax program that nearly unseated Senator Bill Bradley two years ago and last November changed the New Jersey Legislature to Republican control from Democratic.
"New Jersey is crucial," said Bill Palatucci, the executive director of the President's New Jersey campaign. "It will be tough to win a national campaign as a Republican without New Jersey.
"We had been urging him to go after Florio. And we're glad that he finally agreed to do it."
Mr. Bush's visit today was his third since the Democratic National Convention in July, and he is expected to make more before Election Day.
With his own re-election campaign coming up next year, the last thing Mr. Florio needs is another referendum on his program this year.
Mr. Bush had no new initiatives to announce in his 15-minute address, but he reminded the crowd that when he campaigned in New Jersey four years ago he promised to end ocean dumping of sewage sludge off the coast and claimed today that he had honored that pledge.
 
Friendly Turf for Bush
 "The last sludge barge left New York Harbor last June," the President said. "Now when you look off shore, you see sailboats, not sludge barges."
 Mr. Bush promised now to pressure New York City to complete construction of sewage treatment plants to further improve water quality offshore.
For Mr. Bush it was a return to friendly surroundings. Mayor Rosemary Peters said sprawling Middletown Township, Monmouth County's largest community, had strongly supported the Reagan-Bush ticket with majorities of 56 percent in the 1980 election and 62 percent in 1984, and gave Mr. Bush 67 percent of its vote in 1988.
The township is largely a bedroom community for commuters who travel to jobs in northern New Jersey and New York City by train or on the Garden State Parkway. It has blue- and white-collar neighborhoods, small businesses and a string of shopping malls along Routes 35 and 36, two of the principal arteries to the state's northern shore resorts and to Gateway National Park on Sandy Hook.
Mr. Palatucci said the President was trailing Mr. Clinton in Monmouth County, long considered vital to a Republican victory in the state, by 10 to 13 points. But he added that Mr. Bush appeared to be narrowing the gap and was behind by about the same amount at this point in the campaign four years ago.
The area residents and high school students who came to hear the President could muster only brief bursts of applause for Mr. Bush's attacks on Mr. Clinton as someone looking to the past for solutions to economic problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; TRAVEL, PERSONAL LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (72%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (66%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (66%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); SUBURBS (62%); TRAINS (60%); WATER QUALITY (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



289 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
A DECISION IN FATAL SHOOTING
A Manhattan grand jury has cleared a New York City police officer in the fatal shooting of a drug suspect whose death in July touched off violent demonstrations in Washington Heights, according to a top official in the Manhattan District Attorney's office. But the District Attorney has declined to announce the grand jury's decision while city officials and community groups put into motion elaborate efforts to stave off new violence. A1.
 
A FOSTER-CARE SUCCESS STORY
When the 5-year-old foster child first walked into the psychotherapist's office, he did not know how to play. As the months passed, he learned to express himself, but his games were violent and bizarre. But gradually, the therapist said, his fury diminished and he began to create rather than to destroy. Soon he will be adopted by a Queens family, a happy ending in a foster-care system that too often fails to treat troubled children who have been abused by their parents and separated from all that is familiar to them. A1. 

NEW RATING RULES PROPOSED FOR BANKS
In a fresh effort to pressure lenders to provide more services in poor areas, the New York State Banking Department has proposed new rules that it said would strengthen a controversial law that ranks lenders on the basis of their social responsibility. Although the regulations would be statewide, they would have the greatest impact on efforts to increase banking services in poor neighborhoods in New York City. B3.
 
School to be scoured for lead. B3.
 
REGION
 
A GUILTY PLEA IN FRAUD CASE
John McNamara, the Long Island car dealer and philanthropist, has pleaded guilty to fraud, admitting that he had bilked General Motors in a $6 billion loan scheme and that he had used some of the money to bribe officials at all levels in the Town of Brookhaven to win approvals for his vast real-estate developments. As part of a plea agreement, Mr. McNamara, who faces 20 years in prison and more than $800 million in fines, said he would assist in prosecuting the officials. In exchange, the Government agreed to move for a more lenient sentence and, if Mr. McNamara should request, to help him enter the Federal witness protection program. A1.
 
THE FERRARO FACTOR
Just five days before the New York Democratic primary for the Senate, the strategies of all the candidates revolve around Geraldine A. Ferraro. For her rivals, the question is how to beat her. For Ms. Ferraro, the trick is to hold onto every ounce of support that has made her the leader in the polls so far. News analysis, B4.
 
LINKING CLINTON AND FLORIO
Campaigning in New Jersey, President Bush attacked Bill Clinton by way of Jim Florio. "You know what a liberal governor and a liberal legislature can do to wreck an economy," he said. "Florio, in cahoots with the Democratic Legislature, acted as if every day was April 15." A21.
 
A LOST FAMILY IS FOUND
Because of a twist of archeological fate and a minor mistake on an old Connecticut map, a tiny and long forgotten farm family cemetery -- 28 bodies representing generations of a family called the Waltons -- suddenly re-emerged into the 20th century. B7.
 
A new rest stop on the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway actually makes some people glad they stopped. Sloatsburg Journal, B7.

Chronicle B8

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Manhattan Condo Prices" tracks to the 2d quarter of this year the estimated price of a condominium between 50th and 86th streets that sold for $100,000 in 1982. (Source: Heller Equities, from a Wharton economic model)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FOSTER CARE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); GUILTY PLEAS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LAWYERS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (75%); WITNESSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); REAL ESTATE (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (63%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



290 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
G.M.'s Bold Move Into Credit Cards

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The credit card introduced yesterday by the General Motors Corporation brandishes a long list of features that make it, some industry analysts say, the most important new national card since A.T.& T. introduced its Universal card in March 1990.
Good news for consumers, bad news for competitors. The features are a sign that consumers stand to benefit from the growing competition among banks and nonbanks for trustworthy credit risks. G.M.'s card, whose primary mission is to help the auto maker sell cars by building brand loyalty through offering rebates, is likely to take a toll on some smaller players and continue the consolidation under way among credit card companies. In the last five years, the market share of the top 10 card issuers has increased to 51.5 percent from 37 percent. 
 Analysts say the G.M. card will also weigh heavily on the beleaguered card operations of American Express, whose premium charge cards and Optima credit card are struggling.
"American Express is a loser any time any big player comes in offers a card nationally with no fee," said Robert B. McKinley, president of RAM Research in Frederick, Md.
 
Borrowing Ideas From Rivals
 The G.M. Mastercard borrows pages from the playbooks of several rivals and goes beyond the card that the GE Capital Corporation announced last week -- a card with discount coupons and rebates from 24 large companies, as well as discounts on General Electric products.
"It's a whole new face of credit card marketing," said David Robertson, president of The Nilson Report, an industry newsletter in Santa Monica, Calif.
The G.M. card has no annual fee and an adjustable rate of 10.4 percentage points above the prime rate. Currently, that makes its interest rate 16.4 percent, more than 1.5 percentage points below the industry average and the same as the rate on the A.T.& T. card.
Customers can spend their way to rebates of up to $3,500 on the purchase or lease contract of any new G.M. car or truck except the Saturn models. The 5 percent rebate on most purchases, to a maximum of $500 a year, is cumulative over seven years. If customers transfer the balance on their current cards to G.M., they will receive 5 percent of that amount as a rebate.
In addition, G.M. has joined forces with Avis, the Marriott hotel chain and MCI Communications. Charges with those companies give card users an additional 5 percent rebate -- a $100 car rental charge with Avis would credit users with a total of $10 toward a rebate on a G.M. vehicle. In addition, there is no cap on these rebates, and more such partners may be named at a later date, G.M. executives said yesterday.
The G.M. Mastercard will be administered by Household Credit Services, a unit of Household International Inc. of Prospect Heights, Ill., that has grown rapidly in recent years to become the ninth largest issuer of credit cards. Last September, Household helped the Ameritech Corporation issue a Mastercard, making it the first Baby Bell to offer a credit card that can be used for consumer purchases and to pay for telephone calls.
G.M. executives declined to discuss its financial relationship with Household and its other partners. They did say that Household would administer the card, own the receivables and decide who would get a card.
General Motors said it was mailing packets to 30 million households.
The card is an expensive bet for G.M.; analysts have estimated that it will spend roughly $60 million on the advertising campaign that describes a card "that turns buying power into horsepower, plastic into steel."
Wooing new credit card customers costs, on average, more than $50 an account, analysts said. Household and other partners will undoubtedly shoulder some of those costs.
 
Auto Market Share
 G.M. could use any help the card provides. In the last eight months, the auto maker, as well as Honda, Toyota and Nissan, have lost market share in the United States to Ford and Chrysler. Through the first eight months of the year, G.M. had 34.9 percent of the market, down from 35.4 percent a year earlier and down sharply from historic levels of about 45 percent in the early 1980's.
Some analysts project that G.M. will gain two million to three million card holders in the next year or two. Whether those customers will prove profitable for Household and G.M. is unclear.
Some industry analysts say the lack of annual fee may attract many poor credit risks. And many people with high incomes who buy new cars frequently also do not carry balances on their card, essentially using them as free credit.
"G.M. and Household are walking into a shark's mouth," said William C. Dunkleberg, dean of Temple University's School of Business and Management and a consultant to the credit card industry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Michael Losh, vice president of General Motors, with a replica of the auto maker's new credit card. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); 

CITY: FREDERICK, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (60%); HOUSEHOLD CREDIT SERVICES (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES REBATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); NEW CAR MODELS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BRANDING (70%); BRAND EQUITY (70%); HOTEL CHAINS (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



291 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Banking Dept. Proposes Changes in Rating Rules

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
In a fresh effort to pressure lenders to provide more loans and services in poor areas, the New York State Banking Department yesterday proposed new rules that it said would strengthen a controversial law that ranks lenders on the basis of their social responsibility.
Although the strengthened law, the Community Reinvestment Act, would affect regulations statewide, the changes -- intended to encourage public review and add incentives for banks -- would have the greatest impact on banking services in poor neighborhoods in New York City. 
 New York's Banking Board, which oversees the Banking Department, has asked for comments on the proposals from banks, citizens' groups and others and said it would not rule on the changes until early 1993. The board can enact the proposed rules without legislative approval.
If enacted, yesterday's proposals would mean that for the first time, the ratings given to the lenders -- from a high of 1 for outstanding to a low of 4 for noncompliance -- would be routinely announced by the state, fostering what officials said would be heightened competition among bankers to serve the poor.
Banks seek to avoid low ratings because they can be cited by citizens' groups or regulators in challenges to mergers and other changes that require governmental approval.
The ratings are public information, but they currently can be obtained only by formal written request under the Freedom of Information Act. State officials said yesterday that few such requests had been made.
 
A Push for More
 While the state's proposals are a clear endorsement of monitoring banking practices in poor communities, the Banking Department said current laws did not go far enough.
"We believe that the reach of C.R.A. has not kept pace," said Derrick D. Cephas, the New York State Superintendent of Banks.
In another change to the Community Reinvestment Act, enacted in 1979, the state's senior banking regulators said they would specify what types of services that banks must perform to enhance their ratings. Although the list may grow, they said, it is all but certain to include lending for low-income housing construction, offering low-cost checking accounts and other services to poor people and increasing lending to small business.
The state's proposals can be expected to provoke a political squall among some bankers and advocates of free-market economic principles, who have protested the various forms of the Community Reinvestment Act enacted by the Federal Government and 13 states, including Connecticut, since the late 1970's. New Jersey has not adopted such regulations.
The Federal law applies to federally chartered or insured banks and thrifts, of which there are 335 in New York State.
Critics charge that the Community Reinvestment Act has at best created cumbersome new reporting requirements and at worst required banks to make risky investments.
"It is simply wrong-headed policy," said Lawrence J. White, a professor of economics at New York University's Stern School of Business, who maintained the Federal and state banking regulations "require or aggressively nudge banks into subsidizing parts of the community."
The proposals "would only aggravate the problem," he added.
But community organizers, low-income housing developersand advocates for the poor applauded the proposals, which Mr. Cephas announced at a news conference in Manhattan.
"The Community Reinvestment Act has clearly served a need in this community, and these changes sound like they would make it better," said Christopher Kui, of Asian American Equalities, a group based in Chinatown and the Lower East Side that develops low-income housing and helps small businesses.
One of the group's recent successes was finding $200,000 in bank loans for a small home-health-care enterprise in Chinatown, Mr. Kui said. "The law makes banks accountable, and we have hundreds of small businesses here that need help," he said.
Among the proposed changes is one intended to insulate lenders that receive the highest rating from citizen protests. Any lender that receives a 1 rating for three consecutive years would qualify.
 
One Mixed Review
 All banks are vulnerable to challenges from citizen groups when they seek to make changes that require government approval, like mergers and acquisitions. But the challenges have been most common when the banks have low ratings.
A citizens' group that has aggressively challenged bank policies, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, known as Acorn, gave the state's proposal a mixed review.
John Kest, the chief New York city organizer for the group, said that although most elements of the plan "seem like an improvement," the provision giving the best-rated lenders special protection could undermine the act. "You just can't take away the right to challenge banks and expect the law to have any meaning," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANKING DEPARTMENT (NYS) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BANKING BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKING DEPARTMENT (NYS) BANKING BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



292 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Storm's Staggering Load on Banks

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla. Sept. 9

 BODY:
The rebuilding of the southern Florida economy after Hurricane Andrew may require billions of dollars more in financing than the amount covered by insurance and even the new aid proposed by President Bush.
The President's request on Monday for $7.6 billion to assist the storm victims in both Florida and Louisiana will help. Some Federal funds will help hard-hit businesses and homeowners, but much of that money is earmarked for repairing streets, schools, government buildings and an Air Force base here. 
 The banks are being left to shoulder a huge load in financing the recovery in the private sector, and it is clear that this is a load they may be unable to carry.
For one thing, the banks have problems of their own. The collateral on many of their loans collapsed, literally, in the storm. And thousands of households and businesses that have long been dependable customers suddenly lost the ability on Aug. 24 to make loan payments.
The role of the government, bankers and economists say, must be to find ways to make it more attractive for banks and investors to funnel private capital into hurricane-damaged areas by reducing the risks for lenders and investors.
"The challenge of financing the restoration and recovery work will be enormous," said Stephen Morrell, a former banker who is an economist at Barry University in Miami Shores. "The dimensions of the problem really haven't been thought through yet, and a solution is going to require some innovative financing mechanisms on the part of both government and the banks."
One suggestion is for the government to bundle Hurricane Andrew recovery loans and sell them through a government-backed agency, as happens now with home mortgages. Another is to set up a state development bank to provide seed capital for the recovery effort. The Bush package is seen as a step in the right direction but one that is not going to fill the financing gap.
Homestead offers a clear picture of the economic crisis. Just about everyone here lost heavily, a roof, a house, a business. But Kerry L. Herndon, one of the area's biggest flower growers, lost much more than most.
Mr. Herndon, like thousands of other victims of the hurricane, has vowed to make a comeback. And his story helps illustrate the financial fallout from the nation's most costly natural disaster -- the sudden loss of wealth, the sizable uninsured losses, the shortage of funds and the impact on local jobs -- and what a formidable task it will be to find money for a genuine recovery.
The 36-year-old entrepreneur had four million orchids and other flowers growing profitably under 800,000 square feet of high-tech greenhouse space, structures of steel and aluminum where the plants were fed collected rainwater and tended by robots. Today, all that is gone. His modern greenhouses are nothing more than a huge mound of shiny metal, like some child's oversized erector set smashed by a bully.
Mr. Herndon had assumed he had ample insurance coverage, about $6 million worth. His estimate of his actual losses: $16 million. "I don't think anyone could have anticipated this level of devastation," he said.
 
Loss Estimates Vary
 The total loss estimates from Hurricane Andrew have ranged up to $30 billion. But a more detailed reckoning has come from the economics department of Barnett Banks Inc., Florida's largest bank, which estimated the hurricane damage at $17.6 billion. The insurance industry announced last week that it planned to pay out $7.3 billion in claims.
An additional $1.2 billion is public property and Homestead Air Force Base, and President Bush pledges the Federal Government will pay for those. Other Federal programs will provide additional help, such as reimbursements to homeowners for uninsured losses of up to $11,500 for each household and Small Business Administration loans of up to $500,000.
Still, with the experience of Hurricane Hugo in 1989 as their guide, business authorities say there will be substantial losses that are not going to be covered either by private or government programs.
In announcing a $10 million state program to dispense emergency loans to small businesses, Gov. Lawton Chiles said Friday that Florida must "learn a lesson from Hugo" by making sure badly needed funds get to distressed businesses and families.
 
Some Deals Offered
 Most banks here are helping by deferring interest payments for two months on mortgages and commercial loans for borrowers whose properties were damaged. And some banks, like Barnett Banks and the First Union National Bank, have said they will lend money to hurricane victims at below market rates, shaving a percent or two off consumer loans and off commercial loans. These programs, of course, are acts of corporate benevolence to help hard-hit communities revive combined with commercial self-interest in trying to hold on to existing customers and gain market share.
But how much disaster-related lending can the banks do? For the banks there will be both a loss of income from stretched-out repayment terms and write-offs on loans that can no longer be repaid. Banks say it is too early to estimate their own losses.
And while bankers talk of being flexible and working with borrowers on a case-by-case basis, they also stress that they must keep their shareholders as well as hurricane-hit customers in mind when making loans. "You're not going to change the banks' risk standards to make these loans," said Carlos Migoya, president of First Union National Bank of Florida in Miami.
Charles Umberger, executive vice president of the Barnett Bank of South Florida, agreed. "Banks are senior lenders, not suppliers of high-risk venture capital," he said. "To finance the larger rebuilding effort, it has to be a partnership with a large role played by the government."
The means the government might use to encourage added lending to hurricane victims is uncertain. But the goal would be for the government to assume some of the risk on hurricane-related lending so that banks or investors would be more willing to supply financing. Mr. Morrell, the Barry University economist, suggests the bundling of Andrew-recovery loans as securities and marketing them through a government-backed agency.
Mr. Herndon's business, Kerry's Bromeliad Nursery Inc., employs 80 people and last year generated revenues of $5.5 million selling flowers to discounters and supermarket chains including Kmart, Home Depot, Winn-Dixie and Kroger.
Next year, he expected to double sales and increase his payroll to 120 people, since he had expanded his automated greenhouses. But the hurricane destroyed the greenhouses and the flowers that were to have resulted in a banner 1993.
 
Workers Being Paid
 Unlike many smaller companies, Mr. Herndon has kept on paying his workers for the last two weeks. He plans to pay them next week, too. "But after that we're going to have to talk," he said. Mr. Herndon has a $3 million commercial mortgage loan with Barnett. "That giant pile of crumpled metal back there is Barnett's collateral," he said, gesturing toward what used to be his business.
Perhaps, but the bank is pretty well covered in Mr. Herndon's case. His insurance policy has Barnett designated as a "loss payee," meaning the $6 million insurance check will be made out to Kerry's Bromeliad Nursery and Barnett Bank. For his part, the $6 million insurance coverage means Mr. Herndon could, he noted, "pay off the bank loan and walk away with a check for $3 million in my pocket."
But Mr. Herndon says he won't walk away. He still has his ambitious growth plans, including exporting worldwide. Yet his dreams at best will be delayed for lack of funds. Barnett has agreed to renegotiate the terms of his loan, a workout, in bankers' parlance, as they would with Brazil or Donald Trump. Mr. Herndon wants a moratorium on principal payments for one year and a reduction in the interest rate he pays from the prime rate plus a percentage point to the prime rate. He's still negotiating with Barnett.
Had Barnett decided to call the loan, taking its $3 million, Mr. Herndon figured he would be down to 20 employees. Now, he hopes to hold on to as many as possible. "But I'm going to have to spend my personal savings to meet the payroll," he noted.
 
Familiar With Banking
 He would like additional lending, up to $5 million in new loans to bring the business back more quickly, but he says that it is unrealistic to expect that from a private bank on its own. His chief financial officer, Nancy Harter, is a former lending officer at Citibank in Miami, as well as Mr. Herndon's wife. So he is familiar with banking and today's interest rate environment. He notes that at prime plus 1 percent, he is paying Barnett 7 percent on his loan at a time when 30-year Treasury bonds yield more than 7 percent.
'It's lousy, but there's not much reason to lend to me, except that they do want to hold on to their long-term customers," Mr. Herndon said. "To get this business back to strength quickly, what I would really like is a low-interest, government-backed loan of some type."
Some help could be on the way. Senior officials from the Department of Agriculture met with Mr. Herndon and other growers in Homestead on Monday and said that part of the President's aid request to Congress was to reinstate a recently ended program of government-subsidized disaster loans for farmers.
Mr. Herndon seems skeptical. "We're hopeful, but we'll wait and see," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Southern Florida's economy may require billions more to recover than the $7.6 billion President Bush has requested to rebuild homes and businesses damaged by Hurricane Andrew. Kerry L. Herndon surveyed the wreckage of his nursery in Homestead, Fla., where he grew orchids and bromeliads. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HURRICANE ANDREW; INSURANCE HURRICANES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); WEATHER (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (67%); SPACECRAFT (60%); ARMED FORCES (56%); AIR FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



293 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
House and Senate negotiators agreed on a measure that would require local cable systems to negotiate licenses from local television stations to retransmit their signals. The compromise set the stage for a bill reregulating the cable industry. [Page D1.] 
 The House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, dealt a blow to prospects for the North American Free Trade Agreement by saying that the pact's labor and environmental provisions were so badly flawed that it should be renegotiated. [D1.]
Rebuilding South Florida after Hurricane Andrew may require billions of dollars more than insurance and Federal aid can provide, putting a burden on banks that they may not be able to carry. [D1.]
 
Companies
Florida's insurance commissioner froze the rates charged by American International and warned other insurers about unjustified rate increases after the disclosure of an A.I.G. memo calling Hurricane Andrew "an opportunity to get price increases." [D1.]
Northwest and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines asked for Federal permission to become the first two large international carriers to combine their operations and, in effect, operate as one airline with route systems stretching around the world. [D1.]
General Motors' new credit card has a long list of features that some industry analysts say makes it the most important new national card since A.T.& T.'s Universal card. [D5.]
Fujitsu provided details of its first parallel supercomputer, saying it would be the world's fastest. [D5.]
Hughes Aircraft will move its missile production and several thousand jobs from Southern California to Arizona. [D6.]
 
International
France warned that President Bush's recent decision to increase subsidies for American wheat exports posed a new threat to stalled international trade talks. [D2.]
The troubled Lloyd's of London insurance market named a former Thomas Cook travel executive as its new chief. [D6.]
China said it was prepared to retaliate with punitive tariffs if the United States restricted Chinese imports. [A15.]
 
Markets
The American Stock Exchange is said to be investigating ties between one of its board members and the top shareholder in one of the companies on its emerging issues market. [D1.]
The stock market staged a mild afternoon upturn, recouping some of the ground it lost in the previous day's broad decline. The Dow closed up 10.80 points, to 3,271.39. [D10.]
Treasury bond prices drifted lower with little news to affect trading. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond rose to 7.24 percent, from 7.21 percent Tuesday. [D17.]
Sweden said it was raising a key interbank lending rate from 24 percent to 75 percent to defend the dropping Swedish krona. The news swept the dollar up sharply against the German mark. [D18.]
Platinum gave back most of its early gains after traders concluded that violence in South Africa earlier this week was not a great threat to supplies. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Is Congress ready to take a whack at what many consider the toughest of Washington lobbies -- the nation's trial lawyers? The Senate votes today on product liability legislation, which would tilt power toward defendants. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Saatchi & Saatchi and Euro RSCG, two of the biggest advertising companies, made changes at some of their largest and best-known agencies. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]
Safety-Kleen's problem with possible environmental regulation fines in Puerto Rico provides analysts with another reason to advise clients to avoid the company unless they are taking a very long-term view. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (58%); 6702 (TSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%); GM (NYSE) (55%); DTV (NASDAQ) (54%); TCG (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (65%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (65%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (65%); FUJITSU LTD (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); DIRECTV (54%); THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (64%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); GERMAN MARK (50%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



294 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Is Criticized By Gephardt

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Dealing a blow to Congressional prospects for the North American Free Trade Agreement, the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, said today that the labor and environmental provisions were so badly flawed that the pact should be renegotiated.
Mr. Gephardt, one of the most influential House Democrats on trade issues, ran for President in 1988 on a platform that emphasized restrictions on imports from Japan. His last-moment support last year was crucial to the narrow approval of the measure giving President Bush the authority to negotiate the agreement among the United States, Mexico and Canada. Mexico and Canada do not want to renegotiate the pact. 
 Worried that support for the pact could hurt them among constituents anxious about job losses to Mexico, not even the Republicans at a Senate Finance Committee meeting on Tuesday and at a House Ways and Means Committee hearing today made any commitments to back it.
But neither house will vote on the issue until next year, making it easy to criticize now and to support later. "Almost everybody who is carping to you now will vote for it," predicted Representative Bill Thomas, a California Republican on the trade subcommittee.
Mr. Gephardt's call for renegotiation followed a chorus of complaints from Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, and Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who heads the Ways and Means Committee, about White House attacks on Gov. Bill Clinton for not taking a position on the pact. Mr. Bentsen and Mr. Rostenkowski said the election-year attacks had threatened the bipartisan consensus for free trade and the accord's prospects for eventual passage.
 
Protecting Their Candidate
 The complaints reflected Congressional sensitivity to Mr. Clinton's possible vulnerability on the issue. "They're lining up to provide some cover for their Presidential candidate," said Thomas E. Mann, the director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
But George C. Shipley, a Democratic consultant based in Austin, Tex., said he doubted that the issue would affect Mr. Clinton much at the polls because not enough voters were paying close attention to it.
Mr. Gephardt had said, before the agreement was finished, that shortcomings in it probably could be repaired by the legislation needed to put its provisions into American law. Today, he attributed his shift in position to his reading of the text of the agreement and conversations with voters.
President Bush announced the agreement on Aug. 12, and released its voluminous text in two installments on Friday and Tuesday. All drafts had been classified on the ground that public debate might limit the flexibility of the American negotiating team during the 14 months of talks. Though members of Congress were allowed to look at the drafts, many staff members lacked the necessary security clearances.
 
Areas That Raise Objections
 Speaking at a conference here sponsored by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and four other environmental, labor and consumer groups, Mr. Gephardt said the agreement failed to address specific pollution and workers' rights issues in Mexico and should have done so.
Asked afterward whether Mr. Clinton should renegotiate the pact if it is left until next year, Mr. Gephardt replied, "A lot of it can be done through the implementing legislation -- I think some of it has to be done through renegotiation."
Mr. Gephardt's criticisms drew a sharp response from the Administration. "The Nafta will generate more jobs, provide more environmental protection and make America more competitive than has any other trade agreement, include trade agreements for which Mr. Gephardt has voted in the past," said Kathleen A. Lydon, the White House's chief spokeswoman on trade issues.
Mr. Gephardt said the agreement should include worker protection rules for Mexico and a special commission to issue bonds for environmental cleanup along the border. He called, as he had in July, for a tax on trade to help pay for the cleanup and to pay for retraining workers who lose their jobs to Mexico.
This tax should be "far lower than the current levy" on imports from Mexico, which averages about 4 percent, he said in the speech. But later he said when talking to reporters, "It may be 2 percent; it may be 3 percent."
 
Opposition to Border Tax
 In her testimony today before the Ways and Means Committee, Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, dismissed the idea of a border tax. "The whole purpose of the North American Free Trade Agreement is to lower barriers, not to raise taxes, and to do so would defeat the very purpose of the agreement," she said.
Mrs. Hills also identified for the first time those sectors of the economy that she thought would be most vulnerable to import competition from Mexico as a result of the free trade pact: glass and some farm products during certain seasons. The American household glass and fruit and vegetable industries are labor-intensive and are already having trouble in competing with imports from Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); APPROVALS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); 

PERSON: GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



295 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Waterford Journal;
The Future of Irish Crystal Is Anything but Clear

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WATERFORD, Ireland

 BODY:
In the year 853, Danish Vikings sailed up the river here and, after some battling with with the local Celts, established a port. Some 1,100 years later, after World War II, an Irish entrepreneur imported a band of German, Czech and Italian craftsmen to revive the local glassmaking business, which became Waterford Crystal and quickly spread its glistering elegance to millions of homes, mostly in America, and bringing prosperity.
The crystal boom, which began in the mid-1950's and started to shatter five years ago, also gave a sense of identity to the 38,000 people of this clean medieval city, eight miles up the River Suir from the Irish Sea. 
 Now many people here, especially the workers at the crystal plant, fear that in the current phase of the town's history, the good times are gone forever and that the company itself, part of the Waterford Wedgwood Corporation, may eventually disappear, with production shifted to Germany and elsewhere on the continent. Company officials, mostly Irishmen, wince at this vision.
"We don't have a secret agenda to move production out of Waterford," the company chairman, E. Patrick Galvin, said in an interview. "That is not our intention, not our strategy. We want to produce classic Waterford crystal in Waterford at a reasonable profit margin."
 
Layoffs and Pay Cuts
 To do this, Mr. Galvin has proposed that the work force at the plant, which was 3,200 five years ago and is now 1,900, be reduced by another 500 jobs by the end of the year and that those remaining accept cuts of up to 30 percent in wages and benefits.
Mr. Galvin said the company has lost more than $150 million in the last five years, including another $6 millon in the first half of this year, and he wants 500 workers to volunteer for severance. If they do not, he said, there will be forced layoffs. He said the comany might not survive a strike like the 14-week stoppage in 1990.
The workers and their union have not formally threatened a strike, but say privately that if Waterford refuses to improve the severance plan, there could be one. The workers are also upset that the company has already begun to produce crystal in Germany and Slovenia, and that in the coming years about 15 percent of the company's products will be made abroad.
The job losses at Waterford Crystal contribute to a local unemployment rate of about 25 percent, 5 points higher than the national average, which is one of the highest in Europe. And the probability of even higher unemployment reflects the national situation, where the Government of Prime Minister Albert Reynolds has been looking to the European Community and private industry for money to ease what is called the jobs crisis here.
"Waterford glass manufactured elsewhere would not be Waterford glass," Mr. Reynolds said on a visit here in July. "I want to see Waterford Crystal remain here in Waterford."
 
Who's to Blame
 His words echoed those of both workers and company officials. Leaders of the Amalgamated Transport & General Workers Union blame mismanagement for much of the company's troubles. Company officials blame excessive wage and early retirement settlements made five years ago by a previous management team, and the drop in recent years of the value of the dollar, as 70 percent of Waterford's sales are in the American market.
"It's crazy to think of putting 500 people out, creating jobs in Germany to produce things to sell in the States," said Walter Cullen, the head of the local union.
 "That is the logic of what the company is doing," he said. "They are prepared to risk the brand name, that the consumer will not care whether the glass is made in Waterford."
He said he agreed with the company statement that only a small percentage of the crystal was now produced abroad, and that the lines produced on the continent were new ones, not competitive with the higher-priced lines made in Waterford. But he argued that the company had never responded to a union offer to try to work out a plan to have the new lines produced here at a profit. The company acknowledges this.
Also at issue is whether the crystal produced elsewhere is as good as that made here, and whether the new lines, partcularly the lower-priced Marquis stemware, deserves the Waterford name. A Marquis goblet costs $29.50, about $20 less than a classic Waterford.
The difference is that every line cut in the design of a Lismore is done by hand, by a man at a diamond cutting wheel. The crystal produced abroad is shaped and cut by machines, then finished off by a worker.
John Stenson, a 40-year-old master cutter, held up a centerpiece bowl he was cutting. He pointed to a slight variation in a row of triangular points.
"When its made by hand, the points are not perfect," he said. "A machine will make perfect points. By hand, each piece is individual, with little differences."
He was more optimistic the plant won't close than some of the other cutters and blowers, who are being asked to take cuts that would bring their pay down to a maximum of $700 a week, from about $900. Less skilled workers earn closer to the national industrial average of $400 a week.
Tony Walsh, a cutter who is active in the union, blamed the company, not the high wages, for the problems. He said Waterford, suffering now because the dollar has been losing value, should have long ago exploited the European market.
"There are a lot of rich people in Europe," he said. "With proper marketing I don't see why the world's leading brand name can't be found on the boulevards of Paris, Bonn, Milan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: To the workers in Waterford, Ireland, the name their home has come to represent in glassmaking should harden it from the shifting economic currents in Europe. Ray Lanigan, above, works at his craft, in which each piece is given the imperfections and subtleties of a product made by hand. (James F. Clarity/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WTFU (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3262 VITREOUS CHINA TABLE & KITCHEN ARTICLES (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); DENMARK (92%); GERMANY (91%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); SLOVENIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: WATERFORD CRYSTAL INC; WATERFORD WEDGWOOD PLC WWRD HOLDINGS LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WATERFORD CRYSTAL INC; WATERFORD WEDGWOOD PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WATERFORD (IRELAND) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); DENMARK (92%); GERMANY (91%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); SLOVENIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: GLASSWARE; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); GLASS MFG (77%); HISTORY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



296 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: For Assembly: Manhattan, Queens

 BODY:
Because of redistricting, New York voters will face an unusually large number of Democratic primary contests for the State Assembly on Tuesday. Here are our recommendations for Manhattan and Queens races in which the primary winner is all but guaranteed election in November.
 
 MANHATTAN.
72d District. John Brian Murtaugh is a diligent and dedicated lawmaker who has earned a seventh term. He understands the ethnic complexities of his district and can stand up to pressure. Despite opposition from the Catholic Church and anti-abortion activists, he opposed a bill that would have impeded young women's access to abortion by requiring parental notification. He is opposed by William Alicea, a former housing official, who has electoral appeal, and Julio Hernandez, recently with the Mayor's office of Latino Affairs. But neither offers a compelling reason to unseat Mr. Murtaugh. 
 68th District. With 17 years in office, Angelo Del Toro is in a position to use his seniority to help his impoverished district but has not been notably effective. His pattern of favoring relatives and allies with state grants is disturbing. Either Nelson Antonio Denis or Bethsaida Colon-Diaz is preferable. Mr. Denis, a former editorial writer for El Diario/La Prensa, offers valid criticism of the Legislature and is well versed in education and economic development. Ms. Colon-Diaz, a former official with the city's Community Development Agency, has an impressive background in community and social work. In a close call, we recommend Mr. Denis.
70th District. In this crowded race, we enthusiastically endorse Peggy Shepard, a former state housing official who has a feel for the district and a command of issues. Helen Daniels, a social worker active in her neighborhood, and Keith Wright, a lawyer, offer great promise as future candidates.
 
 QUEENS.
31st District. This race pits two appealing candidates, Gregory Meeks and Hulbert James. Mr. James, a former Dinkins administration official and longtime political activist, understands the political system and could be an effective legislator. But Mr. Meeks, a worker's compensation board official, has deeper roots in the district and reflects a better feel for its needs, and we prefer him.
33d District. Barbara Clark, seeking her fourth Assembly term, faces a challenge from Anna Thompson, head of a home care agency. As an advocate for her community, Ms. Clark can be so stubborn she has alienated other officials. We endorse Ms. Thompson, whose knowledge of health care issues and concern for her district could make her an effective lawmaker.
34th District. Ivan Lafayette, a legislator since 1977, is unusually serious about his job, serves full time and runs a solid community office. We recommend him over Michael Crowley, an insurance executive active in community affairs.
36th District. Denis Butler has compiled an unremarkable record during 16 years in office, but his opponent, the Democratic District leader Archie Mavromatis, does not make a convincing case for change. We prefer Mr. Butler, but with criticism for his offensive attempt to throw his opponent off the ballot.
38th District. The incumbent, Anthony Seminerio, has grown grouchy and rude in office, to the point of heckling Gov. Mario Cuomo. He cares for his constituents, but that does not excuse his willingness to obstruct legislation of citywide importance to achieve narrow local goals. We recommend his opponent, Frank Sansivieri Jr., a public school teacher with a strong background in civic activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY STATE ASSEMBLY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY STATE ASSEMBLY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; EDITORIALS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); MAYORS (72%); ABORTION (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); 

PERSON: MURTAUGH, JOHN BRIAN; DENIS, NELSON ANTONIO; COLON-DIAZ, BETHSAIDA; DEL TORO, ANGELO (ASSEMBLYMAN); SHEPARD, PEGGY; MEEKS, GREGORY ; THOMPSON, ANNA; LAFAYETTE, IVAN C (ASSEMBLYMAN); BUTLER, DENIS (ASSEMBLYMAN); SANSIVIERI, FRANK JR GREGORY W MEEKS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



297 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: The President and Topic A

 BODY:
The economy remains overwhelmingly the most important issue in the election campaign, yet President Bush has ducked it. Today he has the chance -- perhaps his last -- to propose a credible plan for recovery.
So far, Mr. Bush has minimized the current stagnation, urging the public to look ahead to the recovery that he asserts is just around the corner. Or he has tried to change the subject and focus on Congressional gridlock and family values. Or he has proposed mere tinkering, as though the $6 trillion American economy can be electrified by, for instance, subsidizing a handful of first-time home buyers. 
 Even when he proposed something splashy, like a cap on entitlement programs to lower the deficit, his credibility suffered. He conveniently omitted telling voters whose benefits would be cut and whose taxes would be raised.
Yet voters keep telling pollsters with ringing clarity that they want to hear straight talk about the economy.
Today the President promises to come out of hiding, with a major address to the Detroit Economic Club and a network television appearance, the first substantive speeches since James Baker took command of the campaign. Straight talk now could repair Mr. Bush's credibility.
The first necessity today is for him finally to come clean about the problem, fessing up to what voters know painfully well: The economy is barely creeping along with no meaningful sign of recovery. Since the Republican Convention, the news has been unrelievedly bleak. Employment is down, income is down and more discouraged workers are dropping out of the labor force.
The President's next task will be to say what he plans to do about unemployment. Even a conservative Republican can acknowledge a duty to fight recession. And the large Federal deficit is no excuse not to try: temporary tax cuts and spending hikes could do wonders for the unemployed without much changing the long-term debt picture.
Third, voters look to Mr. Bush for a coherent long-term plan for restoring growth. He often bristles at the suggestion, arguing that he has sent a bevy of proposals to Capitol Hill to no avail.
And so he has. But they are slight. For example, he seems to think the economic sun rises or falls depending on whether Congress cuts the tax on capital gains. Yet his chief economic adviser admits that such a cut would pack no more wallop than would a drop in interest rates by a few tenths of one percentage point.
A conservative President need not betray his values in order to present a coherent plan. Mr. Bush could state clearly that once the economy starts growing, Washington should do no more than get out of the way. That would be the time to cut taxes, deregulate and watch entrepreneurial initiative take off.
Mr. Bush could thus offer a clear contrast with Bill Clinton's vastly different vision: widespread public investments in infrastructure, education and worker training, especially for the disadvantaged. The only contrast now is between a candidate who recognizes that the economy is Topic A and one who doesn't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); FAMILY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



298 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
A Smoking Gun?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Did the Bush Administration, eager to build up Saddam Hussein, interfere in the Atlanta U.S. Attorney's investigation of Iraq's corruption of our Department of Agriculture? Has the Attorney General committed an impeachable offense in refusing to permit a special prosecutor to investigate obstruction of justice, as Congress requested?
A memo dated Oct. 26, 1989, suggests the answer to both questions is yes. 
 The damning memo is to Secretary of State James Baker III from John Kelly, head of State's Near East Bureau, and Abraham Sofaer, Legal Counsel. The issue for decision was whether to push for $1 billion of U.S. grain credits to Iraq despite our growing knowledge that Iraqi officials were breaking our laws.
"Earlier this month, the President signed NSD-26," Mr. Baker was reminded, "mandating pursuit of improved economic and political ties with Iraq." Although Treasury and the Fed opposed granting further credits to near-bankrupt Iraq, "Our ability to influence Iraqi policies . . . will be heavily influenced by the outcome of the Commodity Credit Corporation negotiations."
I think the idea was to pervert the grain credits program, which was set up to help U.S. farmers, and turn it into a backdoor foreign aid source, contrary to the will of Congress.
How to accomplish this, as it was becoming known that Saddam was stealing us blind? ". . . to wall off an FY90 CCC program from the BNL [Lavoro] investigation" (italics now and later mine), goes the recommendation to Secretary Baker, get an Iraqi promise to "cooperate" in an investigation and to say it won't corruptly handle the new money. In the blank space next to "approve" are the initials "JAB III."
To do that, however, State's legal counsel -- denominated "L" in the memo -- first had to find out if any Iraqi officials were likely to be prosecuted as criminals. "L has spoken with US Department of Agriculture and independently with the US Attorney's office in Atlanta."
Iraqgate buffs will recall the objections raised in Congress to evidence that the White House Legal Counsel had at least twice called the assistant U.S. Attorney in Atlanta. In rejecting any suggestion that repeated expressions of interest from the White House constituted undue interference in a criminal investigation, Attorney General Barr's apologia stated that "the words used in the calls did not include any attempt to influence or interfere," therefore "no interference occurred."
Mr. Bush's lawyer claimed he was "seeking only publicly available information." If that were true, a Nexis search could have been made at the touch of a computer button.
Now we have new evidence of Baker's State Department lawyer calling the Atlanta prosecutor a month before. Did the Attorney General, with the vast resources of the F.B.I., discover this in his "investigation"? No; the Criminal Division's assignment, in my view, was to find no evidence.
The real purpose of this improper call from Baker's lawyer was to discover prosecutorial intent. This can be deduced from the "talking points" attached to the Oct. 26 memo, advising Baker how to persuade Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter to forget his fiduciary responsibility and get with the backdoor aid program.
"Our information about the investigation," goes this script for Baker's call, "indicates that the prosecutor does not now intend to indict Iraqi officials." How's that for knowing prosecutorial intent -- and for using the inside information corruptly?
Secretary Yeutter's roundheeled reply is recorded in Baker's handwriting on that same point sheet: "10/31 C[layton] Y[eutter]: 'I think we're seeing it the same way your guys are. I'll get into it.' JAB III."
Former counsel Abe Sofaer says he did not make the Atlanta call and is unfamiliar with the memo, but thinks State has a written procedure for contacting prosecutors. (He's wrong.) State's lawyers, Alan Kreczko and Ted Borek, have dived under desks. Justice has never interviewed them and says it knows of no procedures to limit calls to U.S. Attorneys: no holds Barred.
House Judiciary chairman Jack Brooks is wimping out in the face of this stonewalling. Banking chairman Henry Gonzalez is preparing to answer the A.G.'s defiance with a bill of impeachment.
If elected, would Bill Clinton favor a special Iraqgate prosecutor? Answer: "Yes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT CORP GROUP LTD (55%); CREDIT CORP BRUNEI BHD (55%); CREDIT CORP SINGAPORE LTD (55%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (73%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (73%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GRAIN; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BARR, WILLIAM P (ATTY GEN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



299 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Embargoed Haiti's Suffering Increases

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Haiti's Lies" (Op-Ed, Aug. 13) by Amy Wilentz is dead wrong in its plea to keep the Organization of American States embargo to restore President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power. The embargo has failed to do so after nearly 10 months, yet innocent people are suffering and dying.
For the last 20 years, I have made an average of three trips to Haiti every year. During my three visits in the last five months, I have never seen such misery and hopelessness. Because of the embargo, people of all ages, including my own father, in need of special antibiotics die without getting them. Women with episiotomies, unable to be sutured following childbirth, heal slowly and painfully. 
 Hospitals no longer have syringes, antibiotics, vaccines, sheets or gowns for patients. Major surgical procedures are done without general anesthesia. Medical services provided by missions supported by American organizations are also curtailed because of the high cost of air transport. People who would have survived in Haiti a year ago are dying today. The embargo is quite simply genocide.
The United States has also reduced food assistance to Haiti. Students who normally get their only meal in school are not being fed. Many have stopped going to school. A school employee called the home of a student who had missed a test only to discover that he had died of starvation. That is the work of the embargo.
The poor Haitians do not need "spiritual sustenance." Rather, they need food assistance. They do not need "the illusion that the international community supports their quest for democracy." Rather, they need action and aid from the international community in their search for democracy.
Why continue a policy that has not accomplished its purpose, but is killing the people it should be protecting? Can the lives of these children, pregnant women and innocent people be spared?
 
RODRIGUE MORTEL, M.D.
Hershey, Pa., Aug. 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); FOOD CHARITIES (87%); MALNUTRITION (78%); STARVATION (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); CHILDREN (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (75%); ANTIBIOTICS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); VACCINES (70%); TRENDS (69%); GENOCIDE (66%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WILENTZ, AMY JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



300 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Many Questions Remain on Trump's Shortened West Side Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Riverside South: Still Questions" (editorial, Aug. 31) discusses the scaled-down plans of Donald Trump for 74.6 acres of Manhattan's Hudson River waterfront, now dubbed Riverside South. This issue concerns not only West Siders, but also environmentalists and all who support development appropriate to a community.
Mr. Trump's guarantees to Ruth Messinger, Manhattan Borough President, that his project will not add volume to the North River Sewage Treatment plant is based on the fact that his project can never be hooked up to the North River plant. A small, proposed project on Central Park West and 106th Street has been denied a sewer hook-up. 
 You are right when you state that the plans for retrofitting and building a sewage treatment plant on the site are unrealistic. Wouldn't an on-site sewage plant have to be built before the first building had even been completed? Who would pay for it? Who would pay for its maintenance? Who would buy an expensive apartment in such close proximity to a sewage treatment plant?
On the matter of the 72d Street subway station on the IRT's Seventh Avenue line, the previous developer, in 1982, committed more than $30 million to the improvement of both the 72d Street and 66th Street stations. This commitment is still in effect in a restrictive guarantee that runs with the land.
Today, the subway improvement money that is owed to the city by the developer of this site comes to about $45 million. The $5 million agreed to by Mr. Trump and Ms. Messinger is thus quite a bargain for Mr. Trump.
Whatever happened to the promised $7 million ($10 million now) for the Oak Point rail connector in the Bronx? In 1982, the developer and New York City understood the importance of this critical facility for linking our rail freight system directly to the rest of the United States. Why has it been left out?
The moving of the West Side Highway is central to Mr. Trump's Riverside South project. A park, without the elevated highway, was the raison d'etre for the support by civic groups of the outrageous density of the project. Representative Ted Weiss has said he believes that it will be very difficult to justify asking for Federal money to move the highway.
I remember that in 1982, all of our elected West Side officials, including Ms. Messinger, opposed the density of the smaller Lincoln West project on the site. There is no economic justification for a density of 9 million square feet for development (8.3, plus 700,000 for the 3,500 parking spaces).
Thank you again for raising these important issues, which the developer has still failed to come to grips with, although they have been raised by Community Boards 7, 4 and 9, the Coalition for a Livable West Side and certain members of the City Planning Commission.
 
ELLY STONE
New York, Sept. 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WEST SIDE GRAIN SALES CORP (85%); WEST SIDE LAND INC (85%); WEST SIDE UNLIMITED CORP (85%); WEST SIDE LEASING INC (85%); WEST SIDE TRACTOR SALES INC (85%); WEST SIDE SALVAGE INC (85%); WEST SIDE DISTRIBUTORS LTD (85%); WEST SIDE INVESTORS INC (85%); WEST SIDE TRANSPORT INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WEST SIDE (NYC) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); RAIL FREIGHT (62%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (57%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD DONALD TRUMP (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



301 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
SALMAN RUSHDIE, the British author who has lived in hiding since 1989, said yesterday at the University of Colorado in Boulder that he intends to be increasingly visible, in the hopes that public pressure on the Iranian Government will lead it to lift the death threat under which he lives. The Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini called for his assassination after Mr. Rushdie's book "The Satanic Verses" was deemed to be blasphemous according to Islam.
Referring to trips he made to Spain, Denmark and Norway in June, Mr. Rushdie said during an interview at the university that "the political climate in these countries on this issue improved 1,000 percent." 
 "The political value of it is very great," he said, referring to his visits. "There is a slight increase in the risk, but that is something one has to live with."
His public appearance this week is part of his third trip to this country in less than a year. Mr. Rushdie conducted a news conference and gave individual interviews at the university before speaking to 3,000 people at the start of a two-week-long literary symposium.
"One thing that is clear to me now is, what is most dangerous is silence," he said, vowing to continue forays into public view to demonstrate that "terrorism by remote control" does not work.
He said he believed the time was growing increasingly ripe for changes in the Iranian policy toward him: "They are facing food riots in the streets every week. The country is desperate for the reconstruction of its economy. It's anxious to play more of a geopolitical role.
"The thing that is most in my favor is the fact that the country is such a wreck," he said. "Because currently it's so anxious to get massive agreements in trade and aid with the free world, there is leverage."
The passage of time had put his plight in a logjam, he said "but when you move the right log, it moves very fast. We just have to make sure we find the right log."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SATANIC VERSES, THE (BOOK); CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%); COLORADO, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ISLAM; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES INTERVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); ASSASSINATION (77%); RELIGION (76%); RIOTS (64%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: RUSHDIE, SALMAN; BROZAN, NADINE SALMAN AHMED RUSHDIE (94%); AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



302 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Washington State Refinances Debt

 BODY:
A $203.4 million refunding by the State of Washington was tentatively priced yesterday for sale to the public.
Underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company said the offering of general obligation tax-exempt debt was being done to raise cash to refund previously issued bonds sold when interest rates were higher. 
 The maximum yield on the new issue at pricing was 6 percent for bonds due in 2009 and 2010, with the remaining serial bonds yielding from 2.75 percent in 1993 to 4.65 percent in 1997, 5.45 percent in 2002 and 5.95 percent in 2008.
Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Investors Service all rated the financing AA.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (STATE) UNITED STATES (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); BOND ISSUES (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1992



303 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: New York City Firefighters Given 4.5% Raise in 30-Month Accord

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
In a settlement that Dinkins administration officials said they hoped would set a pattern for coming labor negotiations, City Hall and the firefighters union agreed on a tentative contract yesterday that calls for a 4.5 percent raise.
The increase is roughly the same as what the police and other city workers won in 1990. But since it runs for 30 months, or twice as long as most of New York City's other union contracts, some city officials described it as the equivalent of two 15-month deals, the second without a raise. 
 Negotiations with the unions have been a constant problem for the Dinkins administration, which was widely criticized in 1990 for agreeing to a 5.8 percent raise for teachers despite the deepening recession. Some city officials indicated yesterday that they would press the other municipal unions to accept terms similar to what the firefighters agreed to in their new contracts.
"No way," said Stanley Hill, the executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
 
Retroactive to 1990
 The firefighers' contract, which is retroactive to September 1990 and runs through Dec. 31, 1992, calls for a 3.5 percent wage increase as of July 1, 1990, and a 1 percent increase as of July 1, 1991. The city had budgeted 1.5 percent for increases each year.
The firefighters' pension fund will provide a chunk of the remainder -- 0.85 percent. Concessions will pay for the rest, with the firefighters agreeing to eliminate one day of personal leave a year, cut the number of vacation days for new firefighters and work one additional 15-hour tour a year.
Mayor David N. Dinkins called the tentative contract "a fair settlement for the membership of the U.F.A. in light of the city's fiscal difficulties."
John Mills, a lawyer for the firefighters union, the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said the negotiators had agreed to the contract because "they wanted the same salary as the P.B.A.," referring to the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the police union. But he also said the bargainers were pleased that they had worked out a way to provide better retirement benefits for firefighters who joined the Fire Department after 1973, ending 19 years of strain over benefits slashed during the city's fiscal crisis.
James F. Hanley, the City Labor Commissioner, said that under the new contract the city and the union would figure out how much new firefighters would have to pay to be eligible for the more generous pre-1973 benefits, including greater protection for accidental death or disability.
Providing such benefits for firefighters hired since 1973 would require the Legislature's approval, but Mr. Hanley said the city would support such a change, "provided each employee pays the additional cost of that benefit." He said such arrangements had been worked out with sanitation and correction workers.
 
A Shorter Workweek
 The union said the firefighters' new contract also provided a framework for a return to a 40-hour workweek. Mr. Mills said the firefighters have been on a 42-hour-a-week schedule since 1989.
At City Hall, some officials said they hoped terms of the accord with the firefighters would set the tone for bargaining with other city unions, which have been working without contracts for more than a year. "It's 30 months versus 12 for the same dollars," said a top City Hall official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
But Barry Feinstein, the head of Local 237 of the teamsters union, said city officials had given him a different answer when he asked if there was a tie between the firefighters' contracts and the city's bargaining position with the other unions.
"The answer I was told is there is no linkage between the firefighters' contract and anything that would affect our coalition," he said. "Our point of view is nobody is able in our negotiating structure to say to us, 'Now this coalition is impacted by a contract that has just been reached on behalf of firefighters.' "
The teachers union, whose one-year, 5.8 percent wage and benefit package set off criticism of Mr. Dinkins's labor policy in 1990, is now in mediation.
The tentative settlement with the firefighters "doesn't have any effect on us," said Sandra Feldman, the president of the teachers union, the United Federation of Teachers. Its contract expired last year; the city's 65,000 teachers returned to school on Wednesday with the city saying that if the teachers were to get the raises they want, they would have to finance them through concessions, including longer school days and shorter teacher preparation periods.
Like virtually all of the city's unionized employees, the firefighters have been working under an expired contract. Months of on-again, off-again talks have produced little progress with the other unions.
The firefighters' new deal will run out at the end of the year, only a matter of weeks after it takes effect if, as expected, it is ratified by the members. The union will then face a new round of negotiations with the city in a year in which Mr. Dinkins is expected to run for re-election.
Taking a hard-line approach could be a costly political move for the Mayor and could lead to a work slowdown by angry unions, which have the power to offer big political contributions, volunteers and votes. In recent months labor leaders, whose support in 1989 was essential to his victory, have said they were reconsidering whether to endorse him next year.
The unions are under pressure from members to get raises, a fact reflected in the firefighters' settlement yesterday. As it did with other unions, the city provided the same amount for raises, 1.5 percent a year.
One city official said that to get a 4.5 percent increase, the length of the contract had to be stretched out. Because of the way the firefighters' pension money is invested, the official said, the fund could not come up with as much cash at the beginning of the contract as, for example, the teachers' pension fund did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FIREFIGHTERS ASSOCIATION (59%); PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CITIES (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BARRON, JAMES DAVID N DINKINS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



304 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: New York's Senate Race;
FERRARO AND FOES CLASH OVER ETHICS

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
The contenders for the Democratic Senate nomination from New York clashed sharply over ethics last night, as Geraldine A. Ferraro's main rivals repeatedly questioned her integrity, and she responded by vigorously challenging their own.
The exchanges -- in the candidates' first major televised debate -- came just hours after Ms. Ferraro said that repeated questions about her personal finances by State Attorney General Robert Abrams and City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman had cost her some support. She released two years of previously undisclosed tax returns in an effort to head off the questions. 
 In a freewheeling, hourlong discussion broadcast live from Manhattan and made available to stations around the state, the three candidates, and a fourth, the Rev. Al Sharpton, differed little on a dozen issues, agreeing on the need for more recycling, calling for the appointment of more minority officials in the criminal-justice system, more investment in housing and more money for AIDS, and expressing wariness about any tax increases for the middle class. [Excerpts, page B6].
Their most pronounced differences centered on the death penalty, which Ms. Ferraro alone supports, and health care, with Ms. Ferraro favoring less sweeping changes in the existing insurance system than her opponents.
The debate, the candidates' first joint appearance since mid-May, took place on a pivotal day, as the Marist College Institute of Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., said its surveys of voters this week had shown the race tightening markedly, with Ms. Ferraro retaining just a slight edge over Mr. Abrams four days before the primary.
Ms. Holtzman released what her campaign said would be its final television commercial, in which she starkly painted Ms. Ferraro as too conservative for New York's Democrats. The ad questions Ms. Ferraro's votes in Congress a decade ago in support of voluntary school prayer and tax exemptions for church-run schools that practiced discrimination.
Ms. Ferraro released a new rebuttal ad of her own, and in a news conference made pointed appeals to her core supporters, women and Italian-Americans, to reject the attacks.
The first two-thirds of the debate remained remarkably calm compared to the harsh tones common in the race in recent weeks. But when one of the panelists asked Ms. Ferraro whether lingering questions about her finances would make her a weak candidate against the Republican incumbent, Alfonse M. D'Amato, the gloves came off.
 
Powerful Counterattack
 Ms. Ferraro immediately said that most ethical questions about Mr. D'Amato centered on whether he had done favors in office for political contributors. She contended that while no one had ever raised such questions about her, both Ms. Holtzman and Mr. Abrams -- to whom she repeatedly referred as "Liz" and "Bobby" -- had been criticized for taking campaign contributions from people who had official business with their offices.
"The people of this state own me," she said.
Ms. Ferraro, a former Assistant District Attorney, then seemed to fluster Mr. Abrams by pointing out that he had misstated the year in which the Federal Election Commission forced her to pay a fine for taking improper campaign loans from her family.
"What year was that, Bob?" she demanded.
Ms. Holtzman, who turned in her seat to look into Ms. Ferraro's eyes, demanded to know why she had continued to rent warehouse space to a distributor of pornography for nearly three years after promising to evict him. Ms. Ferraro leaned right back toward her and demanded at one point, "Was anyone arrested?"
When Ms. Holtzman replied, "I don't know," Ms. Ferraro broke in with an emphatic, "No, they were not!"
At one point, their exchange grew so heated that the moderator, Bill Beutel of WABC-TV, interrupted to steer them on to the next question, calling, "Ladies! Ladies!"
 
Applause for Sharpton
 The only applause of the evening went to Mr. Sharpton, when he criticized the others for spending too much time on such questions, and losing perspective on pressing issues like jobs and affordable housing. "They forget," he said. "They're not running for prosecutor now. They're running for Senate."
The state's top Democrat, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, said afterward that "the negativity was terribly distasteful." He said: "It does not help Holtzman or Abrams to be perceived as that rancorous. It does not create a likable candidate." Asked who had won, Mr. Cuomo replied, "It's clear that Sharpton did himself good, because he was positive, because he was mature. It's also clear that the other three all got hurt to some extent."
Among the candidates, Ms. Ferraro seemed the most light-hearted of the four at the end. Her husband, John A. Zaccaro, who had been in the studio, greeted Ms. Ferraro, saying, "You did well."
Ms. Ferraro told reporters she thought the debate went well for her, adding, a bit grimly, "I enjoyed it."
But Ms. Holtzman gave no quarter when asked if Ms. Ferraro had faced her down. "Absolutely not," she said. "She didn't face me down. She interrupted me. And she didn't answer all the questions."
And Mr. Abrams claimed victory, saying he had shown his differences with Ms. Ferraro on health care and defense cuts.
 
Difficult Opener
 The debate opened with a politically loaded question -- whether any of the candidates supported taxing Social Security benefits for the rich.
Ms. Holtzman saidthat "tampering with the Social Security system is a big mistake," and called for expanded Medicare benefits.
And none of the other candidates favored the notion.
This discussion led quickly into the broader question of tax increases in general, particularly for the middle class.
 
Focus on Tax Increase
 Ms. Ferraro said that she favored a surtax on people making over $200,000 a year and tax breaks for the middle class. Ms. Holtzman said she would take a cautious approach to any increase, given the recession.
Mr. Abrams sought to distance himself from Ms. Ferraro, who favors cutting $100 billion from the military budget in the next five years, about one-third the amount favored by her opponents, and said he opposed any tax increase.
 
Unfair Treatment?
 Asked whether they believed black, Hispanic and other minority citizens could receive fair treatment in the criminal justice system, all the candidates said they believed racism was a problem. And Mr. Abrams, Ms. Holtzman and Mr. Sharpton quickly used the question to attack Ms. Ferraro's support of the death penalty.
"I think Gerry wants to get it both ways," said Mr. Abrams. He said she was trying to score points on the issue, while sharply limiting when she thought capital punishment was appropriate.
But Ms. Ferraro said she was "strong enough to take an unpopular position when I believe it's right," referring to Democratic resistance to the death penalty. But support for the death penalty is far more common among the general electorate.
Calling the death penalty "wrong under any circumstances," Mr. Sharpton said that it had not proved an effective deterrent and that once a person is dead, "we cannot give a person his life back or her life back." He also questioned Mr. Abrams and Ms. Holtzman's commitment to placing blacks in senior positions in their offices as Attorney General and Brooklyn District Attorney -- to which they strenuously objected, saying they had appointed many, and at high levels.
Ms. Holtzman stressed her view that there were other ways to fight crime, like combatting drugs, banning handguns and giving criminals stiffer sentences.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Candidates for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate from New York during yesterday's debate. From left: the Rev. Al Sharpton, Robert Abrams, Geraldine A. Ferraro and Elizabeth Holtzman. (Pool photo by Bob Strong)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); CHURCH & STATE (62%); RELIGION (62%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (53%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; FERRARO, GERALDINE A; SHARPTON, AL (REV); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER) AL SHARPTON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



305 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
VOWING A REVIVAL, PRESIDENT SETS OUT HIS ECONOMIC PLAN

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Seeking to convince the electorate that he has a coherent plan to lead the country to prosperity, President Bush today packaged his economic proposals of the last four years into what he called "a single program, a unified strategy" to revive the nation's economy.
Speaking to business leaders here, Mr. Bush promised a broad mix of tax and spending cuts, expanded social programs and new free-trade pacts as he sought to weave a string of domestic and foreign policy steps into a strategy for a new global economy. 
 "I want to stimulate entrepreneurial capitalism, not punish it; I want to empower people to make their own choices, not yoke them to new bureaucracies," the President declared. "I want a government that spends less, regulates less and taxes less."
 
Thorny Topic of Debate
 But while Mr. Bush expounded on the economy, Congress and the Administration took up the issue of job losses from the North American Free Trade Agreement, proving how thorny a topic the economy can be. Labor Secretary Lynn Martin conceded that the accord could put up to 150,000 Americans out of work. [Page D1.]
The President's speech offered neither new programs nor quick remedies for the slump that has dogged the nation for the last two years but focused mostly on his long-term hopes.
Its clear purpose was to outline, for the first time in the campaign, just what Mr. Bush's domestic economic philosophy is, and how it contrasts with the 22-page blueprint that his opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton, released in June.
Mr. Clinton said Mr. Bush's proposals would harm the elderly, college students and disabled veterans. "The deficit would continue to grow, because this plan does nothing to control health care costs, and has a lot of accounting gimmicks in it," the Arkansas Governor said. "So this is more of the same. More tax cuts for upper-income people and more deficits and less growth. We've had this for 12 years. Now, just two months before the election, the President repackages it."
The President may have made himself vulnerable on fiscal matters today, when his press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, sought to hedge Mr. Bush's statement of the day before on whether he would raise taxes again.
 
Remarks by Fitzwater
 At a rally in New Jersey, the President appeared to renew the explicit pledge that he made in his 1988 campaign not to raise taxes. Mr. Bush had abandoned that pledge in 1990 during negotiations with Congress on the budget, and the resulting outcry among conservatives has cost him dearly.
"We do not need to raise taxes in this country," Mr. Bush said Wednesday. "I found out the hard way. I went along with one Democratic tax increase, and I'm not going to do it again. Ever, ever!"
Today, Mr. Fitzwater said Mr. Bush was not repeating his 1988 pledge but was restating his opposition to the kinds of tax increases the Democratic Party has supported.
Asked whether Mr. Bush has ruled out Republican tax increases as well as Democratic ones, Mr. Fitzwater said, "We just haven't addressed that."
The exchange produced a scornful response from the Democrats. The Vice-Presidential candidate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, said: "Well, it sounds to me as if Marlin Fitzwater has learned to be a lip reader. We are now greatly in debt to Mr. Fitzwater for interpreting the President's comments."
In his Detroit speech today, Mr. Bush promised to submit 13 of his proposals to Congress in the first year of a second term, and to work around Congress, through the states and foreign governments, should the lawmakers balk.
Most of the ideas were ones that Congress has rejected or failed to act on. But a senior Administration official who briefed reporters on Mr. Bush's plan today insisted that that did not detract from the significance of Mr. Bush's remarks. "Everything doesn't have to be new to be good, or to work," that aide said.
The official said before the speech that Mr. Bush sought to set a theme for a second term: that the nation must shape up domestically, weaning itself off debt and becoming better educated and healthier.
 
'We Can Change America'
 The President has said as much in countless campaign speeches and in his State of the Union Message last January, arguing that "if we can change the world, we can change America." But public opinion surveys suggest that his campaign has not convinced voters that the White House actually had a concept of how America should change.
Mr. Bush sought to highlight distinctions between his economic ideas and those of Mr. Clinton, who advocates raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations and spending $220 billion on education, public-works projects and technology to build a base for new business growth.
"Our nation has never been seduced by the mirage that my opponent offers, of a government that accumulates capital by taxing it and borrowing it from the people, and then redistributing it," he said. "We know that the clumsy hand of government is no match for the uplifting hand of the marketplace."
The agenda that Mr. Bush outlined, in a 40-minute address to the Economic Club of Detroit, includes some increases in Federal social programs like job training and education. But it is tilted heavily toward cutting taxes, spending and regulation.
These were among Mr. Bush's proposals today:
*A tax cut, tied to spending cuts, in the first year of a second term. This updated the pledge he first made in his speech at the Republican convention in Houston by placing a time limit on it. He refused to say which taxes he would cut, and by how much, but did suggest that he could cut the income tax by one percentage point, reduce the tax on small business by one-third and reduce the tax on capital gains if Congress were to enact $132 million in spending cuts he has proposed.
*A reduction in the White House budget by one-third, or about $85 million, if Congress agrees to a similar 33 percent reduction in its operating budget. Mr. Bush also promised to cut the salaries of Federal workers making more than $75,000 annually by 5 percent.
*A plan to streamline the executive branch, largely by merging and abolishing outdated agencies. Aides said no such blueprint had yet been devised, but Mr. Bush suggested that the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency was one candidate. And an aide seemed to indicate that the Federal Emergency Management Agency -- the butt of criticism after Hurricane Andrew's devastation -- might be another.
 
What the Hopes Are
 Mr. Bush's aides said they hoped that today's speech would bolster the President's case for re-election in at least two important ways. One is by turning Mr. Bush's strong suit, his foreign-policy expertise, to domestic political advantage in a shrinking world.
Another is to depict Mr. Clinton as the reactionary in this race -- as the captive of forces opposed to change -- and as a corollary, to cast Mr. Bush as the candidate of real revolution.
Mr. Bush repeatedly invited listeners to measure the "grand canyon" separating his pledges -- to cut taxes and spending, and to challenge powerful institutions like lawyers and the public schools -- with Mr. Clinton's own fiscal policies and his opposition to such Bush proposals as the introduction of competition between public and private schools.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush with a copy of his economic plan yesterday in Detroit. (Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. A1); George J. Mitchell, the Senate majority leader, and Richard A. Gephardt, rear, House majority leader, arriving at a news conference where the Democrats criticized President Bush's economic plan; Robert H. Michel, right, House minority leader, with Newt Gingrich, the minority whip, at a news conference yesterday defending the plan. (pg. A30) (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



306 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

 BODY:

PRESIDENT BUSH
In a speech to the Detroit Economic Club yesterday
"The American people have just completed the greatest mission in the lifetime of our country, the triumph of Democratic capitalism over imperial communism. And today this year, for the first time since December of 1941, the United States is not engaged in a war, hot or cold. And throughout history, at the close of prolonged and costly wars, victors have confronted the problem of securing a new basis for peace and prosperity. 
 The American people recognize that we stand at such a watershed, and we sense the epic changes at work in the world and in the economy, the uneasiness that stirs the democracies who served as our partners in the long struggle. And we feel the uneasiness in our own homes, our own communities, and we see the difficulties of our neighbors and friends who have felt change most directly. And we know that while we face an era of great opportunity, we face great risks, as well, if we fail to make the right choices, if we fail to engage this new world wisely.
But America has always possessed unique powers. And foremost among them is the power of regeneration -- to transform uncertainty into opportunity. Only in America do we have the people, the talents, the principles and ideals to fully embrace the world that opens before us. For America to be safe and strong, we must meet the defining challenge of the 1990s -- to win the economic competition, to win the peace, and we must be a military superpower, an economic superpower, an export superpower."
 
SENATOR AL GORE
In comments on the family leave bill in Lexington, Ky.
"We have to make a choice as a country. Are we really committed to helping families stay together? Are we really committed to giving parents the short time off that they need when a chld is in the hospital, when a child is first born, when a child is adopted to get the family off to a good start or not? If we believe that's important, we have to place it in a higher priority position.
That's what this legislation does. It's written in a way that minimizes any hardship on employers. The leave is unpaid. Small businesses are exempted. The amount of leave that is required is limited to a relatively short period of time. There have to be the circumstances that absolutely warrant it.
Now, you talk about the hardship that would be faced by an employer, even with all those conditions. What about the hardship faced by families who suddenly are facing a crisis that requires them to be in a hospital with a child or to help a spouse who has suddenly had an accident or a serious illness? What about the hardship on the families? What about the hardship on the taxpayers who end up paying billions of dollars a year in extra welfare and food stamp costs for people who are fired from their jobs simply because of a family crisis leading to them having to take a little time off? This is good for families. It's good for the taxpayers, and I believe that it's good for business too. Japan, Germany, every other industrial country in the world, already has this law."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HISTORY (76%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); SICK LEAVE (68%); FAMILY LEAVE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



307 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL;
N.F.L.'s Free-Agency System Is Found Unfair by U.S. Jury

BYLINE: By THOMAS GEORGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The National Football League's system of free agency, under which teams retain the rights to their best players, was rendered illegal today by a Federal jury in an antitrust lawsuit brought by eight players.
After deliberating for 16 hours over two days, the eight-woman jury found for the players and awarded damages totaling $543,000 to four of the plaintiffs. Under antitrust law, that figure is tripled to $1,629,000. 
 The players argued that the league's system of free agency -- known as Plan B -- constituted a restraint of trade by illegally limiting their ability to earn top salaries comparable with those of players in other pro sports.
The case was widely viewed as a key to the financial future of the N.F.L. A lawyer for the league warned in closing arguments that a verdict for the players could mean "the destruction of the National Football League as we know it."
Attorneys who represented the players said that today's ruling would have far-reaching effects in the N.F.L., including the right for all players to sue for damages because of the restrictions of Plan B, instituted by the owners in 1989 in the absence of a labor agreement.
The league, which had argued that its system of free agency was essential to maintain competitive balance among the 28 teams, said it would appeal the decision.
Damages were awarded to Mark Collins of the New York Giants ($178,000), Frank Minnifield of the Cleveland Browns ($50,000), Dave Richards of the San Diego Chargers ($240,000) and a former player for the Giants, Lee Rouson, ($75,000).
Under antitrust law, the N.F.L must pay the players' attorney fees, which could be in excess of $10 million.
No damages were awarded to the Green Bay Packers' Don Majkowski, the Phoenix Cardinals' Tim McDonald, the New York Jets' Freeman McNeil or former Los Angeles Raider Niko Noga, who was cut by the team in training camp.
The players who received damages had teammates or players of similar ability on other teams who were unrestricted free agents and were paid more.
 
'Total and Huge Victory'
 "This is a total and huge victory," said Jim Quinn, the players' lead counsel. "For the rest of the players, liability has been found; the only issue is how much damages they get. Maybe some will get zero, and maybe some will get nearly a million like Dave Richards got.
"We are not trying to blow up the world or look for the destruction of professional sports."
Joe Browne, the N.F.L.'s vice president for communications, said the ruling meant only that Plan B, which allows teams to protect 37 players after each season, was too restrictive, not that restrictions were illegal.
"What the jury said is we are entitled to have rules," Browne said. "The jury has said Plan B is too broad."
 
Protection and Compensation
 Plan B allows teams on Feb. 1 to protect 37 players on their 47-man rosters, leaving the rest free to sign with other teams without compensation.
In theory, a protected player whose contract has expired can also accept an offer from another team, but the team that protected the player can match the offer and retain his services. That, according to the lawsuit, restricted the player's movement.
Further, if a player's former team chose not to match the contract offer, the new team had to provide compensation in the form of draft choices.
Only two restricted players had moved to new teams since the system went into effect.
The jury's decision was the culmination of a 36-day trial spanning 3 months that began June 16. Judge David Doty, needing eight jurors to decide the case, whittled a panel of 41 prospective jurors down to nine women, largely by eliminating those with union ties, avid football fans and those who said either players or owners made too much money. One juror was later excused after she told the judge she had become prejudiced against the players after listening to the league's opening arguments.
 
Judge's Guidelines
 The jury was given five guidelines by Doty to help it reach a verdict:
*Does the Plan B system have a substantially harmful effect on competition among pro football players for their services? The jury answered yes.
*Does the Plan B system significantly contribute to competitive balance in the N.F.L.? The jury answered yes.
*Is the Plan B system no more restrictive than reasonably necessary to achieve the objective of establishing and maintaining competitive league balance? The jury said no.
*Did the players suffer any economic injury from Plan B? The jury answered yes.
*What amount of money, if any, will compensate the eight players who might have sustained economic injury? The jury decided each player's case individually.
 
Road to the Courtroom
 The eight players sought greater free agency through the courts in the absence of a collective bargaining agreement between the league and its players association.
In the last agreement, which ran from 1982 until 1987, the teams secured the right of refusal and compensation.
The players struck in 1987, and the owners created further bitterness by fielding teams with replacement players. The striking players eventually returned to their teams, and sporadic and caustic negotiations never came close to reaching labor peace.
In 1989, the N.F.L. said it was instituting Plan B -- as in "let's go to Plan B" -- in an effort to address the players' concern for more free agency while maintaining the league's goal of competitive balance. The league also hoped to satisfy the court's rule of reason under antitrust law in response to any litigation.
Doty ruled in July 1988 that the players and their union had reached an impasse in their negotiations for a new labor contract that would include more free agency. But his ruling was overturned in November 1990 by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, which said that the league's rules could not be attacked under antitrust laws as long as there was a union.
Within a month, the players' union responded by ceasing to be a union -- saying it had been decertified. The league argues that the union remains a legal entity.
 
'We Should Be Out of Court'
 "Well, I think it demonstrates again what earlier player cases show, that we should be out of court and into collective bargaining," said Paul Tagliabue, the National Football League commissioner. "It's a wash. In five years of litigation, what do they have to show for it, $350,000 a year and further appeals?
"I think when people settle down a little bit, on both sides, they'll realize this litigation, to paraphrase Lombardi, is like kissing your sister. Let's move on and do something else."
Even after the trial had begun on June 15, both sides appeared willing to reach a labor settlement that would have dissolved the suit, but disagreement ran rampant.
The players proposed free agency for all players after four years, but the owners would agree to free agency after no fewer than six years. The owners then said they were prepared to move toward four years in exchange for a longer labor agreement -- at least eight or nine years.
 
Seeking Exemptions
 The owners' proposal also called for exemptions. They insisted on retaining a "franchise" player who could not seek free agency but would be promised certain attractive financial guarantees. They wanted the option to match offers for two other players, or let them go and receive the compensation of two first-round draft choices from the new teams.
The players would not agree with the second exemption, and both sides couldn't resolve the other disputes.
It was back to court, and, eventually, to today's verdict.
"Plan B is dead, but we can go to Plan C or whatever," said Greg Aiello, the N.F.L.'s director of communications.
Gene Upshaw, the executive director of the players association, said the next attempt by the owners would have to be much different.
"They know they can't do a cosmetic change," he said. "If they say they'll go to Plan C -- Plan B is gone and we will sue on Plan C. If they want to take that chance, we say fine. That is why we have the courts."
 
Owners Didn't Testify
 Each of the eight players testified before the jury, but no owner did. Quinn said in his closing argument that although several owners -- including the Kansas City Chiefs' Lamar Hunt, the Giants' co-owner Wellington Mara and the Cleveland Browns' Art Modell -- were present for closing arguments that "not one -- and what is it, a 40-foot walk up to that stand? -- got up there because they knew they couldn't possibly defend the system."
Frank Rothman said in his closing argument that no owners took the stand because they were not on trial and that their incomes and tax structures were irrelevant to the case.
Rothman had argued that the players already receive 62 percent of the league's total revenues and that the eight players who had brought suit were simply greedy. Rothman asked the jury when was the last time they or family members had received 250 to 500 percent raises like some of the players who had filed suit.
"What is truly at stake here?" Rothman had asked the jury. "We believe the entire professional sport will be affected and, no question, it would be the destruction of the National Football League that we know today."
On the league's free agency system, Rothman had concluded: "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
The jury decided today, however, that the sytem, and Plan B in particular, need fixing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); OHIO, USA (69%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (53%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); OHIO, USA (69%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION JURY TRIALS (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); DAMAGES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); ATHLETES (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); 

PERSON: GEORGE, THOMAS DAVID DOTY (56%); DAVE RICHARDS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



308 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Prices Take Plunge On Weak Asian Demand

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Copper futures prices plunged sharply yesterday amid weak demand in the Far East, sluggish business activity in Western nations and the absence of any major economic incentives from President Bush, analysts said.
The December copper contract on New York's Commodity Exchange has lost 5 percent of its value in the three trading days so far this week. The biggest hit was yesterday, when the contract declined 2.85 cents, to $1.0695 a pound. 
 "There was aggressive selling in London by Chinese interests, and the prospects for Japanese demand is fairly bleak," said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist in New York with Merrill Lynch Futures.
The market has been counting on a substantial physical demand for the metal in the Far East because nothing much was expected out of the stagnant economies in Western Europe and North American.
"Chinese selling in London scared everyone," said Bette Raptopoulos, senior metals analyst in New York for Prudential Securities Inc. "They were supposed to be the ones who were going to support the market."
While China apparently has overbought for its immediate needs, it shouldn't be ruled out as a substantial buyer in the next few months, Mr. O'Neill said.
The market was watching for any indication for an improved economy from President Bush's speech before the Detroit Economic Club.
"I would have to say that Bush's talk was negative for copper simply because there didn't appear to be any major new incentives that would stimulate the economy," Mr. O'Neill said.
Energy futures were mixed on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Light sweet crude oil for October delivery was 6 cents lower at $21.93 a barrel; October heating oil was 0.49 cent higher at 62.22 cents a gallon; October unleaded gasoline was 0.89 cent lower at 59.67 cents a gallon, and natural gas for October delivery was 4.8 cents lower at $2.128 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Warm, dry weather promised for the Midwest next week sent corn and soybean futures lower on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Corn also was under pressure from the belief that the Agriculture Department is expecting a large harvest. But in fact, the 8.77-billion-bushel harvest forecast after the close of trading was below market expectations and only a little above what the department estimated a month earlier.
Wheat futures also declined, mostly in sympathy with corn but also under pressure from a report that China may balk at buying subsidized American grain because it is angry about the United States plan to sell fighter jets to Taiwan.
Wheat for delivery in September was 2.25 cents lower at $3.27 a bushel; September corn was 3.25 cents lower at $2.2375 a bushel; September oats were 0.75 cent lower at $1.38 a bushel, and September soybeans were 2 cents lower at $5.6225 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (69%); MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COPPER MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); AGRICULTURE (66%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (62%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



309 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Rejects Plan to Repair Florida Base

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Dealing a serious blow to President Bush's $7.6 billion plan to rebuild South Florida in the aftermath of the hurricane, the Senate Appropriations Committee today rejected his proposal to restore Homestead Air Force Base.
The committee action took the Administration by surprise, and it provoked a bitter White House reaction that set the stage for another Republican campaign offensive against Congress. "We regret the proclivity of the Democrats to play politics with human suffering," said Judy Smith, a White House spokeswoman. Three Republicans on the committee joined the 12-to-8 majority. 
 The committee's vote was the second Congressional slap at the President today. After an emotional debate, the House passed and sent to Mr. Bush a popular family-leave bill, flouting a threatened veto that could prove embarrassing in the Presidential campaign. [Page A26.]
Many lawmakers outside of Florida have been hoping to close the Homestead base out of the fear that reconstruction costs could siphon money from military posts in their districts and threaten their own future re-election bids.
"I lost a base last year," Senator Dale Bumpers, Democrat of Arkansas, said in an interview with The Associated Press. "And the President cavalierly says we're going to rebuild Homestead. When President Bush went down and said he'd rebuild Homestead, you're talking about politics of the rankest kind."
The air base, an economic anchor in the towns south of Miami, was a candidate for closing even before it was demolished by Hurricane Andrew. Its reconstruction was considered unlikely until President Bush, responding to criticism that he had acted slowly to deal with the storm damage, traveled to the base, in a politically crucial state, and announced that it would be rebuilt.
Members of Florida's Congressional delegation said they were considering trying to revive the effort in Congress to come up with about $480 million to rebuild the base.
To protect his political flank, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the Democratic Presidential nominee, had endorsed Mr. Bush's call for reconstruction of the base, although he apparently did little to persuade Senate Democrats to support the effort.
While Democrats may have jeopardized Mr. Clinton's outside chance of winning Florida, they can at least bolster their argument that they care as much if not more than the Administration about cutting wasteful spending. After making cuts and additions today, the Senate panel approved an emergency aid package that is $150 million less than the President proposed.
The Senate committee vote withholds the $480 million that Mr. Bush had asked Congress to appropriate for the base. Instead, the panel approved $26 million for cleanup costs, probably dooming the base, which employed about 8,400 military and civilian personnel and generated more than $405 million annually for the local economy, according to the Pentagon.
Joining nine Democrats in voting to close the base were three senior Republicans: Senators Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico and Phil Gramm of Texas.
Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, lashed out at Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the Democratic chairman of the Appropriations Committee, for displaying "insensitivity" by not thoroughly considering Florida's needs before the vote. "This is the cruelest thing that has happened to the people of South Florida," he said.
 
Added Money for Farmers
 The committee approved $7.45 billion in other assistance Mr. Bush had requested to help disaster victims in Florida, Louisiana and Guam, which was recently hit by Typhoon Omar. The panel added more than $100 million in additional relief for Louisiana oyster and crawfish farmers, and $300 million more for disaster payments to farmers throughout the nation who suffered crop losses due to a variety of natural disasters.
After today's committee vote, a senior White House official hinted that President Bush might decide to veto the entire aid package because of frustration with the Senate action.
In another setback for Homestead Air Force Base, Representative John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania, the powerful Democratic chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said today that he would not support its reopening. "I have great concern of rehabilitating this base when we have so many bases closing throughout the country," he said in an interview. "That base will never be reopened as it was, although it could become a smaller reserve facility with an airstrip for anti-drug interdiction."
 
Military Spending Debated
 A strenuous debate preceding the Senate committee vote was marked by arguments over what role military spending should play in the future development of the national economy.
"We shouldn't consider defense as a jobs program," said Senator Harry M. Reid, Democrat of Nevada, who sponsored the amendment that killed financing to rebuild the base.
Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, agreed, saying: "This crowd has to start to sober up. We feel sorry for Florida, but let's not throw money around."
Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, one of three Democrats who voted to support the President's plan to rebuild the base, disagreed. He noted that with tourism and agriculture shattered in the area south of Miami, "all they have left" is the air base.
Homestead was not included on a list of 34 military bases recommended for closing last year by an independent base commission, but even before the hurricane it was widely expected to be included on next year's list. Should Congress reverse the Appropriations Committee decision, the base commission could still decide to close Homestead.
 
Base's Importance Reduced
 Opponents of rebuilding the base noted that there were nine other Air Force bases in Florida, where many of the operations of Homestead could be transferred. With the end of the cold war, Homestead's mission as a forward base countering Fidel Castro's regime in Cuba has substantially decreased in importance. And several lawmakers have contended that there are a number of bases in the South, including one in Tampa, that can assume Homestead's anti-narcotics surveillance flights.
F-16 fighter jets once based at Homestead have been transferred to Moody Air Force Base in Georgia and Shaw Air Force Base in South Carolina. Virtually all Homestead's personnel were evacuated before the Aug. 24 hurricane. More than 1,000 buildings on or linked to the base were shattered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA) ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (91%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA) SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (91%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; HOMESTEAD (FLA) UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FEDERAL AID (US); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS ARMED FORCES (92%); AIR FORCES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); WEATHER (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); VETO (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (75%); FAMILY LEAVE (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



310 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
ISRAEL AND SYRIA TALK OF PEACE
Israeli officials said the longtime enemies are negotiating the terms of a document on principles for a peace settlement. The plan would involve the return to Syria of at least part of the Golan Heights, which Israel captured in 1967. A1
 
U.N. WANTS MORE TROOPS IN BOSNIA
In a move that would greatly expand the size of the United Nations peacekeeping force in the wartorn country, Secretary General Boutros-Ghali formally proposed the addition of more than 5,000 NATO troops to protect relief convoys. A1 

WARPLANES SHADOW AID FLIGHTS
Warplanes of the Serbian forces in Bosnia have been shadowing Western aid flights, officials said, and the United States has formally protested the action. A10
 
CLOSING THE GAP IN SOUTH AFRICA
With both sides apparently jarred into a search for conciliation after the massacre of more than two dozen people on Monday, the African National Congress agreed in principle to a summit meeting with President de Klerk to try to curb violence and resume the transition to a nonracial democracy. A3
 
THE YELTSIN FALLOUT IN JAPAN
The Russian President's abrupt cancellation of a visit to Japan set off an unusual round of recriminations. The Japanese Government was accused of pressing the Russian leader so hard in a territorial dispute that it lost its best chance in decades to improve ties with Moscow. A12
 
News analysis: Why Russia won't yield four obscure islands.A12
 
SETBACKS FOR BRAZIL'S LEADER
With impeachment pressure mounting over a corruption scandal, President Collor canceled a trip to the United States and accepted the resignation of a top aide. A Supreme Court ruling also dashed his hopes of avoiding impeachment. A3
 
CHINESE NUCLEAR PLANT FOR IRAN
The two Governments announced that China would provide Iran with its first nuclear power plant. President Rafsanjani of Iran said there were no plans for new military agreements between the countries, and China said Iran had agreed to international inspections of the power plant. A6
 
Russia may have more bomb-grade uranium than was thought. A8
 
BINDING NICARAGUA'S WOUNDS
Despite charges that she was caving in to the United States, President Chamorro has taken steps to resolve some of Nicaragua's bitter disputes over private property. A7
 
Tokyo Journal: A break for overworked young students. A4
 
National A14-31
 
BUSH PRESENTS AN ECONOMIC PLAN
Packaging his proposals of the last four years into what he called "a unified strategy" to revive the economy, the President offered a broad mixture of tax and spending cuts, expanded social programs and new free-trade pacts. A1
 
News analysis: Bush finds himself hemmed in over the economy. A30
 
Excerpts from Bush's remarks on restoring growth.A30
 
Clinton moved to gain control of campaign news coverage. A31
 
A CLASH OVER HURRICANE RELIEF
A Senate committee rejected the President's proposal to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base. The vote provoked a bitter reaction at the White House, which said Democrats were playing politics with human misery. A1
 
The troops in South Florida cope with unfamiliar terrain. A20
 
NEW ROUND IN FAMILY-LEAVE FIGHT
Congress again sent to the White House, but by less than a veto-proof margin, a bill that would require employers to give their workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for medical emergencies. A26
 
 Many companies joined to help employees provide family care. A26
 
INDICTMENT IN HOUSE POSTAL CASE
A Federal grand jury said a postal manager had conspired with lawmakers to use the House post office for "personal and campaign services." None of the legislators were identified, however. A14
 
SPECIAL INSLAW INQUIRY SOUGHT
The 21 Democratic members of the House Judiciary Committee asked the Justice Department to seek appointment of a special prosecutor who would investigate accusations that senior officials of the department stole a computer company's program to benefit their friends and associates. A24
 
WOMEN AND WAR
A new survey found that a large majority of women in the Army favored repealing the military's rules excluding women from combat roles. But only 15 percent said they would volunteer for combat jobs if allowed to do so. A24
 
Four women charging sex abuse sued the Tailhook Association. A24
 
2 RESEARCHERS IN VIRAL ACCIDENT
Two researchers studying an AIDS-like virus in monkeys were accidentally exposed to the virus in different laboratories, and Federal health officials are conducting tests to determine whether either has become infected. A26
 
The Government reported a surge in travel-related cholera. A16
 
Jolo Journal: A revival replete with snake-handling. A14
 
Law Page B8
 
She has a choice: Marry him by next Thursday, or pay him $40,000.
 
At the Bar
 
Metro Digest B1
 
SENATE CANDIDATES DEBATE
The four contenders for the Democratic Senate nomination from New York met for their first major debate, just four days before the primary election. A1
 
WASHINGTON HEIGHTS RULING
The claims of two sisters who said they saw a police officer beat and fatally shoot a Dominican immigrant crumbled under the weight of physical evidence and their own contradictions, leading a grand jury to clear the officer, the Manhattan District Attorney said. A1
 
FIRE UNION IN TENTATIVE PACT
In a settlement the Dinkins administration hopes will set a pattern for coming labor talks, City Hall and the firefighters union agreed on a tentative contract that calls for a 4.5 percent raise. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-27, C34-35
 
Maximizing minimal golf. C1
 
A quiet boom for adult pop music. C1
 
A merger plan is abandoned by ballet troupes. C3
 
Bessie Awards presented. C23
 
Bobby Fischer barely excapes with a draw. C27
 
Restaurants C18-19
 
Art: Magritte at Met. C1
 
Word and Image: "Trick of the Eye," a thriller. C25
 
Obituaries D15-16
 
Thoralf M. Sundt Jr., a brain surgeon. D15
 
Dr. Thomas E. Robinson, an ex-college president. D16
 
Raymond P. Hickok, an executive who helped develop seat belts. D16
 
Sports B9-15
 
JURORS FIND FOR PLAYERS
The National Football League's Plan B system was virtually rendered illegal by a Federal court jury, and four of the eight players who had initiated the case were awarded damages that totaled $1.6 million. A1
 
Baseball: Owners talk of lockout. B9
 
Basketball: McDaniel jumps to Celtics. B9
 
Columns: Vecsey on McDaniel's move. B9
 
TV sports B13
 
On baseball B11
 
Football: Carolina players involved in protest. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A34-35
 
Editorials
 
At last, a Bush package.
Dealing with a wounded Russia.
Stemming the upsurge in measles.
Assembly: Brooklyn, the Bronx.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Movies, drugs, elections.
 
Anthony Lewis: Loop the loop.
 
Marilyn Quayle: Workers, wives and mothers.
 
Patti Waldmeir: Why they died in Ciskei.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (81%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (81%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); POWER PLANTS (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



311 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Senate Kills Legislation To Curb Liability Suits

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The Senate today killed legislation aimed at reducing damages that manufacturers pay to injured consumers in product liability lawsuits.
The issue has been simmering in Congress for years, with manufacturers and insurance companies on one side and consumer groups and trial lawyers on the other. The election season added spice, with the Bush Administration pushing for the measure and the Democratic candidate for President, Bill Clinton, opposing it. 
 This year's measure would have created several incentives for plaintiffs and defendants in product-liability cases to settle their differences out of court and thereby reduce the burden on the legal system.
Proponents said it would discourage frivolous suits. Opponents said that it would effectively force consumers injured by faulty products to accept company settlement offers less than the amount to which they were entitled.
 
Championed by Quayle
 The product-liability bill has long been championed by Vice President Dan Quayle, who complained before the American Bar Association last year that litigation costs, jury awards and liability insurance cost the economy $80 billion a year.
President Bush took up the cudgel at last month's Republican convention, calling for "an end to crazy lawsuits" and blaming "every trial lawyer who ever wore tasseled loafers" for them. He said they were responsible for loss of United States factory jobs.
But consumer groups, citing studies by private firms that rate the financial health of insurance companies, put the cost of the present system at only $2 billion a year.
Without the publicity and other threats posed by such suits seeking large damage awards, they contend, companies would have even less incentive to keep faulty products like the Ford Pinto and Dalkon Shield off the market.
 
Question of Focus
 "The manufacturers would like to focus the debate on lawyers, not the paraplegics, burn victims and permanently disabled people whose lives are shattered by their defective and dangerous products," said Joan Claybrook of Public Citizen, a group founded by Ralph Nader.
The bill would have restructured the contingency fee system under which most product injury suits are now brought. Plaintiffs who now hire lawyers to represent them for a share of any jury award would have become liable for picking up the defendant corporation's legal costs if they lost the suit or a jury awarded them an amount smaller then what the company offered as a settlement.
A vote of 58 to 38 to consider the bill fell two votes short of the 60 needed to force Senate action. The Senate refusal to take up the bill virtually ended any hope for its approval this year but the bill is sure to be reintroduced next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; CONSUMER PROTECTION LEGISLATION (91%); LITIGATION (91%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); DAMAGES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PARALYSIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BURN INJURIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



312 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From Bush's Economic Speech in Detroit

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Following are excepts from a speech by President Bush today to the Detroit Economic Club, as transcribed by Reuters:

 	 	 		. . .	 	My agenda for renewal asks that we look forward, to open new markets, prepare our people to work, strengthen our families, save and invest, so that we can win. Our renewal depends on economic growth, but growth not for the few at the expense of the many, not for the present at the expense of the future. In our country we've always prized an entrepreneurial capitalism that grows from the bottom up, not the top down, a prosperity that begins on Main Street and extends to Wall Street, not the other way around. 
 And that's the lesson I learned as a young man -- packed up a Studebaker and moved to Texas after another war at the start of another era. I saw jobs, prosperity and an entire future built with the hands of ordinary men and women with extraordinary dreams. And our nation has never been seduced by the mirage that my opponent offers of a government that accumulates capital by taxing it and borrowing it from the people and then redistributing in according to some industrial policy.
We know that the clumsy hand of government is no match for the uplifting hand of the marketplace. My international economic and trade strategy will guarantee our position as an export superpower, extending our global economic reach in tandem with our security presence to stretch beyond our borders so that we can create more jobs within our borders. At the same time we need to foster at home the capabilities that will keep us in the lead.
Radical changes in our education system to prepare our children for a constantly changing workplace, incentives for the entrepreneurs, and new technologies to sharpen our competitive edge -- job training, health care reform -- to promote the economic security of our working men and women, and new approaches for reaching out to those who have been left behind, since in the century ahead we will need the talent and the energy of every single American.
 
Checking Growth
 And finally, because our greatest strengths flow not from government but from the personal initiative of free men and women, my agenda aims to check the growth of government and in some important ways, to reverse it. Together, the components of this new agenda should renew America according to her most cherished principles. And this renewed America will be empowered towards a grand goal -- nearly double the size of our economy to $10 trillion by the early years of the next century. To place this agenda in a larger context, let me turn briefly to five profound changes now at work in our economy.
When Americans gather around the kitchen table at night and talk about how they'll meet a mortgage or pay the doctor's bill, they're feeling these changes in their daily lives. And before the changes have run their course, they will have forever altered the way Americans buy and sell, work and create. The first great change in our economy is ironically caused by our very success in ending the cold war. In the short run, deductions in defense spending have meant painful layoffs in many industries and we are taking steps to ease this transition. But in the medium and long run, deductions in defense will free up priceless skills and technologies for peace-time growth.
Second, most of our industries are transforming themselves from old-style hierarchies into flatter organizations with fewer layers between customer and executive. The new organizations emphasize a skill-based work force, lean production, shorter production cycles, from castings to computers. This is a revolution as dramatic as the one made earlier this century when Henry Ford led the country from craft-based production to mass manufacturing.
While these changes are essential to maintaining our competitive edge, they've come with a cost. Everyone in this room knows that. Layoffs, cutbacks among both white- and blue-collar workers. These hard-working people need reassurance not only about their economic security but about preserving the sense of self-worth that only work can provide.
The third change. While the 1980's brought us the greatest peacetime expansion in our history, the boom also led too many of us to take on too much debt. And we've been paying that down, that debt, and lower interest rates have helped us do that. And the process is largely over, but consumers and companies remain cautious.
The fourth change involves our financial system. We entered the 80's with a 50-year-old banking system designed for the days when tellers wore green eyeshades, not for an era when billions, billions of investment dollars crossed borders at the speed of light. In the late 70's record interest rates and inflation rates rocked this anachronistic system. The less efficient institutions could not survive, obligating the Federal Government to protect the savings of millions of Americans.
Now, this process of paying debt down is nearing its end. Our financial system will become more flexible and efficient, but for now lenders are cautious, and, despite low interest rates, small business can still find it hard to get the credit.
But the most far reaching of these five changes is the emergence of a global economy. No nation is an island today. One out of every six manufacturing jobs is directly tied to exports. The crops sown from one out of every three acres of farmland are sold abroad.
Consider some implications of this global economy. When growth slows abroad, as it has recently, our own growth slows as well. And America will only grow in the next century if we can compete globally in every part of the world.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Today the Federal Government spends nearly 24 cents of every dollar, 24 cents of every dollar of the nation's income. And that's the fact. Government is too big and spends too much. And the size and structure of Government are relics of a different age -- artifacts more suited to the dilemmas of 50 years ago than the problems of today. Every institution in our society has learned that by pushing power down through organizations, by using technology to speed the flow of information, you don't just save money, you improve productivity.
And it's time for the Government to do the same. And I will streamline the Government, consolidating agencies, tightening budgets and cutting the salaries of highly paid Federal employees. And I'll start by cutting the White House budget 33 percent if the Congress cuts its own budget by the same amount.
 
Cutting Taxes
 Taxpayers have tightened their belts. The better paid Federal workers should do the same. The agenda I published today contains specific proposals to cut the fat, got a cap on the growth of mandatory spending, without touching Social Security, a freeze on domestic spending, a balanced budget amendment, a line item veto, and a new mechanism, disciplinary mechanism, a check off box on tax returns to give the taxpayer the power to cut the deficit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



313 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Currencies Teaching Europe That Unity Can Be Painful

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Europe's plans for further unification may be up in the air, but people from Helsinki to Rome have been learning an often painful lesson in recent weeks about how entwined their economies have already become.
The agent of their discomfort has been the effort by most European nations to link the value of their currencies by maintaining relatively stable exchange rates. In doing so amid a worldwide recession, nations have increasingly been torn between their short-term domestic economic needs and their long-range goal of creating a single European market with stable prices and steady growth. 
 In more cases than not, the domestic needs are losing out, bringing more insistent calls from recession-racked consumers and businesses for governments to rethink their policies.
As a result, exchange rates, once of concern only to international travelers and multinational companies, have emerged as a dominant factor in the economic policies of most European nations. And they are developing into a political issue that seems certain to endure no matter what the outcome of the French referendum later this month on whether to approve the next stage of European monetary and political unification.
The issue has become more visible because of the turmoil that has gripped the foreign currency markets in the last month. To a degree, the turmoil is a result of uncertainty about the French vote on Sept. 20 and what it would mean for closer economic cooperation in the region. But the upheaval has been driven primarily by the surge in the value of the German mark against the dollar and most European currencies.
The United States has paid little attention to the weakness of the dollar against the mark, choosing instead to maintain its policy of lower domestic interest rates in the hopes of spurring an economic recovery. But throughout much of Europe, nations are making exactly the opposite decision.
Despite being mired in a severe slump, Italy has raised interest rates sharply this month to defend the value of the lira. Britain has said repeatedly that it will do whatever is necessary to defend the pound, even if it means raising interest rates, a prospect that has horrified many homeowners and business executives who are calling for lower rates.
Sweden this week pushed a key interest rate up to 75 percent -- a level unheard of among industrialized nations -- to defend its currency, forcing up mortgage rates and the costs of business loans and bringing turmoil to its financial markets.
The hope of those nations is that the discipline of maintaining stable currency values through the European exchange rate mechanism will bring wage and price stability throughout the region and help create a vibrant trading market. Their strategy has been to keep the value of their currencies pegged to the mark. Backed by the Bundesbank, Germany's tight-fisted central bank, the mark has long been the world's standard for anti-inflationary credibility.
"These nations believe that a stable exchange rate system is the best way to reduce inflation and that low inflation is the best basis for growth," said David Roche, an economist with Morgan Stanley International in London. "The worst solution is to allow currencies to devalue and inflation to creep up."
Inflation rates have in fact come down throughout Europe. In Britain, for example, inflation stood at 9.5 percent when the nation joined the exchange rate mechanism just under two years ago. Today it stands at about 4 percent.
But lower inflation has not yet brought the advertised resumption of steady economic growth across Europe. And the theoretical long-term benefits of stable prices seem increasingly lost on homeowners who fear rising mortgage payments, on shop owners who see their business drying up and on the unemployed who want to see interest rates drop, even at the cost of a devalued currency, to stimulate the economy.
 
Pressure to Devalue the Pound
 "They must devalue the pound," said Belinda Handman, a real estate investor and entrepreneur in London. "If they raise interest rates, businesses will be on the floor."
On Britain's Isle of Wight, Derek Pullen, a 50-year-old home builder, has seen his business fall 20 percent in the last year, and he is paying 13.5 percent for business loans. He gives the Government high marks for bringing inflation down, but he sees little gain in further unification with Europe and no reason for the Government to defend the pound at all costs.
"If the Government raises interest rates, it will affect me something wicked," Mr. Pullen said.
Not all nations have chosen to stick to their exchange rates. Finland sent shock waves through the currency markets this week when it decided to let the markka float in value against other currencies, a move tantamount to substantial devaluation.
Officials in Helsinki said they could not afford to defend the currency in the markets, and the nation's economy, battered by a sharp drop in trade with the republics of the former Soviet Union, would have suffered additional damage if the Government had raised interest rates.
Finland is not a member of the European Community or its exchange rate agreement, but had been voluntarily linking its currency to other European currencies in preparation for joining. Analysts said Sweden, which has applied for membership in the community, was sending a signal with its decision to raise rates that it could be counted on by Europe as a partner in a stable monetary system.
"You've got a stark contrast at the moment between weak domestic economies demanding lower interest rates and weakness in the currency forcing upward pressure on interest rates," said Peter Fellner, an economist with NatWest Capital Markets in London.
Much of the tension stems from Germany's policy of keeping its interest rates high to ward off inflation as it absorbs the costs of unification with the former East Germany. Some economists are predicting that Germany will lower rates within the next six months to give a boost to its weak economy. But outside Germany there is a growing backlash against the notion that domestic economic decisions are captive to the Bundesbank.
"France is now paying the economic price of German reunification," said Jean Francois Braunstein, a philosophy professor at the University of Amiens in France.
But Mr. Fellner said that unless members of the European exchange rate mechanism decided that they wanted to devalue their currencies against the mark, they had little choice but to wait until the Germans decided that they could safely lower rates, a step that would decrease the value of the mark.
"The argument that this is a German problem and shouldn't be inflicted on the rest of the E.R.M. countries is a valid one," Mr. Fellner said. "The problem is, how do you get out of it without undermining the credibility of the other nations that are making an effort to stick to their exchange rate commitment."
Although political support for remaining within the exchange rate mechanism remains strong in most countries, a growing number of politicans are breaking ranks with their leadership and calling for devaluation to spur growth and reassert control over domestic economic policy-making.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FINLAND (92%); GERMANY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); FINLAND (92%); GERMANY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; ELECTIONS; MAASTRICHT TREATY ON EUROPEAN POLITICAL AND MONETARY UNION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); REFERENDUMS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



314 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Up in Mexico

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Mexico's foreign trade deficit soared but inflation dropped sharply in the first six months of the year, according to Government figures made public today.
Exports rose slightly, but imports shot up, raising the deficit to $9 billion for the six months, compared with $11.1 billion for all of last year. 
 A big chunk of imports consisted of technology, machinery and other capital goods as industrialists renew obsolete plants and factories to prepare for greater competition under a free trade agreement that Mexico recently signed with Canada and the United States.
The agreement, which awaits ratification votes by the legislatures of the three countries, aims to create a free trade zone with 3.6 million consumers and $6.4 trillion in total annual trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (88%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); DURABLE GOODS (87%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



315 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: The Green Card at the End of the Irish Rainbow;
Latest Wave of Immigrants Finds That, Even With Legal Status, Jobs Are Still Tight

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

 BODY:
Last fall, Carol Philbin gave up. Without working papers and out of a job for more than a month, she returned home to Galway for good after three years of struggle in the shadow world of New York City's undocumented Irish.
A letter in her parent's mailbox sent her back again. The letter informed Ms. Philbin that she had won a visa lottery that would allow her to work and live legally in the United States. But since her return, Ms. Philbin -- whose sister Moira and brother Sean have also immigrated to the United States -- has found that while the shadow had lifted, the struggle was not over. 
 "I was very naive in thinking, 'I've got my green card, I'll walk into any job,' " Ms. Philbin, 21 years old, said. "My first six weeks, I couldn't even get a waitressing job. The green card doesn't make any difference. It's not harder but it's not easier. The difference is that here I have the opportunities to do what I want."
 
Talk of Few Jobs
 Among thousands of Irish immigrants in New York, also winners like Ms. Philbin in the unusual lottery, there is a sense that their dream came true -- but at a tough time.
In the city's Irish pubs, the talk at the wooden horseshoe bars is no longer of coveted green cards but of the lack of jobs, particularly in construction where most of the young men work. For many who had received higher education in Ireland, legalization seemed to be synonymous with career advancement, a chance to break out of occupations like construction, waiting on tables and caring for children, but many say they are now being rebuffed by employers because they have insufficient experience in their white-collar professions.
A result is a break in a trend of many decades. Many new Irish immigrants are avoiding New York completely and heading toward Florida, where construction jobs are more readily available.
And in a strange twist, at the moment they become eligible to stay here legally, many young Irish are returning to Ireland. Some simply want to raise their children there. Others leave to wait out the recession at home even though the joblessness rate is more than double the rate in the United States. In Ireland they can live with their families and collect unemployment benefits.
The illegal Irish community in New York City, estimated two years ago at 30,000, a third of the Irish living illegally in the United States, is going through other changes as well, as it is reshaped by a maturing population as well as the recession.
 
Irish Pubs in Trouble
 The most striking differences are in the changing neighborhood profiles. In traditional first-stop immigrant neighborhoods of Sunnyside and Woodside in Queens and Bainbridge Avenue in the Bronx, some of the Irish pubs that mushroomed and were revitalized during the illegal immigration boom of the mid-1980's are going out of business. In part, it is because few people have money to spend, but also because the carefree, hard-working, hard-playing partygoers have married, had children and moved to quieter, safer neighborhoods like Maspeth in Queens, Riverdale in the Bronx and Yonkers.
"Five years ago the bars were busy every night," said Debbie McGoldrick, the immigration columnist for The Irish Voice, one of the main Irish papers in the city. "Advertisement in The Irish Voice for pubs and restaurants has gone down from eight pages last year to four this year. An awful lot of people went back at Christmas. They are monitoring the situation from there. It's only a plane ride away."
Adrian Flannelly, president of WNWK, an Irish radio station that has live broadcasts in Ireland as well, said: "Some people have gone back, others have changed their life styles. They've fanned out of the neighborhoods. The pubs are in a recession. There are some areas that give the impression that people are on a vacation. And they are -- an extended vacation."
These types of changes are characteristic of the Irish in particular, a group that since their first wave of immigration 200 years ago has flowed back and forth from the home country and throughout the United States. "There's something in the Irish attitude that says, 'I belong in America,' " said Francis P. Vardy, senior demographer in the Department of City Planning who closely follows the Irish migration patterns. "They don't consider themselves foreigners. They consider the U.S. to be the 33d county of Ireland."
 
Construction Workers Suffer
 The most mobile within the community and the hardest hit by the recession are the construction workers. They follow their trade, many having left New York temporarily to work in France building EuroDisney, in England to build the tunnel under the English Channel and on construction sites as far away as Japan and South Africa. Many are planning to head to Florida, to help rebuild after the hurricane. Those who have remained often spend weeks between jobs.
The close-knit community is expected to change even more in the next few years as the lottery in permanent residency cards plays out. The lottery is a result of a 1990 law that gives preference to immigrants from 34 European countries to counter their underrepresentation during the last 26 years. In the next two years, it guarantees the Irish a total of 48,000 resident alien permits. It is the largest legal migration of Irish since 1965. The lottery's goal is to legalize Irish already in the United States. An estimated 75 percent of this year's winners already live in the United States, said James McIntire, Irish vice consul and immigration liaison officer. Although it is impossible to count New York's illegals, more than 60 percent of them have been absorbed in this drawing, experts estimate.
Next year's lottery rules have been changed, giving Irish in Ireland an equal chance at winning. Instead of accepting applications on a first-come, first-served basis as they did last year, creating mob scenes at a Virginia post office, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is accepting only one application per person chosen randomly by computer during a one-month drawing period that ended Aug. 28.
 
Bridging the Culture Gap
 At the Emerald Isle Immigration Center in Woodside, Martina Newe-Smith works in the newly created employment division. Part of her role is to bridge the gap between cultures, she says. For that purpose, Mrs. Newe-Smith has put together a pamphlet that teaches everything from resume writing to interview etiquette. She is flooded by requests for jobs, particularly by newly legalized Irish who want to find jobs that require their educational background. But many find themselves still in their old jobs.
"I know people who have come back with green cards, have college educations but find it financially more secure to do nannying or waitressing," Carol Philbin said.
Still, having a green card is not taken lightly.
"It's a feeling you can't describe," an older sister, Moira Philbin, said. "Until you actually go through immigration, you feel this is not happening. You look across at the other line and you think, never again will I wonder whether I can get in. And I felt nothing can stop me now."
Among those who remain, there is a tremendous drive to endure. Freda Grealy, 23, studied law in England and just took her bar exam. She works 62 hours a week, as a receptionist and a waitress, unable to find more professional work, but is far from discouraged. "My attitude is that this too shall pass," she said. "Just because you are legal, it doesn't open the golden gate."
 
One of the Lucky Ones
 The Philbin sisters and their brother represent the struggles and dreams of the new Irish-Americans. Moira Philbin, 27 years old, studied computer science in Galway, but in New York she worked as a dog walker, a house cleaner and a receptionist. She considers herself lucky. Many of her friends, out of jobs, have returned to Ireland.
Now she has found a job she likes at a Woodside travel agency, has moved to a new apartment and plans to go to school in January. For the first time, she will not have to work under an assumed name and will receive health insurance and other benefits.
Carol Philbin left Ireland just out of high school and despite her new legal status, has only been able to find baby-sitting jobs. She worked as a housekeeper for two and a half years and now plans to learn the art of makeup for disfigured people and hopes to go to college.
"I used to pray and cry a lot," Carol Philbin said. "I'm very optimistic. I have never consciously thought, 'What will I do if I can't get a job?' "
Their brother, Sean, whose wife is expecting their second child, is toying with the idea of returning to Ireland in the future to raise his children, Moira Philbin said.
"It's a different kettle of fish if you're out there on your own or if you have kids," Ms. Philbin said. "The difference in being legal is that now you know you can go for whatever you want. It's like a weight off your shoulders."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Moira Philbin, above, who immigrated to the United States from Ireland, life has been a series of jobs that were hard but attainable with a green card. For her sister, Carol, it has been harder. By the time she was picked in the lottery and received legal immigrant status, the jobs had disappeared. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IRISH-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS IMMIGRATION (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA; PHILBIN, CAROL; PHILBIN, MOIRA CAROL PHILBIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



316 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
President Bush outlined "a single program, a unified strategy" for reviving the economy. In a speech to business leaders in Detroit, he presented his philosophy as a broad mix of tax and spending cuts, expanded social programs and new free-trade pacts to lead the nation into the global economy. [Page A1.]
Up to 150,000 American jobs could be lost from the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico, according to Labor Secretary Lynn Martin. [D1.] 
 The United States was criticized by the International Monetary Fund for doing too little to cut its budget deficit. Tax increases, particularly on energy, were recommended. [D2.]
Clark M. Clifford's Federal bank fraud trial was postponed, allowing a New York trial to proceed first. But Mr. Clifford's poor health may prevent him from ever going to trial. [D1.]
The Senate killed legislation to reduce damages that manufacturers must pay to injured consumers in product liability suits. The Administration pushed the bill; Democrats opposed it. [D4.]
American businesses cut back on investment spending plans, a Government survey showed, and new claims for unemployment benefits rose slightly in late August. [D4.]
Silverado Savings's former chairman and chief executive, who had recruited Neil Bush, the President's son, as a Silverado director in 1985, was indicted on bank fraud charges. [D4.]
A California utility is hoping to replace power once generated by a nuclear reactor with energy from unconventional sources. [D1.]
Eleven large corporations and dozens of small companies will provide $25.4 million to support employee child care. [A26.]
 
International
Europeans are learning painful lessons about economic unity as the effort to link the continent's currencies has caused economic hardships in individual countries. [D1.]
Italy's prime minister asked for special economic powers as the lira's value came under increasing pressure. He also announced the sale of shares in state-owned enterprises. [D2.]
 
Companies
Exxon and Mobil will jointly bid on oil and gas exploration and production projects in Russia's West Siberian basin. [D3.]
Zenith Data Systems, a division of France's Groupe Bull, won a $740 million Air Force contract for desktop computers. [D3.]
Sony introduced its recordable disk music system, which it hopes will become the heir to its successful Walkman. [D3.]
Apple Computer's former chief operating officer will join Tektronix as president and chief operating officer. [D3.]
 
Markets
Stocks extended their rally with their sharpest gain in six weeks. The Dow average climbed 33.77 points, to 3,305.16. [D6.]
Bond prices were little changed in moderate trading. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 7.24 percent. [D12.]
The dollar rose after Britain's prime minister said he would not devalue the pound. Gold prices were mixed. [D13.]
Copper futures plunged amid weak demand in the Far East and sluggish business activity in the West. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
Signs of a retreat by small investors hurt many brokerage stocks, but some analysts say the pullback of individual buyers has bottomed out. Market Place. [D6.]
A new Bergdorf Goodman advertising campaign uses humor to try to give the retailer's fashionable men's store a less intimidating image. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (81%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS SA (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS GMBH (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ITALIA SPA (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ESPANA SA (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS EUROPE (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS IRELAND LTD (52%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FUTURES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); DEVALUATION (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); LITIGATION (74%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); COPPER INDUSTRY (64%); BOND MARKETS (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (61%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (60%); COPPER MARKETS (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



317 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3900 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK'S SENATE RACE;
4 Senate Challengers: Excerpts From the Democrats' Debate

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from last night's Democratic Senate debate, as transcribed by The New York Times:
 
Taxes and the Middle Class
 Q Considering the state of the economy, are there any circumstances under which you would agree to a tax increase on middle-class working Americans? 
 FERRARO What's happened over the last 10 years has been that the middle class are paying a higher percentage of their income in taxes than they did in 1981, and the wealthier are paying a smaller percentage. What I favor is a surtax on those people making over $200,000 a year and a tax break for the middle class. It's not going to do very much for the budget one way or the other, but what it will do is it will lead to tax fairness. . . .
HOLTZMAN I think you have to be very concerned about tax increases at this time, even though theoretically they might be necessary for purposes of fairness or tax equity, because our economy is in a very precarious situation and tax increases could spin it in the wrong way. I bring some very special credentials to this race for the United States Senate. I was on the House Budget Committee for five years; as Comptroller of New York City I've been dealing with the Federal and the local economy. I think there's lots we can do to solve the problem of our economy and our deficit, and that doesn't include tax increases.
ABRAMS I don't favor tax increases on people of New York, or this country, at this time. And I think we're at a unique moment in time when we should be slashing the defense budget by 50 percent by the end of the decade. That's what separates me from my major opponent in this primary, Geraldine Ferraro. She's almost like George Bush; she only wants to take advantage of $100 billion cuts over the next five years. I want $282 billion cuts so that we don't have to raise taxes on middle-income people.
SHARPTON To directly answer your question, there's no circumstance that I would vote for a tax increase on the middle class or poor people. I think that was your question. I think that what I would be advocating is, again, for the rich to begin paying their fair share of taxes. It is incredible to me that we can talk about going into the military budget and other things, which I'm clearly in favor of, but no one wants to deal with the fact that the rich have gotten away like bandits. They have been on welfare for the last 12 years.
 
The Death Penalty
 Q Now, over to the death penalty discussion.
FERRARO I took the position on the death penalty when I was Assistant D.A. and feel very strongly that there are times when it is appropriate punishment. I would be very, very careful and there is -- you know, when you're -- when you're practicing law you are able to determine whether or not a person is actually not beyond a reasonable doubt but beyond any doubt guilty of a crime. I would have a bifurcated sentencing hearing.
But in addition to that, let me tell you that it would only be where a person has taken someone else's life and the only way I could demonstrate what I'm talking about is a situation, for instance, with the Richard Dahmer [apparently referring to Jeffrey Dahmer]. Here's a man who committed the worst kind of crime, a bias crime. All his victims were minority. All of them were picked because they were gay. Here he killed 15 people. He goes to plead guilty to his 16th: what does he get? A 16th life term or one for nothing?
ABRAMS Well, it's interesting because I think Gerry wants to get it both ways. She wants to get the popularity of the death penalty from most of the population who legitimately feels insecure about rising crime. But yet seeks to minimize its application and uses it as a major theme of a commercial. And I'm troubled by all of that.
Let me also now correct Reverend Sharpton. . . . I had the record number of hires of African-Americans in my office, two consecutive solicitor generals, heads of bureaus, heads of regional offices, section chiefs, line assistants, all across this state. It's an unparalleled record of appointment of minority people including those from the American-American community.
SHARPTON Certainly I think the death penalty is wrong under any circumstance. I think, as everyone has said, it has been used racially. I think that I would oppose it under any circumstance because it is not used in a fair manner. A, it has not been proven as a deterrent to crime. B, and what do you do when you have the situations that have occurred many a times when you found out later you were wrong? We cannot give a person his life back or her life back.
So I think that we could never support the death penalty and I would take issue in our studies and other studies of both the Attorney General's office and the Brooklyn D.A.'s office of the positions that they've appointed. They have hired a lot of blacks . . . the levels is what I'm questioning.
HOLTZMAN First I'd like to correct the record. Mr. Sharpton has misstated that. First of all I'm very proud of the fact that when I was District Attorney of Brooklyn, we appointed African-Americans to the highest positions in the offices, executive assistant as well as bureau chiefs. We had Latinos in the same position.
In addition to that let me respond on the death penalty. . . . The system makes mistakes. I was a chief law-enforcement officer in one of the biggest jurisdictions in this country. There are other ways to fight crime. We can do something about banning handguns. We can do something to stop the importation of drugs into this country. We can do something about drug treatment programs. We can have better sentencing programs and we -- and if I'm elected to the U.S. Senate, we'll do something about the judges we have sitting on the U.S. Supreme Court.
FERRARO Yeah, because one of the things that Bob has indicated is, well two things, that I have taken a position on the death penalty for the purpose of this election, which I did not. I took it when I was in the D.A.'s office. He said it is a major theme of my commercial. I'm sorry that you missed the point of the commercial. The point of the commercial was to point out, is that I am strongly in favor of gun control and that I have law-enforcement endorsements based upon my integrity and honesty from one end of the state to the other.
But the third thing is in a primary in New York State, in a very liberal primary in which it is, this Democratic primary, this is the unpopular political position. It's just that I'm strong enough to take an unpopular position when I believe it's right.
 
Universal Health Care
 Q Now we're going to talk about health care. Health care is a concern for most of us. All of you support some type of universal health care that would cover all America. Would you support a plan that rations medical care to get a universal health care plan out there?
FERRARO Well I don't support the single payer plan, which is Oregon's plan, precisely because it would ration care and because people would not be allowed to pick their own doctors. It would create a whole new bureaucracy. It would require a tax increase by people. I support what's called a pay or play system, which is the proposal that is supported by Bill Clinton and Al Gore. It is a plan that will move immediately within the first 100 days. We're going to get national health care coverage in this country. We'll cover the 2.2 million people in this state who are uninsured.
SHARPTON I would support the Russo Bill. I think that we are in a disgraceful position of being the only industrialized nation in the world, other than South Africa, that does not have a national health plan for its citizens. The thing I would add, though, to the Russo Bill is putting a ceiling on medical costs. It is absolutely outrageous how medical costs are going up higher and higher. There needs to be a ceiling put on that, as these medical companies are making billions of dollars and as older people are not being able to afford that, and we need to have a universal health payer plan or for every individual in this country. We make enough money as a nation to guarantee that when nations much poorer can do that for its citizens.
HOLTZMAN Well the present system doesn't work. Something is terribly wrong when an individual goes into a doctor's office and the first question is how are you going to pay the bill. Not what's wrong with you. That has to change. If they can have universal health care in France, Germany, Scandinavia, Japan, Australia and Canada we can do it here. I believe we need to have universal health care, I believe in the single payer system. We can do it. That's one of the areas I differ with Geraldine Ferraro. . . .
ABRAMS Geraldine Ferraro's answer to this question shows a fundamental difference between herself and myself. I believe that the present health care system is very sick and I'm not willing to put a little Band-Aid on it. It needs major surgery. We've got to go to a single payer health insurance plan that's administered at the Federal level. That guarantees every New Yorker and every American freedom of choice. You go to the doctor, or dentist, or nursing home of your choice. You get it as a matter of right. And as you move in this direction you actually save money, and that's not Bob Abrams saying that, that's the Government Accounting Office, the independent arm of the Congress. You save $70 billion by moving in that direction. . . .
 
Personal Ethics and Character
 Q Ms. Ferraro, questions of character and ethics have become major issues in this campaign with allegations of impropriety being leveled at every single one of you. Do the character questions undermine you as a candidate against Republican Alfonse D'Amato?
FERRARO I don't think so. And this week, this month, has been horrendous, where both of my opponents who are sitting here today, Liz and Bobby, have been attempting to tear me down significantly. Let me say to you that when we deal with issues of ethics in 1984 during the course of that campaign ethical questions were raised about my filings for the, with the Federal Government. They found 10 technical violations, found I did not do anything deliberately and we amended the returns and that was that.
But if you take a look at really what's going on in this state and what Al D'Amato's problems are. Al D'Amato's problems are that he is taking contributions from people with whom he has done business as a Senator. Both Bob Abrams and Liz Holtzman have been criticized for doing the same thing: taking money. In fact, they currently are being criticized for taking money now in this Senate race: Bob, from people who are doing business with the Attorney General's office, and Liz, from people who are doing business with the Comptroller's office. . . . Take a look at my contributors. We have 63,000 contributors. The average contribution is $35. The people of this state own me.
HOLTZMAN Well, I think that there are very serious allegations that have been raised about Geraldine Ferraro and they were raised initially in The Village Voice and in Newsday. And the allegations were that Gerry, during the 1984 Vice-Presidential race, you promised the people of the United States that a child pornographer tenant in the building you co-manage would be evicted once the lease was up. But when the lease was up, they weren't evicted. You raised the rent. And you allowed them to stay for almost three years. Child pornographers: what is that? These are people who make money out of the pain and suffering of children. Gerry, why didn't you get them out right away? . . . How could you have taken the money? You should answer these questions. You've said, What could I do about it. Let me tell you ----
Q Let's move along.
HOLTZMAN When I was District Attorney and I . . .
Q Let's move along, let's move along. You'll have time. You'll have time. We go now to Bob Abrams . . .
ABRAMS Gerry says that I've sought to tear her down. I mean, Gerry, I haven't torn you down in terms of things that we're talking about. In 1984, you violated the Federal Election Law and you were fined as a result of that. You took illegal contributions. That wasn't me, that was the Federal Elections Campaign Commission appointed by the President of the United States, a bipartisan body. Four years later in 1984, you were found guilty of 10 ethics violations -- not by me, I didn't raise that issue for the first time -- by your own colleagues, your own colleagues on the House Ethics Committee.
And in terms of what you're now saying about me, I run my office in a highly professional and ethical manner. There's a Chinese wall between anything that is done by a campaign committee in any campaign in which I am engaged in, and a Chinese strong wall separating between the government office and the campaign office. So there is total integrity of the operations of the campaign.
SHARPTON I'm amazed at how cozy everyone indicts each other here. But anyway, I think clearly ethics is a serious issue. However, I think it needs to be in perspective -- ethics among the issues that will solve our problems. I am, again, the poorest candidate here, but if I had millions, I wouldn't have spent millions of dollars just attacking the character of my opponents. I would have spent those millions talking about health care, I would have spent those millions talking about the fact that we don't have jobs.
On top of that, I think there are serious ethical questions that have to be answered. Yes, again, as being a minority here, most of mine goes to court where theirs goes to newspapers. But I think Ms. Ferraro should answer about the lease. I also think Ms. Holtzman should answer about the comptroller policy to stop dealing with the First Bank of Boston because of South African ties. And Newsday said after a year that was going on and those executives from First Boston are donating to her campaign. I think a lot of ethical questions should be answered.
FERRARO Let me start first with -- let me start with Bob first.
Q This is a minute now, remember.
FERRARO Well, you know, I got three different charges here so give me a minute per charge and you're O.K.
Q No, no.
FERRARO He said I violated the law and I took illegal contributions in 1984. That is not so. I think what you got to do, Bob, is learn the facts. My campaign committee in 1978 took $138,000 from my children and my husband, which was the law before 1978. I reported it to the F.E.C.; they fined my committee $500. That was that.
The ethics violations in 1984: I talked about those, we amended the returns. Those were -- those were not a big deal, we amended them. But let me go further. When you talk about what you've done, the Feerick Commission has said to you that you should not take campaign contributions from people who are doing business with your agency. You are currently in contempt of that decision by the Feerick Commission, which criticized you for doing it, taking money from lawyers who are doing things, who have condo conversions and co-op conversions. And I've heard your campaign manager, or one of your handlers, say that the reason you're doing it is because this is a Senate race and not the Attorney General. At the very best, you will still be Attorney General until December and there's still business before that . . .
ABRAMS Well, Gerry Ferraro says it's not a big deal about the 10 ethics violations. The House Ethics Committee issued an 800-page report, the official document of the House of Representatives that constituted the report on those violations. Maybe it's not a big deal to you, but I think that's ----
FERRARO Do you know what kind of violations they were?
Q Ms. Ferraro, wait a minute.
FERRARO Do you know what kind of violations they were?
ABRAMS I know what they were.
FERRARO Well, tell us what they were, Bob. Tell that to the public because I think we're entitled to know precisely what they were.
ABRAMS You did not fully disclose all the -- --
FERRARO But what, tell us what?
ABRAMS All the information that was required under the rules of the House concerning financial matters that you had?
FERRARO Could you be specific for the people of this state?
ABRAMS And disclosure. And, Gerry, there was the violation of the campaign finance law for the Federal Elections Commission.
FERRARO What year was that, Bob?
ABRAMS That was -- maybe I misspoke before, it was ----
FERRARO You did, you did.
ABRAMS It was 1978. So you said it was ----
FERRARO It was the committee, it wasn't me.
ABRAMS It was '78 to '80?
FERRARO The committee . . . 

 	 	 		. . .	 	Liz said why don't we move these people out. I think I've tried to explain it, and I assume that as an attorney you know the landlord and tenant law in this state, and specifically in this city. We had immediately -- and it was not I, it was my husband and his partner -- had gone to the landlord and attempted to raise the rents -- which The Daily News said that's the way you get people out here, in their editorial, as you know.
Q Let's move quickly, Ms. Ferraro.
FERRARO We tried to do that, raised the rent in order to get them out. When that didn't work they went to court. It took two years. These people, Liz, were tenants storing magazines. You have walked around saying it was child pornography. If indeed it was child pornography, when a search warrant was issued they would have been arrested and the material confiscated. But secondly, I take second place to no one on the issue of child abuse or anything else. . . .
When I was in the D.A.'s office, I was the child-abuse expert in Queens County.
HOLTZMAN Gerry, the fact of the matter is that when the Federal authorities broke down the door of these premises and if you'd look at the search warrant -- I'd be happy to give you a copy of it -- you could see from the titles of the, of the publications seized that it was child pornography.
FERRARO Was anybody arrested?
HOLTZMAN I don't know whether anybody was arrested.
FERRARO No, they were not! . . .
HOLTZMAN Why was -- and you haven't answered this question -- why it was they weren't told to get out right away? You've told -- you've said that you wanted to give them more time.
FERRARO Oh no, Liz, I ----
HOLTZMAN How do you have room in your -- --
FERRARO I have not . . .
HOLTZMAN You were quoted. You said you raised the rent. That's not a way. Nobody -- I don't care whether The Daily News says it's appropriate or not. It's not the way . . .
FERRARO How do you deal with it?
HOLTZMAN How do you do it, Gerry?
FERRARO Yeah, you tell me.
HOLTZMAN That's good. Because that's why we need someone in the U.S. Senate who doesn't need to be told how to get rid of a child pornographer.
FERRARO You tell us how.
HOLTZMAN What you need in the U.S. Senate is someone who'll go there and fight. I'll tell you how you do it. You tell them. You serve a notice of eviction before they're out. Beyond that, you go and you say to them 'Get out.' Those are two English words. They were never told to get out. On top of that, on top of that . . .
Q Ladies, ladies. Ms. Holtzman. Ms. Ferraro. Ms. Holtzman. Ms. Ferraro. I do hate to interrupt. We're responding enough . . .
 
The Closing Statements:

FERRARO This campaign, folks, is not about Gerry Ferraro as some shadowy character who's involved with organized crime, as Liz and Bobby would have you think. It's because they're afraid that if they talk to the issues they're going to lose this race to me. What it's about, it's about the Gerry Ferraro who has been teacher, who grew up in a single head of household, who knows about scholarship, who worries about making it ends meet. Also about Gerry Ferraro, wife and mother, who's been through some tough time. But understand that when things get tough you hold together and you help each other along. I think that's what the family of New York also needs; we need to hang together, we need to take a little bit more care of each other.
I intend to go down to Washington to fight for the things we care about, for jobs, for education, for health care. To making this a better world for our kids, for your future, for my future, for the people of this state, and I really need your help next Tuesday.
ABRAMS When I was growing up in the Bronx I worked in my dad's candy store. We were very close. I learned a lot from him. I remember one of the things he told me was that as I went on in life I'd have to engage in a lot of battles in terms of what I believed in. If I really had principles I'd have to go out and fight for them, and sometimes there'd be a lot of powerful adversaries and forces on the other side. I learned that early on . . . 

 	 	 		. . .	 	And now I've got the chance to go to Washington, to engage in a new fight and struggle for national health insurance for the people of this state and this country. What I believe should be a fundamental right of every citizen. I want to go down to Washington and shake things up and not be like Gerry Ferraro with little tiny cuts. I want to take advantage of the end of the cold war and cut hundreds of billions of dollars from that defense budget while still being strong, but investing that money in the education of our kids . . .
HOLTZMAN I'm running for the United States Senate not to join the Senate but to change the Senate. I've fought for change my whole life. When I was a young law student I went down South, worked for a black civil rights attorney, fought the system of segregation. When I was in Congress and the House Judiciary Committee during impeachment I fought to protect the country's rule of law from a President who would violate it. When I was District Attorney I changed the rape laws of this state that demeaned women. And as Comptroller of New York City, I've changed the system so that we can invest money safely in the creation of affordable housing and creating jobs.
I want to take this commitment to change to go to the U.S. Senate so that we can have a Freedom of Choice Act that protects the right of women to choose. So that we can create jobs for this economy and put people back to work. So that we can have national health care and deal with the health care needs of the people of this country . . .
SHARPTON If one is looking for a fighter, someone to shake up Washington, unquestionably I'm the one on this panel. Everyone that sits around this panel has already served a public life. They will not make any more noise in Washington than they've already made. They will not have some thunderbolt hit them on the shuttle that has not hit them where they presently are. They want to advance their careers. I want to advance our community. I have fought all my life for what I believe, even at the cost of my own life. I want to go to Senate because I want to see common people represented. I want to see common problems solved, I want to see legislations that solve our problems.
Secondly, I want to show young people out of the projects that I've spent in this campaign, out of farms in Sullivan County, that it doesn't matter where you come from in life; it matters where you're going. You can be more than a hoodlum or drug dealer. You can be a Senator . . .

GRAPHIC: Photos of Robert Abrams, Al Sharpton, Elizabeth Holtzman (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) and Geraldine Ferraro. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC SENATE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC SENATE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (61%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); FERRARO, GERALDINE A; SHARPTON, AL (REV); HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER) AL SHARPTON (63%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



318 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: A Utility's Strategy for Life in a Nonnuclear Age

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.

 BODY:
When the voters here decided in 1989 to close the nuclear plant operated by their public utility, many wondered what would replace it. Rancho Seco ran only fitfully, but its generating capacity was half of the total for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District and could meet the needs of all 457,000 customers in Sacramento County if the weather was not too hot.
Three years later the substitutes are beginning to emerge, some literally from the woodwork. Dark wooden roofs are being painted white to reflect the sun and thus lower buildings' air-conditioning burdens. A utility storage yard is filling up with thousands of scrapped refrigerators, as the district pays its customers up to $275 to buy new ones that use 75 percent less power. While the district will use conventional power sources for the near future, in the next few years scores of windmills will sprout on hilltops. 
 The district is also helping finance research in a dozen more exotic technologies it hopes will be practical later this decade. They include two kinds of solar power and three ways to tap the heat of the earth's core, fuel gas from garbage composting and power from fuel cells like the ones used by the Apollo astronauts.
 
An Industry Leader
 After years of putting all the eggs in one nuclear basket, the utility is now building a basket for each egg, confident that enough will hatch.
"What we're doing here ought to give people the courage of their convictions," said S. David Freeman, the district's general manager, referring to the assertions of many nuclear opponents around the country that the technology, apart from its safety worries, is not cost-effective. "There is life after nuclear power," he said.
In finding a post-nuclear future, SMUD, as the district is known, is not alone, only first. Rancho Seco was the first reactor retired by referendum, but so far this year, the owners of four other plants have either retired them prematurely or said that they would soon do so.
"What SMUD is doing, every utility in the United States with nuclear exposure will have to do," said Ralph Cavanagh, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council in San Francisco, who frequently testifies before utility regulators.
While it is too early to determine how these alternative sources will affect rates over the longer term, the management is confident, and so far, it has been right; closing the reactor, investing in conservation and buying power made from conventional sources has allowed the district to stabilize rates.
Because of ever-stricter environmental requirements, nuclear's traditional competitor, coal, which is burned to generate about 55 percent of the nation's electricity, is not an automatic choice. In California, in fact, it is virtually an impossibility. Natural gas will fill part of the short-term need, but utilities are worried that the supply glut that has kept natural gas prices low will not continue forever, and environmentalists are pushing for something still cleaner.
So in the short run, the district will build co-generation plants, which burn natural gas to make steam for electricity and then re-use the steam for industrial purposes. Until these are built, it will buy power from neighboring utilities that is available more cheaply than it was from the reactor. The longer-term plan is a mix of conservation and renewables.
The utility will invest in energy efficiency wherever the cost of saving a kilowatt-hour is 4 cents or less. (A kilowatt-hour, which would keep 10 light bulbs of 100 watts each lighted for an hour, costs residential consumers here about 8 cents.)
The district is now spending more than 6 percent of its revenues on conservation, the highest proportion of any utility in the United States. The money goes for everything from the rebates on refrigerators to the salaries of home inspectors, who, with customers' approval, install energy-saving devices in homes. The district's pursuit of renewables, including sun and wind, also appears to be among the largest, on a proportional basis -- and perhaps the most varied.
 
'Nobody's Mad at Us'
 The wisdom of the utility's path will not be completely clear for years to come. But so far, so good. California's current power surplus means that the wholesale price of power on the open market is low, and the district's rates, which jumped from 2 cents a kilowatt-hour, to 8 cents, to pay for nuclear repairs, have stabilized. Customers are more satisfied, and the threat of takeover by an investor-owned utility, which once seemed serious, has receded.
It has also gained points with its customers. "The proof of it is that nobody comes to our board meetings any more; nobody's mad at us," Mr. Freeman said.
The company's surveys show overwhelming approval of the utility since the Rancho Seco plant was shut, as did a reporter's sampling of customers' opinions at the district's headquarters recently.
"I personally just didn't like nuclear plants; I'm glad they shut the plant," said Lisa Byrd, who noted that rates had stabilized but said she was willing to pay more. Maddie Walker was less sure about closing Rancho Seco. "We have to get the energy from somewhere," she said. The district has made some other bets that seem sure, if slow, to pay off. It has planted 30,000 shade trees in the last two years on the south side of buildings in the county. In another eight years or so, the trees should begin to lower the demand for air-conditioning.
The co-generation plants are also likely to be successful. As long as the price of natural gas stays low, the price of the power these plants produce will be less than power from the nuclear plant. Rancho Seco was only able to operate about 50 percent of the time because of breakdowns.
Without the distraction of the nuclear plant, executives say, there is time to try other technologies. Adjacent to Rancho Seco is a two-megawatt installation of photovoltaic cells, which make electricity directly from sunlight.
The shape of the district's long-term supply is not so clear. "We have quite a bit of confidence that many of these technologies will operate," said Larry A. Wittrup, the utility's manager of generation planning. "Whether they will come in on an economic basis is another question."
Still, he and others here say the new technologies will never reach commercialization unless someone nurtures them through the early stages. And without a strong national commitment to technologies other than nuclear power, they say, it is up to companies like the Sacramento Municipal Utility District to contribute to joint research and to experiment on its system.
The district has not yet sorted out what works from what does not, Mr. Freeman acknowledged, but "we're feeling pretty good about the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The post nuclear-power era for Sacramento, Calif., encompasses a number of alternative sources, including solar power. The world's largest array of photovoltaic panels has been placed near the idle Rancho Seco plant. (Matthew L. Wald/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Utilities Investing In Efficiency" shows percent of utilities' 1991 revenues investing in increasing efficiency (Source: Natural Resources Defense Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RANCHO SECO NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (CALIF) SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT (58%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RANCHO SECO NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (CALIF) NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SACRAMENTO (CALIF) UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); EARTH (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; RESEARCH NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (74%); NATURAL GAS (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); WASTE REDUCTION (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



319 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Urges U.S. to Lift Taxes and Slash Deficit

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund's executive board criticized the United States today for doing too little to cut its budget deficit and said that tax increases would be needed.
Coming one day after President Bush vowed never again to agree to raise taxes, the fund's annual report "stressed the importance of fully exploiting the window of opportunity immediately after the elections" to make progress in cutting the deficit. 
 Members of the board bluntly asserted that the United States deficit was slowing long-term growth. While saying that deficit reduction should focus on spending cuts, they urged higher taxes on gasoline and on energy use in general, which they said would raise revenues while promoting conservation and lower pollution.
The report said that the world's economic output declined by three-tenths of 1 percent last year, pulled down by declining consumer confidence, especially in the United States. The economic performance last year, one of the worst years for the global economy since World War II, was hurt by recessions in the United States, Canada and Britain as well as the plunge in output in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics.
 
Improving Confidence
 The fund's directors, a number of whom serve in their nations' finance ministries, said putting together a credible package to cut the deficit could go far to improve confidence among businesses and consumers. Although cutting spending or raising taxes could be a drag on the economy, the directors said the increase in confidence resulting from a deficit plan likely would lead to an increase in demand that would considerably offset any negative short-term impact.
A Treasury spokesman said, "The United States realizes the importance of reducing the budget deficit, but an increase in taxes would be counterproductive and damaging both to growth and deficit reduction efforts."
In recent years, the monetary fund, a group of 169 nations that oversees the international economic system and provides loans to struggling nations, has often called on the United States and other industrial countries to reduce their deficits. While the fund has the power of moral suasion, the wealthy nations often ignore its advice. In contrast, poor countries that agree to monetary fund reform programs often have their I.M.F. loans cut off if they fail to follow the fund's recommendations.
Deficit reduction in the United States, the fund said, was important for making more money available for private investment and hence productivity growth.
Saying that budget deficits were weighing on world growth, the I.M.F. added that Italy, Canada and other countries as well as the United States should cut their deficits to help meet the growing demand for investment money from the former Soviet bloc and many developing countries.
The monetary fund pointedly criticized Germany, urging it to reduce subsidies to farmers and coal mines to cut its budget deficit. Germany's central bank has jacked up short-term rates to 9.75 percent to offset the inflationary pressures caused by hefty wage settlements and a large budget deficit, which is a result of the cost of unification.
Fund officials took pains not to criticize Germany's central bank, indicating that they sympathized with what it was doing, given the inflationary pressures Germany faces.
According to the report, the industrialized world grew by eight-tenths of 1 percent last year, although output in the United States fell by seven tenths of 1 percent. Far worse was the 16.9 percent drop in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, which have taken painful actions to establish market economies.
The monetary fund's staff forecast "a more sustained recovery in 1992 and in 1993" for the industrialized world in light of lower interest rates in North America and Japan, less household and business debt, and stronger economic performance in many developing countries.
With many Russians saying their central bank's strict monetary policy was pushing the nation to the breaking point, the monetary fund's board urged Russia's "authorities to withstand pressures to relax monetary policies." The fund also urged Moscow to adopt a strong policy to prevent "excessive wage growth, particularly in the state enterprise sector."
When the industrial world catches cold, the developing world usually catches pneumonia, but this was not the case last year, when the developing world grew by 3.3 percent. The third world was buoyed by strong growth in China, South Korea, Thailand and other developing countries in Asia as well as a turnaround in Latin America, where many governments have initiated economic reforms that have lifted growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GASOLINE (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); WORLD WAR II (52%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



320 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Businesses Cut Back On Capital Spending Plans

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
American businesses cut back on already modest plans for investment spending this year, the Government said today in a report reflecting renewed pessimism about the economy.
Businesses surveyed during July and August told the Commerce Department that they would spend $551 billion on new plants and equipment this year, a 4.3 percent increase from 1991, but a 4.7 percent decrease from what was projected in April and May and a 5.4 percent decrease from what was planned last year. 
 Meanwhile, a report from the Labor Department showed that new claims for unemployment benefits rose slightly in late August for the second consecutive week. The increase of 8,000 claims, to 394,000, during the week ended Aug. 29 reflected a stagnant job market, analysts said.
The Labor Department also cautioned that recent claims numbers were probably held down artificially by legislation allowing some claimants to file under a special emergency unemployment program. Those claims are not counted in the usual weekly release.
"Manufacturers and businesses generally are still scared," said David Wyss, an economist at DRI-McGraw Hill in Lexington, Mass. "They don't see a big increase in demand coming. So, as a result, they are not anxious to hire and they are not anxious to do anything permanent, and big investment is very permanent."
The increase in investment spending this year, if realized, would follow an eight-tenths of 1 percent decline in 1991, only the fourth drop in 33 years. Spending rose a moderate 5 percent in 1990 after shooting up 11.4 percent in 1989 and 10.6 percent in 1988.
But the economist Stephen S. Roach of Morgan Stanley & Company in New York said he had expected an even greater reduction, given the economy's sluggishness.
 
One Optimistic Analyst
 "I take heart from the fact that businesses in 1992 are still planning a 4.3 percent increase," Mr. Roach said. "Capital spending should play a key role in driving this economy during the next several years, and this survey is reasonably supportive of the belief that that's what's going to happen."
But, at least for now, most manufacturing companies have little incentive to increase their capacity. Despite modest increases in new orders this year, they have reduced backlogs of unfilled orders for 11 consecutive months. Factories operated at 77.6 percent of capacity in July, well below the 1989 peak of 85.1 percent.
Most of the planned investment increase this year is in aircraft manufacturing, where a 17.7 percent increase is expected, as well as nondurable goods manufacturing, like textiles, chemicals and rubber. Durable goods factories, which make items like autos and appliances that are expected to last more than three years, plan a 2.5 percent drop in investment spending.
When adjusted for inflation, overall capital spending was projected to increase 5.8 percent in 1992 after a 1.6 percent drop in 1991.
The four-week moving average of jobless claims, which smooths out the fluctuations of the weekly reports, fell to 409,250 in the latest period, down from 411,500 in the preceding period. It was the lowest since June 6, when it was 406,250.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (66%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (67%); EMPLOYMENT (55%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN S ROACH (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



321 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Yield on 30-Year Bond Remains 7.24%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The prices of bond and notes bounced around yesterday but did not change that much on the day. Trading was moderate, and many investors were waiting to see what President Bush would say in an important economic speech in Detroit and in a five-minute paid television broadcast last night.
In late trading in the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 7.25 percent 30-year bond was offered at 1003/32 , up 5/32 to yield 7.24 percent, the same as Wednesday's yield. 
 The price of the current five-year note, however, fell 2/32 to yield 5.25 percent, compared with 5.24 percent Wednesday. The discount rates on Treasury bills also fell slightly.
Although the market has been uncertain for the last two days, it is still trading on a base of solid support, as the economy continues to move ahead only sluggishly and inflation remains low. These positive fundamentals have already pushed yields down to levels not seen in years, and only very little of that gain has been lost in the last two days.
 
Political Repercussions
 But sometime soon, investors and speculators will have to begin paying more attention to the Presidential election and what a Clinton or Bush victory will portend for the bond market.
Investors got a little taste of that yesterday as they waited for the release of Mr. Bush's speech to the Detroit Economic Club, in which he said that if Congress approved his spending cuts he could propose a 1 percent across-the-board tax cut. Investors seemed to react negatively at first, possibly because a tax cut might imply that the deficit would get larger. But later, investors seemed to shrug off the Bush proposal.
"When people realized it was basically the same thing that he said at the convention, people saw the decline as an opportunity to get back into the market," said Michael H. Strauss, chief economist at Yamaichi International (America) in New York.
 
Responding to News Reports
 There were also other bits of new information to react to during the day, which pushed the market up and down. The Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment benefits rose by 8,000, to 394,000, during the week ended Aug. 29. The report was generally in line with expectations.
There was also news of an apparent violation of the the no-fly zone in Iraq by an Iraqi fighter plane, which traders said might have helped push the dollar higher and provided a little lift for the market.
At the end of they day there was yet another surprise in the Federal Reserve money-supply figures. In the week that ended Aug. 31, M-2 -- a measurement that includes currency, checking accounts and savings accounts -- jumped $7 billion, far more than many forecasters expected. But some analysts immediately played down the increase, saying it reflected the heavy pace of consumer refinancing of home mortgages to take advantage of lower interest rates. The jump in the money supply could be negative for the bond market if it indicated a stronger economy than is now expected.
 
Corporate Issues
 About $8 billion in new corporate borrowing has flooded the market this week and indications are that investors are being a bit choosy in what they are buying. This means that the yields on some of the deals, which have been at relatively narrow spreads over their counterpart Treasury securities, will have to widen a bit.
"The after-market spread performance of a number of these transactions is doing nothing else to the customer base but telling them that they can be more selective," said James B. Quigley, a managing director of the syndicate desk at Merrill Lynch & Company.
Some traders have suggested that the firms that are underwriting many of the new issues are pricing them very aggressively, partly in an effort to guarantee themselves a good share of the business in the important rankings of market share that are closely watched in this very competitive industry.
Mr. Quigley said that in trading yesterday corporate spreads were unchanged to a little weaker. He did not say that the corporate market was in trouble but that it would take a widening of a few basis points in the yields of many of the new issues to get them sold to retail or large institutional investors. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 5/92 to 9/92 (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT YAMAICHI INTERNATIONAL (AMERICA) INC (52%); DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CURRENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



322 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Small Investors Stepping Aside?

BYLINE: By Susan Antilla

 BODY:
SIGNS of a retreat by small investors led to much wringing of hands yesterday on Wall Street, where some brokerage stocks took a nasty hit. The selling was prompted by an announcement by Charles Schwab & Company, the discount broker, that said late Wednesday that business had fallen to an average of 18,000 trades a day recently, down from boom levels of 32,300 in January.
Schwab shares were down as much as $4.25, to $18.25, in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, though they rebounded to close down $2.625 at $19.875. The shares of Quick & Reilly Group Inc., another discount broker, were also down, falling 62.5 cents, to $19.375, on the Big Board. 
In an hourlong telephone conference with securities analysts yesterday, Schwab management said that individual investors were feeling jittery about the wobbly economy and the uncertain political environment. "We find customers are very perplexed and are just not trading," said John Gambs, chief financial officer at Schwab.
Competitors at competing discount brokerage firms echoed Mr. Gambs's assessment. "There are days when we're down 40 percent from the first quarter," said Muriel Siebert of Muriel Siebert & Company.
The gloomy news for the discounters contaminated shares of larger full-service brokerage houses, too. Paine Webber, Morgan Stanley and American Express, owner of Shearson Lehman Brothers, also suffered losses yesterday. Merrill Lynch shares rebounded from an early decline after the firm released a statement touting the advantages of its full-service "counsel and advice" to clients. Merrill and other full-service firms took the opportunity yesterday to boast that they were diversified and not so dependent on stock transaction business. Merrill said its customers were not suffering the "investor confusion" of certain competitors, but did not offer any data to back up its contention.
Key to the concern over the cooling of small- investor enthusiasm is the question of how enduring the retreat will be. Pessimists say small investors are headed for an extended hibernation, but several optimists say the pullback is temporary in the face of current economic and political worries.
Individual investors were largely out of the stock market through the entire 1980's boom, said Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates. But in 1991, a reversal took place, he contends.
Small investors, as measured by "odd lot" trading of under 100 shares, were net sellers in all but 18 trading days from 1980 to 1990, Mr. Birinyi said. But in 1991, he said, odd lot traders were net buyers in 95 of the year's trading days. Through the end of August those small investors were net buyers on 108 days.
Such statistics support those who often predict -- with accuracy -- that markets will fall when the public comes in. But Mr. Birinyi makes a case that this shift to net buying by small investors will not be easily stopped. "You want to pay attention to them because they're making a secular change," he said. "The public en masse has come back, and when it's of this persistence and of such magnitude, I wouldn't want to short into them."
In sufficient numbers, Mr. Birinyi said, small investors can be the marginal buyers that keep a bullish trend in place.
If market analysts had not been so distracted by takeover fever back in 1986, they might have noticed that 95 percent of trading in the Dow Jones industrial average took place in the first and last 15 minutes of the trading day, according to Mr. Birinyi's statistics. He said that those marginal buyers were mostly foreigners, coming in at the start and end of their trading days.
Today, individual investors can provide similar marginal impetus, Mr. Birinyi added. "I don't think they came back to stocks for a quick trip," he said.
The decline in trading levels at the discount brokerage firms "could well just be digestion" as brokers and clients adjust to the trend, he said.
In the view of John Markese, director of research at the American Association of Individual Investors in Chicago, the drop in small-investor activity is nothing more than "a plateau after a tremendous surge in activity."
Mr. Markese said the loss of business at the discount brokers did not come as any surprise to him: the most recent sampling of the association's 136,000 members found the weakest enthusiasm for stocks since it began polling members in 1987.
For the moment, small-investor activity is weak because most of those who would be motivated to switch to stocks in the face of falling interest rates have already done so, Mr. Markese said. Making things worse, he added, are the uncertain political and economic conditions.
"But I don't think it's a long-term trend down," he said, noting that small investors do seem more committed to owning stocks than they have been in years. Mr. Markese should know. His group's membership has risen to 136,000 so far this year, up from 117,000 at the end of 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: SIEB (NASDAQ) (68%); MS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SCHWAB, CHARLES, & CO INC CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MURIEL SIEBERT & CO INC (82%); QUICK & REILLY GROUP INC (71%); SIEBERT FINANCIAL CORP (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHWAB, CHARLES, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DISCOUNT SELLING DISCOUNT BROKERS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); 

PERSON: ANTILLA, SUSAN CHARLES R SCHWAB (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



323 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances by 33.77 on Heavy Volume

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The stock market ran up its sharpest gain in more than six weeks yesterday, extending Wednesday's mild rally as President Bush made his proposals for reviving the economy.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which had gained 10.80 points Wednesday, climbed 33.77 points, to 3,305.16. It was the best single-day showing since the Dow jumped 45.12 points on July 29. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 11 to 6 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 222 million shares, up from 178.8 million in the previous session.
The Amex market value index was up 1.99, to 384.81, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 6.35, to 581.24, in that market's best and busiest session since late July.
The market advanced gradually all day, picking up momentum as Mr. Bush described his "agenda for renewal," including spending cuts and an across-the-board tax reduction of about 1 percent.
Analysts said stocks also drew support from expectations of favorable inflation news. The Labor Department reports today on the Producer Price Index of Finished Goods, and next week on the Consumer Price Index, for August.
In yesterday's economic news, the Government reported that initial claims for state unemployment insurance rose 8,000, or a little less than expected, in the week ended Aug. 29.
National Semiconductor rose 7/8, to 12, in active trading yesterday. The company reported fiscal first-quarter earnings of of 17 cents a share, compared with a loss in the corresponding period a year earlier.
On the downside, the Charles Schwab Corporation tumbled 2 5/8, to 19 7/8. Late Wednesday, the discount brokerage firm surprised investors with a projection of a 50 percent decline in third-quarter profits.
Other securities-industry stocks were mostly lower. Morgan Stanley fell 1 3/8, to 49 5/8; Paine Webber 1/2, to 18 3/8; Salomon Inc. 1/4, to 35 3/4, and Bear Stearns 1/4, to 15 1/2.
However, Merrill Lynch, which said it had not seen among its customers the mood of uncertainty reported by Schwab, gained 7/8, to 52.
Cyclical stocks in industries like metals and forest products made some of the biggest contributions to the Dow's advance. The Aluminum Company of America rose 2 1/4, to 69 1/4, and International Paper gained 2 3/8, to 64 3/4.
Airline issues were also strong. UAL rose 3 7/8, to 112; AMR 1 5/8, to 61 1/4; Delta Air Lines 2 1/8, to 57 1/8, and USAir Group 1/2, to 14 1/8.
Other gainers among the blue-chip industrials included Walt Disney, up 1 1/2, to 36 3/4; American Telephone and Telegraph, up 1, to 43 5/8; Goodyear Tire and Rubber, up 2, to 65 1/2, and Procter & Gamble, up 1 3/8, to 48 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (82%); AAI (ASX) (62%); AA (NYSE) (62%); MS (NYSE) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (51%); DIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (82%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (64%); ALCOA INC (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); BONDS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (67%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (63%); AIRLINES (62%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



324 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up as Traders React To British and Iraqi Events

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday against most major currencies as traders followed events in Iraq and Britain's Prime Minister said he would not devalue the pound. Gold prices were mixed.
The dollar began to rise as Prime Minister John Major repeated Britain's unwillingness to devalue the pound against other European currencies, said Steven Jonathan, a vice president at Citibank. 
 Mr. Major said his Government would not be pushed away from its goal of low inflation. He also said he would not press Britain's partners in the European Monetary System for any sort of realignment, which could affect the dollar's value.
 
Iraq News Helps the Dollar
 News from Iraq also gave the dollar a lift, traders said. In northern Iraq, what appeared to be an Iraqi F-1 Mirage jet fighter crossed into the zone where the United States and its allies had imposed a flight ban to protect the Kurds, Pete Williams, the Pentagon spokesman, said.
Mr. Williams said allied officials were not certain that the plane was an Iraqi fighter, since others in the coalition protecting the Kurds fly such aircraft. Unrest generally causes investors to seek a safe haven currency like the dollar.
Traders also said currency markets did not flinch yesterday when President Bush proposed to cut some Federal salaries by 5 percent and overall taxes by 1 percent.
In New York, the dollar closed at 1.4205 German marks, up from 1.41355 late Wednesday. In Europe, the dollar fell to 1.4103 marks, from 1.4105 late Wednesday. Gold prices were mixed.
In New York, the British pound was quoted at $1.9645, down from $1.9710 late Wednesday. In London, the pound rose to $1.9765, from $1.9750 late Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES; IRAQ IRAQ (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (95%); DEVALUATION (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); 

PERSON: MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



325 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
WASHINGTON HEIGHTS: BEHIND THE DECISION
 The claims of two sisters who said they saw a police officer beat and fatally shoot a Dominican immigrant crumbled under the weight of physical evidence and their own contradictions, leading a grand jury to clear the officer, the Manhattan District Attorney said. He gave the explanation as he issued a detailed 45-page review of an investigation in the July death, which touched off several days of violence in Washington Heights. A1.
 
A summary of the report. B2.
 

 FIREFIGHTERS REACH CONTRACT ACCORD
 In a settlement that Dinkins administration officials said they hoped would set a pattern for upcoming labor negotiations, City Hall and the firefighters' union agreed on a tentative contract that calls for a 4.5 percent raise. But since the contract runs for 30 months, or twice as long as most of the city's other union contracts, some city officials described it as the equivalent of two 15-month deals. A1.
 
A DENIAL IN CROWN HEIGHTS CASE
The youth accused of slaying a visiting rabbinical student in Crown Heights last year, testified during a hearing that he neither stabbed the student nor participated in the assault on him. He also said the police did not find the murder weapon in his pocket, as they have said. B3.
 
COUNCIL O.K.'s BRIGHTON BEACH PROJECT
The New York City Council gave final approval to a plan to replace the historic Brighton Beach Baths in Brooklyn, ending a bitter, six-year dispute. B3.
 
HOSPITALS CHANGE CITY HALL RELATIONSHIP
The board of New York City's public hospital system voted without opposition to overhaul its relationship with City Hall, approving a plan intended to give the hospitals more control over their own budgets and more incentive to save money and to improve care. B3.
 
REGION
 
CANDIDATES OPEN SENATE DEBATE
 The four Democrats seeking their party's Senate nomination battled last night in their first televised debate of the primary campaign. The candidates often clashed over ethics, with questions being raised about the integrity of Geraldine Ferraro, the acknowledged front-runner. The candidates differed little on the other issues. A1.
 
Ferraro releases '84 and '85 tax returns. B6.
 
 REPUBLICANS MEET TO REGROUP
 Faced with a politically explosive $1.7 billion budget shortfall next year and possible defections on major issues, New Jersey's Republican legislative majority held a retreat to regroup. After a day that opened with motivational speeches and ended with a discussion of the budget, the 85 Republicans decided to hand the problems back to Gov. Jim Florio. B5.
 
 SEEKING CIVILIAN REVIEW IN NEWARK
 In the first organized citizen response to recent police shootings of car-theft suspects in Newark, a new coalition of community groups has called for a civilian police complaint review board. B5.
 
 Our Towns by Andrew H. MalcolmB4
 ChronicleB4

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Unemployment" shows unemployment in Newark, Hartford and New York, May 1991-August 1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); NEW YORK CITY; HARTFORD (CONN); NEWARK (NJ) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); MURDER (78%); ETHICS (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (75%); APPROVALS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); JUVENILE CRIME (72%); GRAND JURY (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); 

PERSON: GERALDINE ANNE FERRARO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



326 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 34; Column 3; Weekend Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: The Big Guns Take Sides in Trade-Policy Debate

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Chances are that if Warren Steibel, the producer of "Firing Line," were entrusted with organizing the Presidential debates, they would turn out to be a lot more enlightening and entertaining than they promise to be this year. Tonight's two-hour debate on a subject that is not often honored in prime time manages to make the pros and cons of free trade, believe it or not, positively lively.
The program was taped last week at the University of Mississippi, where eight men with some knowledge of the matter gathered to argue over the proposition that "United States Industry Does Not Need Protection." ("Firing Line" does not go in for proportionate representation by sex, race or ethnic heritage, but there is plenty of variety in style as well as of opinion on display.) 
 Taking the positive side of the negative resolution are William F. Buckley Jr., the program's resident polysyllabicist; Henry A. Kissinger, the former Secretary of State; Jack Kemp, the present Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Representative Dick Armey, Republican of Texas. In favor of some degree of protection are Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, who is also the House majority leader; the economist Lester Thurow, dean of the Sloan School of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; James Fallows, Washington editor of The Atlantic Monthly, and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California. Michael Kinsley moderates with an occasional wisecrack and a minimum of interference.
Mr. Kinsley's main jobs are to keep these opinionators to their allotted time limits, and to make sure that the questions they ask of one another are not speeches in disguise and the answers do not become what Mr. Buckley calls anfractuosities. The format of brief statements followed by pointed exchanges allows the debaters to mix it up, and only now and then to mix up the audience.
Illuminating differences appear within the teams, and significant agreements across them. Mr. Kissinger turns out to be no strict free-trader; taking a geopolitical rather than an economic perspective, he supports the recent trade agreement with Mexico on the grounds that it will help that country achieve full democracy. Mr. Brown opposes such agreements largely because he sees them as undermining American sovereignty by giving power to countries like Mexico and to shadowy international bureaucracies.
But the focus, of course, is on America's economic troubles. No one comes out against growth, but while Mr. Buckley and Mr. Kemp stand unapologetically for the blessings of Reaganomics, Mr. Gephardt argues that the United States cannot afford to play by the rules of free trade as long as other countries -- he cites Japan -- rig the market. Mr. Armey, who relies mainly on slogans about free enterprise, is trounced by the facts marshaled by Mr. Fallows and Mr. Thurow, which is the way debates are supposed to work.
Whichever position you find more congenial, for these two hours you may be impressed that it is mainly on Government-subsidized public television that you are likely to find free trade in ideas.
 
'20/20'
'Soldiers of Misfortune'
 ABC, tonight at 10.
 (Channel 7 in New York.)
Tonight's edition of "20/20" begins with a suggestive report that thousands of American servicemen wound up as prisoners in the Soviet Union after World War II. It is largely based on a recent book by James D. Sanders, Mark A. Sauter and R. Court Kirkwood titled "Soldiers of Misfortune" (National Press). The writers make a case that the troops were in German P.O.W. camps liberated by the Russians, who then kept them as hostages for Russian soldiers held by the United States. When exchange agreements broke down, the authors contend, the Americans were sent to Siberian labor camps, and Washington ignored their existence for diplomatic reasons.
Unfortunately, in an apparent effort to bolster an intriguing but problematic account, the ABC correspondent Tom Jarriel passes along shreds of suspicion, speculation and the wishful beliefs of relatives of other missing Americans, some from the wars in Korea and Vietnam. In the rapid shifts, the viewer may find it difficult to sort out fact from supposition. Let's hope that "20/20" is not getting into the bad habit, not unknown on the tube, of hyping the facts in the interests of a more sensational show.
 
'It Happened on Main Street'
 NBC, Sunday at 8 A.M.
 (Channel 4 in New York.)
Anyone who has been following the savings-and-loan debacle will find no revelations in this somewhat belated 90-minute edition of "Today," but it does offer examples of the sort of greed, chicanery, political string-pulling and official negligence that are costing taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars.
The program notes, for example, that deregulation of the savings-and-loan industry brought a high time for operators like William Michael Adkinson, who obtained millions from savings-and-loan branches in Pennsylvania and Texas for a Florida development called Emerald Coast, which never developed. Since the lenders knew the Government would cover any losses, however imprudent the loan, they had no reason to be prudent. A visit to Emerald Coast finds only acres of sand dunes.
Another operator, David L. Paul, who once controlled the biggest savings-and-loan chain in Florida, has been charged with diverting $3 million to his own use, and there are intimations that Washington officials interceded to keep the heat off him.
After pointing out that the Senators and Representatives who voted for deregulation in the Reagan years, in effect, encouraged the con artists to cash in, Garrick Utley notes that the savings-and-loan industry contributed more than $11 million to Congressional campaigns in the 1980's. The money went especially to members of the Senate and House banking committees, like Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is the Senate committee's chairman, and other members, including the Democratic Senator Alan Cranston of California and the Republican Senators Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, Phil Gramm of Texas and Jake Garn of Utah. In some endeavors, a bipartisan spirit prevails.
 
Firing Line Debate
Resolved: United States Industry Does Not Need Protection
PBS, tonight at 9.
(Channel 13 in New York.)

Produced and directed by Warren Steibel; Jim McQuinn, executive in charge of production; Mr. McQuinn, Muriel O. Murphy, George Kahookele, associate producers; Mr, Kahookele, assistant director; Chip Sego, technical director. Panelists: William F. Buckley Jr., Jack Kemp, Henry A. Kissinger, Representative Dick Armey, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Lester Thurow, James Fallows, and Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. Michael Kinsley, moderator.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William F. Buckley Jr., debating the proposition that "United States Industry Does Not Need Protection," tonight on "Firing Line."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;FIRING LINE (TV PROGRAM); 20/20 (TV PROGRAM); IT HAPPEND ON MAIN STREET (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REVIEWS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) ; TELEVISION; DEBATING TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); CITIES (52%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; BUCKLEY, WILLIAM F JR; KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); KEMP, JACK F (SEC); ARMEY, DICK (REPR); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); THUROW, LESTER; FALLOWS, JAMES ; BROWN, JERRY JERRY BROWN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



327 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Journal;
Students Get a Saturday Off: Can They Handle It?

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 10

 BODY:
One of the biggest changes in Japan's education system since it was established 120 years ago will take place on Saturday. Schools will be closed.
Public elementary, middle and high schools throughout Japan are to close for one Saturday a month to give overworked students a break. Government officials say the move is the first step toward a full five-day school week some years in the future. 
 One Saturday off a month might not seem like a whole lot of extra leisure time, but in workaholic Japan the new policy has set off a wave of debate, and even fear.
While some educators, parents and students say it will improve the lives of children, others warn that it is the beginning of a descent into laziness that will undermine the nation's academic achievement and industrial competitiveness.
 
'Some Kind of Plot'
 "I almost tend to think this is some kind of plot to weaken Japan's economic prowess by attacking the final fortress -- education," said Miyuki Ohashi, a professor of sociology at Nihon University.
Others are worried about a more immediate matter: How are the students going to fill this new free time?
"I have nothing to do unless I come to school," said Atsushi Sumida, a 13-year-old seventh grader at Ginza Junior High School in Tokyo.
Concerned that children, or their parents, might not be able to come up with ideas by themselves, the Ministry of Education has called on local governments, corporations and cultural institutions to organize activities for Saturday. And Japan Inc., with a mixture of patriotism and self-interest, is rising to the occasion.
Department stores are organizing tours, story-telling sessions and other activities to help the national cause, and to lure some young customers. A fish cultivation center in Shizuoka Prefecture will allow children to dive into a concrete tank containing 10,000 red sea bream. Even the country's pool halls will throw open their doors on Saturday to let children play free.
 
The Envy of Others
 One thing Education Ministry officials do not want to see children doing this Saturday morning is studying.
Japan's education system is often the envy of other countries because it produces a well-educated and disciplined work force. But some scholars say the system robs children of their childhood and turns them into automatons in matching uniforms and backpacks.
Japanese students attend school 240 days a year compared with about 180 days in the United States. There are about six hours a day of schooling on weekdays and three or four hours on Saturday mornings.
On top of that, many students attend private cram schools, or juku, on nights and weekends to prepare for college and high-school entrance examinations. Getting into the right college is all important in determining one's career prospects.
Critics contend that in addition to the long hours the schooling is geared too much toward rote learning rather than creative thinking.
"Maybe the school education has been too strict, creating kids who are rather uninspired," said Masami Zeniya, director of the elementary school education division at the Ministry of Education. "We should focus more on raising children who can think by themselves and make decisions by themselves, rather than just accepting knowledge."
 
Free Thinking Is the Aim
 The Saturday-off plan, by giving children more time for themselves, is intended to encourage free thinking. It is also part of a push by the Government to make Japanese relax more. Many companies and Government agencies have already gone to a five-day work week.
Not everyone thinks the Saturday closings will result in more leisure. The Education Ministry, they note, has neglected to change the school curriculum, which calls for a certain number of hours to be devoted to each subject a year. To meet the requirements, schools are making up for the missing Saturday classes by having students stay longer on weekdays or by scheduling classes at times once used for sports or club activities.
"I'm not happy at all because the hours we cut on Saturday will be added to the other days," said Shino Ikeda, an eighth grader at Ginza Junior High School.
 
A Principal Is Warned
 As in any revolution, there are those who resist. Many parents are against the plan because it will mean more time taking care of their children and will pose hardships when both parents work on Saturday.
A poll by the newspaper Tokyo Shimbun last spring found 49 percent approving the idea of one Saturday off a month, with 44 percent disapproving. But when it came to the idea of closing schools every Saturday, those opposed slightly outnumbered those in favor.
Government officials are trying hard to stamp out the counterrevolutionaries. A high-school principal in Kagoshima Prefecture, in southern Japan, was reprimanded by the local authorities when he suggested too strongly that students attend voluntary classes that will be offered on the Saturdays school is closed.
Some experts say that as long as the pressure of college entrance examinations remains, it will be difficult to reduce school hours. With public schools closed on Saturday mornings, some students will just go to cram schools instead.
Yoshiya Abe, professor of comparative culture at Aichi Gakuin University, said a more fundamental change might occur because Japan's low birth rate was leading to a gradual reduction in the number of high-school seniors.
"By the year 2005 there will be more places in the universities than there are applicants," he said. "This will really reduce the pressure to work hard for the college entrance exams."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Producing a well-disciplined work force has made the educational system in Japan the envy of other nations. But in an unusual decision by the Education Ministry, Japanese students, like these boys going home after class recently, will now get one Saturday off from school each month. (Koji Sasahara for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CHUBU JAPAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO SHIMBUN (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); AQUACULTURE (67%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



328 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Bush's Double Bind

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
When it comes to dealing with the economy as a campaign issue, President Bush is caught in a trap.
If he advocates bold new ideas for addressing the country's economic problems, that raises the question of why, after all this time in office, he is just now getting around to doing something about the situation. 
 If he states, as most economists believe, that the weak economy today is mostly the result of overindulgences of the 1980's, he is in the position of criticizing the policies of the Reagan Administration. He was part of that Administration, and his election campaign four years ago was based in large part on glorifying its economic record.
 
An Economic Mess
 In his speech in Detroit today, Mr. Bush expressed, in the greatest detail and candor of his Presidency, his understanding of what a mess the United States economy is in. And he drew the most complete picture to date of his own economic principles and what he wants the economy to look like in the future.
But for those looking for policy prescriptions or clear insights into what exactly Mr. Bush would do about the economy if he won re-election, he offered little if anything new. One reason perhaps is that the President's basic goals -- cutting the budget deficit, lowering taxes and reducing Government spending drastically without touching Social Security -- are often in conflict.
A recent report by the General Accounting Office stated what is obvious to most impartial economists: "The amount of deficit reduction needed to achieve either balance or surplus will be difficult, if not impossible, to achieve if any major areas of spending or potential revenues are set off the table." So here, the President must avoid specifics.
Mr. Bush's address was probably more successful as a campaign speech. His political goal was not so much to break new ground on economic policy as to counter the assertions of his critics that no coherent theme connected the myriad economic proposals he had put forward over the years. He tried to show that his ideas on taxation, education, welfare, job training and the like were not just random thoughts, but were based on fundamental principles.
On the policy side, although it is 26 months after the recession began and just 53 days before the next election, Mr. Bush suggested no bolder a plan than he had before about how, in his words, to "manage the changes that are transforming our economy" and prepare the country for "an era of great opportunity."
Beneath the new thematic flourishes in today's speech to the Detroit Economic Club are the same vague promises he put forth at the Republican National Convention in Houston last month to cut taxes and spending and keep the Government from meddling in the marketplace and the same programs that over the years have generated little public enthusiasm or Congressional support.
In his convention speech and other addresses about the economy over the years, Mr. Bush emphasized the health of the American economy. Today, by contrast, he began by listing "five profound changes" causing serious economic difficulties but said little about how he would relieve that stress.
He noted the dislocations caused by deep reductions in military spending after the collapse of the Soviet Union, but except in the vaguest terms, he did not indicate how he would help the military-related workers who have lost their livelihoods.
He spoke of how old-fashioned manufacturing jobs were being replaced by positions requiring a highly skilled work force, but he did not say what role the Government should play in training these workers in the new skills.
He said individuals and companies were hamstrung by the vast increase in their debts in the high-rolling 1980's, but he did not mention that the Federal Government's own debt under his stewardship had risen by about $1.5 trillion.
The fourth change he listed was the shaky banking system. But he did not explain why he personally did not push the legislation his own Treasury Department sponsored unsuccessfully last year to overhaul the system.
Finally, Mr. Bush talked about America's increasing reliance on overseas economies and promised to press for new free-trade treaties. But in the next breath, he talked about a company in St. Louis that makes lights for police cars, hardly the kind of high-technology export that even Mr. Bush's own economic advisers think the nation should stress.
 
Repackaging Old Ideas
 Mr. Bush has little choice but to try to repackage his old ideas in a new oratorical wrapping and to try to persuade voters that the economic plans of his Democratic opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton, are downright dangerous.
On the themes, instead of trade policy, he talked today of "challenging the world." Instead of education, he spoke of "preparing our children." Instead of cutting taxes on companies and investors, it was "sharpening business's competitive edge." Instead of job training and medical care, it was "promoting economic security." Instead of welfare, it was "leaving no one behind." Instead of making the Government cheaper and more efficient, it was "right-sizing Government."
But the policies are basically the same. The main way he would improve education, for example, would be to have the Government pick up the tuition of students in private schools. He would attack poverty by "sweeping away the nightmare of crime from our cities, building a core of property owners, creating business incentives and making individual discipline and self-reliance the goal of all of our programs."
 
Talk of Political Mirage
 As for Mr. Clinton's economic plans, Mr. Bush spoke today of "the mirage that my opponent offers of a Government that accumulates capital by taxing it and borrowing it from the people, and then redistributing it according to some industrial policy."
The centerpieces of the Clinton economic platform are higher taxes on households with incomes greater than $200,000 and new spending on a variety of Government public works projects. The Democrat's proposals for cutting the budget deficit are based on calculations as shaky as the President's.
Mr. Bush did propose one wholly new idea today. He said he would cut the salaries of Federal workers earning more than $75,000 by 5 percent. "Taxpayers have tightened their belts," he declared. "The better-paid Federal workers should do the same."
Just two years ago, Mr. Bush argued successfully for a Federal pay increase. Federal salaries, he said then, were so out of line with those in business that competent managers could not be lured to Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX RELIEF (70%); TAX LAW (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



329 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: MOUNTAIN TROOPS HELPING IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FLORIDA CITY, Fla., Sept. 10

 BODY:
Until Hurricane Andrew came along, the soldiers of the United States Army's 10th Mountain Division had planned to spend September in training exercises at their home base, Fort Drum, N.Y. Instead, members of the unit have for the last week been sorting canned goods and other donated items in the ruins of a tomato processing plant here.
"We're infantry soldiers, and we're used to doing that job," Pvt. Anthony Lee, a 21-year-old from Sandusky, Ohio, said as he and his buddies wheeled a pallet of canned vegetables to a truck waiting for a load to carry to a nearby tent city. "It feels good to be here helping people, but this is something totally new and different for us." 
 South Florida may look like a war zone, but the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine troops assisting in hurricane relief efforts are nonetheless operating on unfamiliar terrain. In a deployment of forces that has already eclipsed the 1989 invasion of Panama, combat units have been pressed into service for a variety of humanitarian missions, from rebuilding schools and directing traffic to removing debris.
 
The Call to Action
 As of Wednesday, nearly two weeks after President Bush first ordered units to the disaster zone, 21,922 regular troops and 6,257 National Guardsmen were in South Florida. Assigned to some of the hardest-hit areas of Homestead and Florida City, the 10th Mountain Division is one of the biggest units here, with 4,844 soldiers and officers.
When the call to action came, some of the 10th's soldiers said, they were told only that they were shipping out. Some thought they might be heading off to the Persian Gulf, or Bosnia. Only after they arrived here did they realize they have become part of an historic experiment, whose outcome may help determine whether there is an expanded domestic role for a military in search of new missions.
"They talk about 'the New Army,' and I guess this is it," Sgt. Maj. Stanley Kaminski said as he surveyed a field in the shadow of the Florida City municipal water tower where his soldiers were working on food distribution with city employees and volunteers from a religious group.
Troops stationed here tell of duties that come straight out of the Boy Scout Handbook. They are helping elderly women and pregnant women move furniture from their devastated homes, doing laundry for homeless people now living in tent cities, or sweeping trash from front yards for homeowners.
 
Giving Medical Help
 In a suburban housing development, another group of soldiers from an air defense and artillery battalion have been going door to door, checking to see what houses have been abandoned and asking the remaining residents if they need free tarpaper, plywood or plastic sheeting.
"People have come to us with a lot of medical questions, like how to get prescriptions filled or what to do about cut feet or infections," said Capt. Jeff Przybylak, who has been helping tear down condemned houses in a poor neighborhood. "One lady in my sector is pregnant, and today is her due day, so I've given my medical team advance notice she may have to go in."
There is even a military-run radio station, located at 1610 on the AM dial and called "Radio Recovery." Broadcasting throughout South Dade County in English, Spanish and Haitian Creole, the station provides information about shelter, food distribution locations, medical clinics, legal advice and Federal financial assistance.
"The command and control structure the military has, that's what the key is right now," Col. Bill Martinez, one of the 10th Mountain Division's battalion commanders, said. "The organizational skills, the ability to give a command and move people into a sector, that's what we can contribute. We are their lifeline right now."
 
Not Doing Police Work
 One thing the soldiers are not doing, however, is police work. As Federal troops in an area where martial law has not been declared, they cannot engage in law-enforcement activities and are under orders to call the police if they see crimes being committed.
Gangs here know that, and some have challenged soldiers in the streets and tried to disarm them. In one recent confrontation, heavily armed members of a gang told a squad patrolling their turf to surrender their unloaded M-16 rifles, but they eventually backed off.
Commanders from Lieut. Gen. Samuel Ebbesen, head of the overall relief effort, on down have said repeatedly that theirs is a "support mission," not one in which they issue the orders. Citing the tradition of civilian control of the military, they say they want to work as closely and efficiently as possible with civilian authorities.
In practical terms, said Katie Mitchell, assistant city manager of Homestead, that means that military and civilian officials meet as often as four times a day. "We go over everything, letting them know what we are hearing from our employees in the field and what kind of problems we are having and where we think we need more support," she said.
This week, Ms. Mitchell said, civilian authorities have made their top priority the repair of schools so that classes, originally scheduled to begin Aug. 31, can start on Monday. The military's response has been to send the 10th Mountain Division and Navy Seabees to Homestead High School and other schools designated by city officials, and follow instructions.
"When the military first came in, we had trees all over, and the place was a total mess," said Genevieve Chandler, principal of the Florida City Elementary School. "They have done roofing, pulled up carpet, swept out the parking lot, brought hot meals in for the people working here.
"Everything we've asked for, they have done for us."
Military officers have also stressed that they will phase out their activities as soon as civilian authorities indicate they are no longer needed.
Soldiers on duty here, though, will continue to live almost exactly as they would if they were on the front lines overseas. At an unfinished housing development called Keys Gate, the 10th Mountain Division has 20 soldiers to a tent, sleeping on cots with mosquito netting, consuming cold "Meals Ready-to-Eat" for breakfast and lunch, eating hot rations for dinner, and getting many of the same benefits that would have been supplied by training.
"In a normal training environment, our people will be together for 10 to 12 hours a day and then go home," said Col. Joseph Prasek of the 10th Mountain Division.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although South Florida may look like a war zone, many of the duties the soldiers of the Army's 10th Mountain Division are performing there are unfamiar ones. Pvt. James Sosbe Jr. helped Dorothy Wade and her daughter, Wanda Jamison, with groceries secured at a nearby supply tent. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

COMPANY: MOUNTAIN DIV (80%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA CITY (FLA) UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE HURRICANES (91%); MOUNTAINS (91%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); WEATHER (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); NAVIES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (63%); CIVIL SERVICES (60%); SUBURBS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



330 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Ballet Theater and Joffrey Decide Against Merging

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
American Ballet Theater and the Joffrey Ballet have agreed not to pursue a merger plan that the financially hard-pressed companies had been exploring since June. The decision was reached in separate board meetings on Wednesday and announced yesterday.
Both companies, which have severe cash-flow problems, also announced that they were beginning emergency fund-raising campaigns and that they expected to perform through the 1992-93 season. Ballet Theater also said that next week it would announce an artistic director to succeed Jane Hermann, a co-director with Oliver Smith, who resigned on Sept. 1. 
 A company spokesman, Robert Pontarelli, would not confirm or deny widespread reports that the new director would be Kevin McKenzie, a principal dancer, choreographer and artistic associate of the Washington Ballet who was a former principal dancer with Ballet Theater.
 
On Questions of Payment
 In a statement released yesterday after a meeting with Ballet Theater's dancers and administrative staff, the chairman of Ballet Theater's board, Stephen J. Friedman, said that a revised financial plan for the 1992-93 season would be developed with the new director and that board members had agreed to accelerate donations to enable the company "to immediately resume paying its dancers and staff, and to begin paying its vendors on a cash basis going forward."
Mr. Pontarelli said the money would be used to pay the dancers' unemployment benefit supplements, due last week, and health-insurance premiums, which are two weeks late.
Mr. Friedman said in his statement, "At the same time the board plans to launch a far-reaching fund-raising campaign, with important assistance from the dancers, that will enable the company to finance the remainder of the season."
In a move to reduce its budget, Ballet Theater has canceled engagements in San Francisco and Chicago "because of substantial losses which the company would have to incur to present itself in those cities," Mr. Friedman said. It will perform as scheduled this winter in Japan, Buenos Aires, Los Angeles and at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, along with its annual eight-week season at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York, opening on May 3.
The Joffrey Ballet announced that it would appear as scheduled in its two-week engagement at City Center in mid-Manhattan, opening on Feb. 22, in winter engagements in Germany, and in seasons in Minneapolis, Iowa City, San Francisco and at the Kennedy Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER; JOFFREY BALLET WASHINGTON BALLET (80%); F KENNEDY CENTER (60%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER; JOFFREY BALLET AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (50%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES BALLET (92%); DANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DANCERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BUDGETS (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



331 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Baseball Owners Lean Toward Lockout

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Sept. 10

 BODY:
With the battle over Fay Vincent as commissioner apparently ancient history, major league baseball's club owners focused their attention on economic issues today and showed early signs that they were gearing themselves for a self-inflicted shutdown next spring.
"I'd be surprised if there isn't a lockout," one participant in the owners' meeting said after listening to the report and discussion on labor. "No votes were taken, but they were certainly feisty enough about it." 
 Before the owners can lock out the players for the second time in four years, they would have to reopen negotiation on the collective-bargaining agreement by Dec. 11. Either side can take that step, but the players' union has shown no inclination to move in that direction.
Bud Selig, the owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, who is in charge of the majors pending the election of a new commissioner, said the owners won't make a decision on reopening collective bargaining "for a while." Selig also is the board chairman of the owners' labor body.
 
More Militant Stance
 Talk of reopening and locking out may be premature, but there is sentiment among many owners not to wait for the labor contract to expire after the 1993 season. They want to, in their terms, take back control of the game from the players, and they believe a militant stance is necessary.
Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox, one of the most militant owners, said he didn't know if the owners would reopen bargaining, but, he added, "it's going to be seriously considered."
The owners spent about half an hour on the report from Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, but it was only one phase of their discussion of economic issues.
"When economic issues came up, the focus of attention went up," the participant in the meeting said.
Six or seven clubs, the person said, expressed the view that if they could get out of their agreements, they would drop some of their minor league teams as a way of saving money. But Eddie Einhorn of the Chicago White Sox and Carl Barger of the Florida Marlins, who are on the minor league committee, pointed out that the agreement with the National Association, which represents the minor leagues, says major league clubs will maintain 119 minor league teams, and this can't be changed as long as the agreement is in effect.
 
Discussion on Loans
 On another economic matter, Selig reported that he and another owner will meet with bank officials next week to discuss loans that some officials said could be jeopardized by the ouster of Vincent as commissioner.
Vincent, who resigned under pressure last Monday, was not a topic of conversation at the meeting. Not even his supporters from last week's 18-9 vote said anything. "There wasn't a whisper raised," the participant said.
Selig told the owners that "the press expected us to go at each other and it's been anything but."
On the other hand, at the National League meeting Wednesday, an owner said that Peter O'Malley of the Los Angeles Dodgers raised a question about Selig. "How can he be in charge of so many things?" O'Malley was quoted as remarking. O'Malley and Selig were in the forefront of the move to unseat Vincent.
 
Multiple Roles Unchallenged
 Earlier in the day, Selig was elected chairman of the executive council, which, in effect, makes him the temporary replacement for the commissioner. He is also board chairman of the Player Relations Committee, the owners' representative to the economic study committee with the players, a member of the ownership committee and, as chairman of the executive council, head of the committee that will seek a new commissioner.
No one at today's joint meeting of the leagues challenged Selig's multiple roles, perhaps because at the outset he said, "I know I'm doing a lot, but I'm not going to overstretch myself."
Selig passed up an opportunity to be a member of the restructuring committee that will study possible changes in the role of the commissioner. Fred Wilpon of the Mets and Paul Beeston of the Toronto Blue Jays were named co-chairmen of the committee today.
Other members are Reinsdorf, who was considered the No. 1 instigator in removing Vincent; Haywood Sullivan of Boston; Larry Lucchino of Baltimore; Rusty Rose of Texas; William Bartholomay of Atlanta; Claude Brochu of Toronto; Wayne Huizenga of the Marlins, and O'Malley. The league presidents will also serve, and George W. Bush of Texas will be an ex-officio member.
The resolution in which the owners asked Vincent to resign said the restructuring committee would make recommendations to the clubs by Nov. 1. But Selig said today that the committee would not be held to that deadline.
Tom Werner of San Diego, a successful television producer, was named chairman of the television committee and will negotiate a new national television package aided by Einhorn and Bill Giles of Philadelphia.
"We can't sit here today and consider what we're going to do," Selig said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Brown Not Interested
 BATON ROUGE, La., Sept.10 (AP) -- Ron Brown, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said today that he had no interest in being the new baseball commissioner. Brown's name had been mentioned in speculation about candidates to succeed Fay Vincent.
"I am totally focused on doing everything I can to see that Bill Clinton will be elected the next President of the United States," Brown said at a news conference.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bud Selig responding to questions yesterday in St. Louis after the baseball owners meeting. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MILWAUKEE BREWERS BASEBALL CLUB (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LOCKOUTS; CONTRACTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BASEBALL (95%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; SELIG, BUD FAY VINCENT (74%); BUD SELIG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



332 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Fehr Awaits 2 Words: Delay Ball

BYLINE: By Claire Smith

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
Bud Selig, the closest thing to a commissioner baseball has these days, is expressing a bit of puzzlement. He does not understand why the owners' overthrow of Commissioner Fay Vincent is being construed as a signal that management not only intends to reopen negotiations on the labor agreement with players come January, but also plans to manufacture such a confrontation so as to shut down the game for a very long time.
The public that still bothers to care about baseball may be so war-weary as to be beyond understanding how players, or anyone else, have drawn such pessimistic conclusions. Donald Fehr, a person with more than a passing interest in this issue, is more than willing to provide the answer. 
 Fehr, the head of the players' union, says that the players, always suspicious of the owners' motives, are not just wary, they're angry, angrier then they've been since being locked out in the spring of 1990.
Why?
"Have you heard the word 'reconciliation?' " Fehr asked. "Have you heard the word 'partnership?' Have you heard the words 'new understanding?' Have you heard any of that? All you've heard is war."
Fehr expressed his feelings yesterday, speaking by telephone from Chicago, his third stop on his cross-country trek to visit his constituency, a tour that started the day after Vincent resigned.
"There is no public indication that there is the slightest interest on behalf of the owners in doing anything except fighting a war for the sake of fighting a war, of reestablishing their prominence, of making clear their primacy," Fehr said. "So, they throw out Fay. They make it clear they have utter disdain for the public. And so the next group they beat up upon is the players."
Fehr had said little on baseball's upheaval since 18 of 28 owners cast a no-confidence vote against Vincent last week and since Vincent's subsequent resignation on Monday. He had wanted to see what emerged from the first post-Vincent owners' meeting, something that occurred the last two days in St. Louis.
Though the owners were pretty much mum about their labor stance and the extent of their discussions, they issued no statements whatsoever to dissuade Fehr from his dire predictions. In fact, the actions and attitudes emanating from the meeting here may well enforce the belief that baseball is considering making war once more.
According to a participant in the owners' meeting, the owners were pretty subdued until economic and labor issues came up. "The focus of attention went up," the participant said. "In my opinion, I wouldn't be surprised if there is a lockout. No votes were taken, but they were certainly feisty enough about it."
Then there are the recent words of Jerry Reinsdorf, owner of the Chicago White Sox and the power broker being credited with bringing down Vincent and orchestrating the coronation of Selig Wednesday. He was quoted as saying in the Chicago Sun-Times on Sept. 4: "If a commissioner has an obligation to constituencies other than the owners, I don't think he should be involved. When we go to war with the union, I want him to have an obligation only to the owners."
Since Vincent last June refused to waive his powers to act in the best interest of baseball when it came to labor relations, he obviously did not fit the Reinsdorf description. And since major league owners have given no indication that they are about to abandon Vincent's positions on realignment or his perceived opposition to the Giants' move to Florida, it increases the suspicion he's gone either for reasons of incredible incompatibility or because of the issue of labor.
"It is conceivable that Fay would have been thrown out quite apart from lockout issues," Fehr said. "It is, however, accurate that among the people who were instrumental in coercing those 18 votes are the people most interested in fighting a conflict with the players for purposes of fighting a conflict with the players. This way they have no one in position to interfere with that, to raise questions."
Would Vincent have inserted himself into a confrontation with the players? He did in 1990, entering negotiations with Fehr and the players at the request of owners like Selig in an effort to help end a lockout. One spring later, Vincent negotiated with the umpires' union, angering the league presidents.
Now, with Vincent gone, Fehr is convinced there is only one mind-set within management, that qualms over Selig heading the executive council that runs baseball in Vincent's absence, with Selig running the Player Relations Committee, management's negotiating arm, with Reinsdorf having his way, have been muted for good.
"The owners no longer perceive a difference between the P.R.C., the owners as a group, the executive council or Reinsdorf's living room," Fehr said.
So it is that more than 650 players wait for Dec. 11, the date owners and the players must inform each other whether or not they intend to exercise the reopener in the basic agreement a year early. So it is that by Jan. 11, that reopener could be in effect. With Vincent out, the most powerful varsity the owners ever took on prepares for battle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); LOCKOUTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: VINCENT, FAY; FEHR, DONALD; SMITH, CLAIRE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



333 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: For Assembly: Brooklyn, the Bronx

 BODY:
Here are our recommendations for New York Assembly races in Brooklyn and the Bronx where victory in Tuesday's Democratic primary will be tantamount to election.
BROOKLYN.
42d District. The seven-term veteran Rhoda Jacobs has worked hard and well, for instance pressing legislation to help the elderly and homeless, and has earned re-election. Still, two challengers offer promise -- Edward Roberts, a lawyer, and Clarence Robertson, formerly an official in the Brooklyn District Attorney's office. 
 44th District. This race is the nastiest of the season. It began when the Assembly leadership approved new district lines that helped the new incumbent, Joni Yoswein, at the expense of another incumbent, James Brennan. Mr. Brennan has conducted a mud-slinging campaign that turns on Ms. Yoswein's former job as an aide to former Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, convicted last year on fraud charges in connection with his private law practice.
Mr. Brennan raises troubling questions about her role in a possibly improper use of Mr. Miller's campaign funds for his defense. She admits to poor judgment, but denies illegality. Both sides have now engaged in ugly campaigning but Mr. Brennan stepped over the line by trying to tar Ms. Yoswein unfairly with guilt by association.
Mr. Brennan has been hard-working and independent but not notably effective in four terms. We prefer Ms. Yoswein. In her brief eight months in office, she has shown admirable energy and savvy. 51st District. Voters have five qualified candidates to choose from: Beatrice Byrd, an elementary school teacher; Marilyn Kneeland, a lawyer and former legislative aide; Juan Perez, a college administrator; Javier Nieves, an architect who has run an impressive, issue-based campaign, and John Kennedy O'Hara, a lawyer and community leader. In a close call, we support the determined Mr. O'Hara because of his feel for the district and keen interest in stimulating the local economy.
54th District. Thomas Catapano, first elected in 1983, runs a solid district office and serves competently in Albany. Neither F. Louis Caraballo, a lawyer, nor Darryl Towns, a hospital official, offers a compelling reason to unseat him.
58th District. We recommend N. Nick Perry, community board member and an official in the state office of mental health. He understands government and has a special interest in education. His most impressive opponent, Mae West, a nurse and anesthetist, has an admirable record of fighting youth drug abuse but is politically unseasoned.
THE BRONX.
76th District. In this crowded race, we endorse Peter Rivera, an attorney and past president of the Puerto Rican Bar Association in New York. His command of issues and community involvement make him preferable to his two main rivals, George Sanchez, a civilian official in the New York Police Department, and Armando Montano Jr., a lawyer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, RHODA (ASSEMBLYWOMAN); YOSWEIN, JONI A (ASSEMBLYWOMAN); O'HARA, JOHN KENNEDY ; CATAPANO, THOMAS F (ASSEMBLYMAN); PERRY, N NICK; RIVERA, PETER JOHN F KENNEDY (82%); JOHN F KENNEDY (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



334 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: At Last, a Bush Package

 BODY:
President Bush: Welcome to the debate. Yesterday, almost four years after taking office, he issued an "Agenda for American Renewal" that comprises a coherent statement of economic objectives and policies. It calls for making the U.S. a strong exporter, educating disadvantaged children, sharpening competitiveness, cutting government waste, helping the poor and protecting workers.
There's certainly nothing wrong with that list of priorities. And the program's coherence will help frame a more constructive campaign debate. Yet while sensible, the President's agenda is also deficient in two ways. 
 First, candor. Readers would never suspect that economic recovery is nowhere in sight, that productivity has stagnated for 20 years, or that the gap between rich and poor has widened alarmingly.
Second, substance. The agenda offers no ammunition to fight unemployment that traumatizes millions. And what lies behind Mr. Bush's sound priorities are many stale, ineffectual remedies.
The President laid out six issues, into which a myriad of previous proposals are fitted:
TRADE: The plan starts out exactly right. The key to growth is to transform America into a lean, mean competitor. To that end he embraces the recently completed trade agreement with Mexico and Canada and the continuing work on international trade. He highlights his glaring difference with Gov. Bill Clinton, who has provided only grudging support for the talks with Mexico.
CHILDREN: Mr. Bush repeats wise, but inadequate, proposals to pour more money into education and nutrition programs targeted on the poor. The centerpiece of his plan is school choice. Yet the President has not faced up to the tormenting problem of children left behind in blighted schools.
COMPETITIVENESS: Here Mr. Bush descends into irrelevance. Tax cuts here and there might make sense. But add them together and the economy would hardly budge. Twenty years of slow growth is frightening; the economy needs a jolt of investment. Mr. Clinton's plan for widespread investment in transportation infrastructure, communication systems and worker training might not work as advertised, but at least it attempts to confront the magnitude of the problem.
WORKER SECURITY: Mr. Bush calls for more job training. Sound objective, but his specific suggestions, by leaving out most low-skilled workers, don't match his promises.
THE DISADVANTAGED: The President rightly points to the 1988 welfare reform act as the best way to help the long-term unemployed. But he still has not proposed putting up the money needed.
"RIGHT-SIZING" GOVERNMENT: Here Mr. Bush has some fun. He challenges Congress to cut its budget by one-third, which he promises to match.
At the end of his agenda the President lists an eye-catching 13-point plan for education reform, job training, health care reform, tax cuts, government reorganization, legal reform, crime control and election reform. Admirable ideas; they would have been more so four years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR; WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TAX REFORM (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); NUTRITION (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



335 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Won't Cut Illegal Immigration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "We Gain. Mexico Gains. Canada Gains." (Op-Ed, Aug. 14), Michael Boskin expresses the widely held view that improving the Mexican economy through a Free Trade Agreement would reduce pressures for Mexican illegal immigration across our southern border. 
 That view ignores the driving force behind illegal immigration from Mexico -- the explosive growth of its population and labor force.
Mexico's population of more than 88 million is growing at a 2.3 percent annual rate, thus adding about two million a year to its numbers. If this rate continues, its population will double in 30 years, to 176 million.
Mexico's 33 million labor force is growing even more rapidly, about 3.1 percent annually, throwing roughly one million new jobseekers into the labor market each year. Mexico must therefore create at least one million jobs a year just to keep pace with the growth of its labor force.
But roughly 16 million people -- 40 percent to 50 percent of the work force -- are unemployed or underemployed, according to most reliable estimates. It is extremely unlikely that Mexico can maintain an economic growth rate that will let it create jobs for the one million new entrants into the labor force each year, much less make a dent in the 16 million unemployed and underemployed.
It is very clear therefore that the pressures that drive millions of Mexicans across our southern border illegally each year in search of jobs will continue for the foreseeable future.
Our immigration policy should be based on realistic analysis, not on wishful thinking. We are simply deluding ourselves if we believe that improved economic conditions in the immigrant-sending countries will solve the problem of illegal immigration. That may eventually happen, but the process is likely to be measured, not even in decades, but in centuries.
Until now our Federal Government has done little to halt illegal immigration. That deplorable situation is contrary to our national interest, and must not continue. I would urge the Presidential candidates to address this vital issue.
 
DONALD MANN
 Pres., Negative Population Growth
 Teaneck, N.J., Aug. 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (98%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; POPULATION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LABOR FORCE (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); 

PERSON: MANN, DONALD

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



336 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Job Losses Put as High as 150,000

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Labor Secretary Lynn Martin conceded that the North American Free Trade Agreement could put up to 150,000 Americans out of work, while Democrats asserted that the President's plan to help them was inadequate.
Under persistent questioning by members of the Senate Finance Committee, Ms. Martin became the first Administration official to provide an estimate of American jobs that would be lost with the elimination of trade barriers among Canada, Mexico and the United States. 
 Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, has been asked repeatedly for an official figure in various Congressional hearings and briefings but has stressed only the many economic studies showing that job gains would exceed job losses over all.
Some economists suggest that if the agreement changes the mood of American executives toward Mexico, making them more inclined to invest there, then job losses could be heavy and blue-collar wages in the United States could be hurt.
Partly because investment psychology is difficult to quantify, most studies have focused on the tiny size of the Mexican economy, the shortage of educated workers there and the existing low level of United States tariffs on imports from Mexico. These studies have concluded that the elimination of trade barriers will not make a big difference in persuading companies to build factories there to supply the United States market.
Ms. Martin said the Administration would set aside $330 million a year for five years to help workers who lose their jobs because of the agreement, and was prepared to spend up to $750 million a year if necessary.
But Democratic senators criticized the plan because it would require Congress to triple spending on job-training programs next year and because the Administration has not suggested any specific spending cuts or new taxes to pay for this, planning instead to include the programs in next January's budget and pay for them out general revenues.
 
20 Studies Reviewed
 Senator Max S. Baucus, Democrat of Montana, asked Ms. Martin several questions about how the Labor Department calculated the need for the extra money. She eventually responded that the program was based on a loss of up to 150,000 jobs over 10 years, and said this was the highest job-loss figure among 20 studies her department had reviewed, including a University of Maryland study commissioned by the department.
Under further questioning by Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, Ms. Martin said that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. had predicted the loss of 500,000 jobs but that her department had not included this estimate in its review. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. opposes the free trade accord even if it is coupled with a retraining package, because union leaders contend that there will be few jobs for the retrained workers.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, on Wednesday called for the renegotiation of the pact, saying its labor and environmental provisions were inadequate. Mrs. Hills said at a seminar on Latin American issues at the State Department today that it was not feasible to reopen the negotiations.
Mrs. Hills told Congress this week that if companies sought low wages alone with their foreign investments then many poor countries would be economic powerhouses. She has also asserted many times that nothing prevents American companies from moving to Mexico now.
But the companies themselves have been wary of Mexico's political situation and of the security of new investments there. The pact, the text of which was released on Tuesday, will not only guarantee duty-free access to the American market for factories in Mexico but also provide extraordinary legal protections.
For example, several provisions buried in Chapter 11 of the agreement would allow American companies to appeal to a special bilateral panel if the Mexican Government expropriates their investments or takes other legal actions to reduce their value.
Only nine other countries, all of them developing nations eager to attract foreign investment, allow similar legal recourse for American companies. Most countries only accept such complaints from governments, which forces American companies to embark on the arduous task of enlisting Washington's support.
American companies have already built many factories in northern Mexico because of a rule allowing them to assemble products there from American parts and then ship them duty-free back to the United States. Employment in these factories climbed to 500,000 last year from 120,000 in 1980.
The effects of this shift have been little analyzed. A Stanford University study estimated last year that the average low-wage American worker's annual earnings in the year 2000 would be $50 lower with a free trade agreement than without one. But if heavy investment in Mexico accompanies the agreement then the average annual earnings would be $200 lower, the study found.
The same study found that high-wage workers would gain more than low-wage workers would lose, suggesting that the agreement would have a positive effect on the nation's economy.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the impact of the North American Free Trade Agreement described Labor Secretary Lynn Martin's comments incompletely. In addition to saying that up to 150,000 jobs could be lost, she cited studies predicting that even more jobs could be gained.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Labor Secretary Lynn Martin testified yesterday before the Senate Finance Committee, saying that the North American Free Trade Agreement could cost up to 150,000 Americans their jobs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MARTIN, LYNN (SEC); BRADSHER, KEITH MAX BAUCUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992



337 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-4
 
IRAQI ASSETS SOUGHT FOR KURDS
The United States, Britain and France are planning new Security Council resolutions to seize blocked Iraqi funds to buy food and medicine for needy Kurds and to start compensating victims of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 3
 
BELGRADE AND ZAGREB IN ACCORD
Cyrus R. Vance, the U.N. envoy to the former Yugoslavia, announced that Croatia and federal Yugoslavia had agreed to reopen a major road between their capitals and to establish a demilitarized zone on a fiercely disputed peninsula in the west. 3
 
A GAULLIST SAYS NO ON EUROPE
If French voters reject a treaty on European union in a referendum on Sept. 20, a 49-year-old Gaullist legislator will undoubtedly take his place in French history as the force who took on the establishment in the campaign to defeat the treaty. 2
 
ISRAELI EQUANIMITY ON GOLAN
News analysis: Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the reaction to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's assertions of Israel's willingness to withdraw from parts of the Golan Heights has been the equanimity with which his proposals have been received by Israelis. 4
 
TROUBLE FOR ITALY'S PREMIER
With unusual speed, the fortunes of Italy's Prime Minister, Giuliano Amato, have been upended, leaving him to face an autumn of discontent after a summer in which his fragile Government could do no wrong. 2
 
President Yeltsin warned of dangers to his economic program. 3
 
Ireland's Premier is coming to the U.S. to look for jobs. 4
 
Maceio Journal: The coastal haven of a top Brazilian aide. 4
 
National 5-9
 
BUSH APPROVES JET SALE TO SAUDIS
Once again demonstrating the advantages of incumbency in an election year, the President authorized the sale of F-15 fighter aircraft to Saudi Arabia. The deal, unlikely to be blocked by Congress, would help secure thousands of jobs. 1
 
In a new ad, Bush turns hawker, replete with 800 number. 6
 
Two Truman aides recall how it really was. 6
 
CLINTON SPEAKS OF VALUES
Extemporaneously defending himself against repeated heckling by anti-abortion protesters, Governor Clinton told an audience at the University of Notre Dame that the Republicans were promoting intolerance that threatened to divide the nation along religious lines. 1
 
THE ROCK-BOTTOM BOTTOM LINE
The low fares of this summer succeeded in putting record numbers of passengers into airplanes, but executives and analysts say the sale was disastrous to the industry. 1
 
HARD TIMES IN HOMESTEAD
The first signs of normalcy had barely begun reappearing in the hurricane-battered town of Homestead, Fla., when word came that a Senate committee had declined to provide money to rebuild the Air Force base there. Yesterday there was more bad news: the Cleveland Indians put off plans to go to Homestead for spring training. 1
 
HURRICANE BEARS DOWN ON HAWAII
Thousands of people fled beachfront homes and hotels as the leading edge of a powerful hurricane began pummeling the Hawaiian islands. 8
 
UNCLE SAM STILL WANTS YOU
The military is having trouble signing up recruits, in part because, given the fact that the Pentagon is actually paying many troops to leave, there is a perception that new ones are not needed or wanted. 5
 
NEW CUT IN ATOM ARMS COMPLEX
Proceeding with its program to shrink the nuclear arms industry, the Energy Department said it would immediately scrap its effort to build a new reactor to produce tritium, a radioactive gas used in atomic bombs. 5
 
BLACK BAPTISTS MEET IN ATLANTA
Delegates to the 112th annual gathering of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. talked of being buffeted by a host of secular concerns. 9
 
Beliefs: Gay rights as the issue of conflict for the 90's. 9
 
The Times announced appointments to three major editing posts. 9
 
Preparations proceeded for a shuttle launching today. 5
 
Metro Digest 23
 
TOUGH ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGN
The New York City Council is poised to adopt a law that would make the city the first in the country to force the tobacco and advertising industries to pay for anti-smoking advertisements. 1
 
FINANCING A WOULD-BE SENATOR
Money is coming into the Democratic Senate campaigns of Geraldine A. Ferraro, Elizabeth Holtzman and Robert Abrams from different places. Ms. Ferraro has received nearly a third of her money from contributors who do not live in New York. Ms. Holtzman has relied heavily on investment firms that seek bond underwriting business from her office. Mr. Abrams has received hundreds of thousands of dollars from lawyers. 1
 
BIAGGI'S BACK
Mario Biaggi, the former Bronx Democratic Congressman who was too sick to serve his full prison term, is feeling better. So much better that he is running for Congress again. 1
 
Business Digest 33
 
Consumer's World 11
 
Orwellian dream come true: a badge that pinpoints you.
 
More range, less static in new cordless phones.
 
A dress shoe proud to be a lightweight.
 
Pricetag: Getting a haircut.
 
Guidepost
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-16
 
New sound in a San Francisco concert hall. 13
 
Theater in Review 15
 
Film: "Hellraiser III." 14
 
Music: Music Notes 13
 
Joe Cocker at Radio City. 15
 
Dance: The Yard in New York. 13
 
Sports 28-32
 
Baseball: Saberhagen loses in relief. 31
 
Yanks beat Royals, 2-1. 31
 
Pirates' lead shrinks. 30
 
Column: Rhoden on the N.F.L. 29
 
Football: Will players be free? 29
 
McNeil discusses the free-agency verdict. 32
 
Collins profits from verdict. 32
 
Golf: Bad seniors start for Floyd. 32
 
SportsPeople 28
 
Track: Athletics Congress leader under pressure. 32
 
Tennis: Seles vs. Sanchez Vicario in final. 29
 
Edberg prevails over Lendl. 29
 
Obituaries 10
 
Dr. George Crile Jr., foe of unneeded surgery.
 
Dr. Evelyn B. Man, a biochemist.
 
Harold Louis Humes, a novelist and a Paris Review co-founder.
 
Harriet W. Sheridan, professor and dean at Brown University.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
 
Editorials
 
The Syrian peace shock.
 
Family values from family leave.
 
A wise labor pact.
 
For Civil Court.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Money's best friend.
 
Robert R. Macdonald: Bad blood at a burial ground.
 
Flora Lewis: Civil society, the police and abortion.
 
Katrina vanden Heuvel: Women of Russia, unite!
 
Jonathan M. Tisch: Mugging the tourists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); CROATIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ITALY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); CROATIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ITALY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (63%); BASEBALL (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



338 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Homestead, Trying to Get Up, Is Knocked Flat by Base Vote

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla., Sept. 11

 BODY:
Just as the first glimmers of normalcy have started to appear in the hurricane-battered city of Homestead, more setbacks are arising.
A Winn-Dixie supermarket finally opened Wednesday, the Rite-Aid Pharmacy is filling prescriptions and the traffic light is again operating in the center of Homestead's old downtown, small signs to weary people living without electricity and drinkable water since Aug. 24 that life might someday again be normal. 
 But on Thursday came word that despite pledges by President Bush, Gen. Colin L. Powell, Gov. Lawton Chiles and many local officials, the Senate Appropriations Committee voted not to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, which was virtually destroyed by Hurricane Andrew.
"It's like when you're down and they just keep hitting you," said John Kirkus, a Homestead resident who has worked at the base for 20 years and is now a civilian crew chief for the Air Force Reserve there. "Agriculture's been hit hard, tourism's been hit hard. If you take the base away I think the whole city will fold up."
Today there was more bad news for Homestead. The Cleveland Indians announced that they had put off plans to hold spring training at a newly built stadium in Homestead. City officials said the tin roof over the grandstand was blown off and some sky boxes were torn up, about $10 million in damage.
"We can have the stadium ready, but we can't have the infrastructure back in shape," said Alex Muxo Jr., Homestead's City Manager. The Indians said they weren't sure just where they would be this spring but said they did plan to train in Homestead in 1994 and would play two games here next spring against the Florida Marlins, a new American League expansion team.
Mr. Muxo said the city understood the Cleveland team's decision. But the Senate committee's action on the air base is another matter.
"I don't think it's right to do that," said Tony Johnson, Homestead resident, as he waited at a phone kiosk outside City Hall to talk to an official from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. "What about the people down here?"
The 3,300-acre Homestead base is a mainstay of the local economy and of the town's identity, from the landmark fighter jet that was blown off its pedestal on U.S. 1 to the 8,400 military and civilian personnel it employs and the $405 million it pumps into the local economy each year.
President Bush had included $480 million to rebuild the base in his $7.6 billion rescue plan for South Florida, but the Senate committee voted 12 to 8 to include only $26 million for the base's cleanup as part of a $7.5 billion relief package, which in effect would insure that the base never reopens.
But Homestead is not giving up without a fight. "What people have to understand is that the base shouldn't be an economic issue," said Mr. Muxo. "If the base had a mission prior to Andrew it has a mission after Andrew. We shouldn't take advantage of a natural disaster to close a base."
 
Arguing the Base's Merits
 That was an argument also made by Senator Connie Mack, a Florida Republican, who joined Governor Chiles and Florida's other Senator, Bob Graham, a Democrat, in promising to fight for the base when the President's disaster-aid bill reaches the Senate floor, perhaps Tuesday or Wednesday.
"It's certainly more than just the economic foundation," Senator Mack said in an interview broadcast on Fox Morning News. "It is the base that's the most southern base in the United States, keeping an eye on the Caribbean and on Fidel Castro, and it is also the base that we use for drug interdiction."
Mr. Muxo said that even if the Senate did not reinstate the money, the city would try to persuade the Congressional Base Closure Commission that Homestead should be reopened. Homestead was not included on the commission's list of 34 military bases recommended for closing, but before the storm it was expected to be on a future list.
If all else fails, some here say, perhaps the base could be reconstituted as a second commercial airport for the Miami metropolitan area. But such a solution could be years off, and what the people of Homestead and other towns in south Dade County say they need is help now.
 
Double Sessions at Schools
 The rejection from Washington came after several days of slight, hard-won improvements here. School begins Monday, though 10 schools have been closed. The children from those schools will be sent to other schools, which will hold double sessions.
The Winn-Dixie supermarket was dark today, and many shelves were pockmarked with unfamiliar empty spaces. But the customers did not mind.
"It feels so funny shopping again," said Cynthia McNichols of Homestead. She was in a store, without having to wait in line, for the first time since the storm hit. The first thing she reached for was laundry detergent. "The laundromat's just opened up too," she said.
The supermarket's bakery and cheese shop were up and running, but the fish counter was dark because the store didn't have the water to make ice.
Health officials today lifted orders to boil water before drinking it in all of Dade County except Homestead and Florida City, which could be cleared next week. Banks are open, some gas stations have gasoline and no lines, and the Checkers fast-food restaurant had a line of about 20 people this afternoon.
Up in Goulds, about 10 miles north of Homestead, Kim Marie Ernspiker was looking forward to getting her mail delivered on Monday, even though she has been told not to expect electricity until Thanksgiving. Rod Jude, who grows ornamental plants in Goulds, was expecting a shipment of wood this afternoon to rebuild large sheds blown away by the hurricane.
In Florida City, the Last Chance Saloon, on the edge of the Everglades, was serving beer to shirtless construction workers and bar hogs who have come in to get out of the sun. A sign spray-painted on the plywood over the front windows facing U.S. 1 proclaimed, "This is really your last chance now."
Across the road, Mel Riff, in a striped polo shirt and wearing a diamond-studded Mercedes Benz ring, was busy selling mobile homes even though hundreds of them had been obliterated in the storm's high winds.
"Only four people got killed in this disaster in mobile homes, out of 6,000 units," he said. "That's not good but its not as bad as people are led to believe."
So far, 100 people have put down deposits on new homes since Mr. Riff set up his operation on Sunday.
Judy Allen of Fort Lauderdale was there Thursday with her 76-year-old father-in-law, Gordon Allen, whose mobile home was destroyed. He signed a check for a down payment on a new one costing more than $20,000 that would go in the same space as the old one.
"What he wants is the same comaraderie he had before," said Mrs. Allen. "The same group played poker every afternoon, bingo on a couple of nights and had good-bye parties to the snow birds when they left to go back home."
Mr. Allen wants what he had before and that, in essence, is what everyone here wants, even if they realize how unlikely that is.
"People now are worrying about laundry detergent and deodorant instead of food and water," said Katie Mitchell, an assistant city manager in Homestead. "But are we getting back to normal? Normal radically changed on August 24th."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mel Riff in Florida City, Fla., was busy selling mobile homes even though hundreds like them had been obliterated in the storm's high winds. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CLEV (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL CO INC (57%); US AIR FORCE (56%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS US AIR FORCE (56%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOMESTEAD (FLA) UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); HURRICANE ANDREW HURRICANES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POWER FAILURES (73%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



339 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Republicans;
JET SALE TO SAUDIS APPROVED BY BUSH, SAVING JOBS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Sept. 11

 BODY:
President Bush tore apart his campaign schedule today to put on another demonstration of the powers of the Oval Office, dropping into St. Louis to hand out what the White House called a $9 billion deal to sell advanced F-15 fighters to Saudi Arabia.
It was the second time in nine days that Mr. Bush had dispensed this sort of plum contract to the American arms industry, helping secure thousands of jobs in states like Missouri, Texas and California, where a major part of the battle for the Presidency will be fought this fall. 
 Mr. Bush made the announcement at a time when it poses the least political risk. With the Labor Party's ascension to power in Israel and clear signs of progress in the Middle East peace process, neither the Israeli Government nor American Jews are likely to put up the sort of opposition to the sale that they might have just a few months ago.
 
Congress Unlikely to Block Sale
 Congress, which has 30 days to try to block the sale if it chooses to do so, is unlikely to oppose a job-saving deal of this kind during a campaign that is turning on the nation's sluggish economy and high unemployment rate.
According to the White House, the President has now given out more than $23 billion in Federal subsidies, foreign arms-sales contracts and hurricane-related disaster assistance in slightly more than a week as he campaigns for re-election in a nation gripped by recession and, according to opinion polls, unhappy with Mr. Bush's economic performance.
Some of this largess, notably the disaster relief, comes at the expense of taxpayers. But the arms sales, particularly, bring new money into the country. Last week the President flew to Fort Worth to announce a $6 billion sale of 150 F-16 fighters to Taiwan. Today he canceled an appearance at a trucking company in Joplin, Mo., at the last minute and flew to the McDonnell Douglas aircraft plant here for about a half hour to tell a cheering crowd that he was approving the sale of 72 F-15 fighter planes to the Saudis.
 
Compliment to the Workers
 Standing in front of a newly minted F-15, its cockpit canopy ajar, Mr. Bush told the workers that "the military technology you produce is the finest in the world" -- the same compliment that he paid to the F-16 production line at the General Dynamics plant in Texas last week.
"I am aware that the past few years have been difficult for this company and a lot of Americans as they adjust to a new future," Mr. Bush told the McDonnell Douglas workers here, adding, "In this time of economic transition, I want to do everything I can to keep Americans at work."
White House aides and campaign officials explained today's sudden change of plans by saying Mr. Bush had made his final decision on the sale Thursday night. But it had been widely known in Washington that the decision was made, by and large, after Mr. Bush received assurances from Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin last month that the Israeli Government would not object.
Today the Conference of Presidents of American Jewish Organizations said it was "wary" of the proposed sale but pointedly did not mention any plans to fight it -- especially since the President had given assurances that he intended "to maintain Israel's qualitative edge" in armaments, the organization's statement said.
In Washington this afternoon, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney met with the Israeli Ambassador, Zalman Shoval, apparently to reassure him of Washington's commitment to maintaining Israel's technological edge in the region.
In Congress, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, has made it clear he would support the sale. It would, after all, produce jobs in or near his district.
 
Some Objection Expressed
 But Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, the ranking Republican on the Senate Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, did offer a commonly voiced objection when he said: "I'm greatly disturbed about it. If we're the world leader and if we're serious about the proliferation of weapons in the Middle East, we ought not be out front selling to Saudi Arabia. We ought to be leaning extremely hard on the British and anyone else not to sell to them."
The announcement lent some news value to what was otherwise a day of small-bore events in small Missouri towns where Mr. Bush promoted his economic programs.
At Missouri Southern State College in Joplin, the glee club warmed up the crowd by singing "It's My Party and I'll Cry If I Want To." Gazing out at the campus lawn, Mr. Bush spoke of the First Family's dog, saying, "I think Millie would like it out here in this oval, I'll tell you."
In Joplin and at a job training center in Excelsior Springs near Kansas City, Mr. Bush tried out a new punch line intended for its television appeal. Borrowing from the popular horror film series "Nightmare on Elm Street" to press his argument that the Democratic nominee, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, is trying to play on fear in his campaign, Mr. Bush said, "Governor Clinton is running a Freddy Krueger candidacy."
 
Speech Before Robertson Group
 Mr. Bush left Missouri for Virginia Beach, where he spoke tonight to the Rev. Pat Robertson's political organization, a chore that Mr. Bush finds politically necessary as he seeks to shore up his right wing.
The speech was at the Founders Inn, part of a convention center complex owned by the Christian Broadcasting Network, and it has a policy of hiring only Christians, said Gene Kapp, the network's media director.
"The hiring policy is the same as that of the Chistian Broadcasting Network" as a whole, he added.
As a matter of policy, the F-15 sale did not carry the same impact as the sale of the planes to Taiwan, which marked a reversal of 10 years of American policy. The United States has sold 93 F-15's to Saudi Arabia over the years, starting in the Carter Administration. But as a matter of politics, both sales carried the same implications as Mr. Bush tries to put the power of his incumbency behind his campaign for re-election.
White House aides and Pentagon officials said the sale would produce $9 billion in revenue, $5 billion for the 72 planes themselves and the rest in contracts for parts and maintenance, and generate $3 billion in taxes. The White House said it would save 40,000 jobs in Missouri, California, Connecticut and 42 other states.
Without the deal, the F-15 production line would shut down in November. The Bush Administration canceled the F-15 program as part of the cuts in military spending.
 
Jobs Termed 'Major Factor'
 The White House insisted, as it has with each measure of Federal largess Mr. Bush has doled out in recent days, that his action today had nothing to do with the campaign. "It provides a credible Saudi defensive deterrent, helps protect vital American interests in the Persian Gulf and reduces the amount of U.S. force needed in the region," a White House statement said.
Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said the jobs involved were a "major factor" in the decision. But Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said, "Anybody who says that an announcement of the sale in 1992 is for politics is full of beans."
Mr. Bond predicted that the sale would not be blocked by Congress, which does not have to give its approval but can block the deal with a two-thirds majority vote within 30 days.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Satellites for China
 WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 (AP) -- Waiving legislative restrictions, the State Department announced today that China would be allowed to buy six communications satellites, a decision that could yield worth more than $650 million for United States exporters.
It was the latest of the election-year announcements increasing exports and protecting jobs for American workers.
The export of satellite technology to China has been barred since the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators there in 1989, unless the Bush Administration issued a waiver. The exports affected by today's announcement are for the Apstart, Asiasat 2, Intelsat VIIA, Starsat, AfriStar and Dong Fang Hong 3 projects.
 
 
 
THE PRESIDENT'S PROMISES
 Since the Republican National Convention, President Bush has made a variety of proposals and promises that would provide benefits to special economic sectors or geographic regions. Here is a summary:
 
Sept. 1, Homestead, Fla. -- Visting the Florida sites most damaged by the hurricane, he committed the Government to footing the entire cost of rebuilding the region's shattered schools, bridges, hospitals, roads and other public facilities and pledged to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base. On Sept. 8, he asked Congress for $7.6 billion to help hurricane victims in both Florida and Louisiana, including $500 million for the Homestead Air Force base reconstruction.
 
Sept. 2, Fort Worth, Tex. -- At a General Dynamics Corporation plant, he announced that he had approved the sale of up to 150 of the company's F-16 fighters to Taiwan, a deal that could eventually bring American factories up to $6 billion in contracts and related benefits.
 
Sept. 2, Humboldt, S.D. and Shallowater, Tex. -- The same day, he told farmers he would spend $1 billion to subsidize American wheat sales abroad. He also promised $755 million more in aid to farmers whose crops were damaged by Hurricane Andrew and by flooding in East Texas last spring.
 
Yesterday, St. Louis -- Speaking to workers at the McDonnell-Douglas Corporation, he announces approval of the sale of 72 F-15 jet fighters to Saudi Arabia, a sale valued at as much as $9 billion and expected to save the jobs of 7,000 military workers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Security agents had to pull President Bush back from supporters yesterday in Excelsior Springs, Mo., and Gov. Bill Clinton greeted students after speaking at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (74%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (51%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSOURI; TEXAS; CALIFORNIA ; SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (74%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ARMS SALES ABROAD; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; F-15 AIRPLANE; ELECTION ISSUES; LABOR US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); APPROVALS (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (66%); HURRICANES (65%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); TRUCKING (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



340 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Half-price summer air fares were a disaster for the airline industry, analysts say. Although the low fares put record numbers of passengers into airplanes, they did little to help an industry that has lost more than $6 billion in the last two years. [Page 1.]
McDonnell Douglas will be able to retain one of its largest and most lucrative weapons programs and preserve thousands of jobs as a result of the Bush Administration's decision to approve a multibillion-dollar sale of F-15 fighter jets to Saudi Arabia. [35.]
Honda will end its participation in Formula One auto racing to turn its attention to making low-polluting engines. [35.]
A U.S. decision not to build a nuclear plant used to make atomic weapons is a blow to two groups of industrial companies. [5.]
The New York Times announced three major editing appointments. Jack Rosenthal, editorial page editor, will become editor of The New York Times Magazine and an assistant managing editor; Howell Raines, Washington editor, will succeed him, and Warren Hoge, an assistant managing editor and editor of the magazine, will take charge of culture and style coverage and other features. [9.]
A bankruptcy judge set a new deadline for resolving who is to own The Daily News. Mortimer B. Zuckerman now has until Thursday to reach agreements with those opposing his bid. [25.]
G. Fox & Company stores will be closed and merged into the Filene's chain by their parent, May Department Stores. [26.]
 
 The Economy
The Justice Department sought a heavy prison sentence for the manager of the Atlanta branch of the Italian-owned Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, who pleaded guilty to charges involving an estimated $5 billion in unauthorized loans to Iraq. [33.]
Prices paid by wholesalers rose only one-tenth of 1 percent in August despite big increases in fruits and vegetables. [34.]
 
International
London's standing as a financial center is being challenged byEuropean unification, the expansion of stock markets on the Continent and the growing dominance of Germany. [33.]
The Commerce Department moved to impose punitive customs duties on steel from certain foreign companies. [33.]
With Italy's lira slipping closer to devaluation and the country's huge deficit swelling, the Prime Minister faces an autumn of discontent after a summer in which he could do no wrong. [2.]
Boris N. Yeltsin denounced the Russian central bank, saying its policies were pushing the Russian economy toward an abyss. [3.]
Ireland's prime minister is coming to the United States to urge companies to open operations in his country. [4.]
 
 Markets
The stock market drifted through an indecisive session, with the Dow average inching ahead 0.54 point, to 3,305.70. [36.]
Treasury bond prices fell despite good news on inflation as investors sold securities for technical reasons. [36.]
The dollar rose against most currencies amid growing pressure on Germany to lower its interest rates. [43.] The forecast for a larger wheat and soybean harvest sent grain prices lower. [43.]
 
Today's Columns
Jake, a 2 1/2-foot gold-plated robot who "sees" in color through a camera in his right eye, "hears" out of both his pointy ears and works a crowd like a politician is a new kind of Hollywood movie star, according to his inventor. Patents. [33.]
I.R.A. holders who reach 70 1/2 this year must begin taking money out of their accounts or be penalized. But most people, including financial professionals, don't know that there are two methods allowed by the I.R.S. Jan Rosen: Your Money. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ITALY (73%); IRELAND (66%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: G FOX (54%); MACY'S INC (54%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (53%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ITALY (73%); IRELAND (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); FORMULA ONE RACING (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); AUTO RACING (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); DEVALUATION (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); SENTENCING (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); JUDGES (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (62%); BOND MARKETS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



341 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Lucrative McDonnell Aircraft Gets a Reprieve

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 11

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's decision today to approve a multibillion-dollar sale of F-15 fighter jets to Saudi Arabia will allow the McDonnell Douglas Corporation to retain one of its largest and most lucrative weapons programs. The sale, which is expected to be approved by Congress, will also preserve thousands of jobs in the military industry at a time when Pentagon spending is declining.
St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas, the nation's largest military supplier, has no new orders for the F-15 beyond the 45 that will be delivered to the United States Air Force beginning in 1994. The contractor had said that without the Saudi order for 72 jets, the F-15 production line would close, leading to the loss of as many as 40,000 aerospace jobs, including those of subcontractors nationwide. 
 The Saudi deal, valued at $5.6 billion, is expected to increase McDonnell Douglas's revenues by about 10 percent a year through 1997, aerospace industry analysts said, adding that the deal would allow the company to seek additional F-15 orders. The analysts said that Israel and Germany were potential customers and that the United States Air Force might place additional orders.
 
Analyst Sees a Reprieve
 "The F-15 is one of the most mature and profitable weapons programs around, and the Saudi sale really gives it a new lease on life," said Jerry Cantwell, an analyst who follows the aerospace industry for Wertheim Schroder & Company. Mr. Cantwell predicted that the Saudi purchase would increase McDonnell's revenues by $800 million to $1 billion a year.
The Saudi deal will keep the F-15 assembly line, which was scheduled to close by 1994, open through 1997, saving an estimated 6,000 jobs in St. Louis and Tulsa, Okla., where the two main production plants are situated. McDonnell Douglas officials said yesterday that the sale might allow them to call back some of the 1,000 workers who have already been laid off because of declines in F-15 production.
In California, the contract is expected to save 4,000 jobs and generate $1.5 billion in business for the Hughes Aircraft Company's radar system divisions in El Segundo and Fullerton and 300 other subcontractors in Southern California.
The company, some subcontractors and several labor unions have waged an intense lobbying effort in recent weeks to persuade the Administration to approve the sale.
Nancy Colaguori, a spokeswoman for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, which makes the F-15's engines, said yesterday that the Saudi contract would preserve 1,300 manufacturing jobs at a Pratt & Whitney plant in Hartford and 200 research and development jobs in Florida.
Saudi Arabia has asked to buy 48 F-15E and 24 F-15H planes. The F-15E is an advanced air-to-ground attack version of the F-15, which the Air Force used during the war with Iraq. The F-15H is a two-seat version for air-to-air combat.
 
Less Radar Capability
 Under the plan announced today, the Administration approved the sale of 72 F-15's, without specifying which version could be sold; that will be determined later. Officials of McDonnell Douglas said the Administration had excluded the F-15E from the sale, so the Saudis would receive a less-sophisticated version of the F-15 that has less radar capability.
As the nation's biggest military contractor, McDonnell Douglas has benefited greatly from the weapons buildup during the 1980's, but it has been suffering of late as three of its largest production programs -- the F-15, the Marine Corps' AV-8B Harrier attack jet and the Army's AH-64 Apache helicopter -- faced cancellation in the next few years.
Analysts said yesterday that the profit margins on the deal should be high for McDonnell Douglas, which long ago recovered its initial investment in the F-15 program.
"As long as you keep the production line open there's always hope that further business will come along in the form of foreign sales," said Paul H. Nisbet, an analyst with Prudential Securities. Mr. Nisbet had estimated that McDonnell Douglas would earn $12 to $13 a share in 1995, 1996, and 1997. He now expects a 10 percent increase because of the Saudi business.
 
'Substantial Benefit'
 John F. McDonnell, the chairman and chief executive of McDonnell Douglas, said the $5.6 billion contract would be of "substantial benefit" to the company. "I really do not want to project earnings but you can assume it will have a normal earnings rate for a production program," he said.
While McDonnell Douglas officials declined to say what the Saudi sale would mean to company's finances, industry analysts speculated that the contractor would use the infusion of cash from the sale to reduce debt. As of this year's second quarter, McDonnell Douglas had $2.8 billion of debt.
Shares of McDonnell Douglas closed today at $42.75, up 62.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of jobs were probably saved on the F-15 assembly line at the McDonnell Douglas Corporation's St. Louis plant by the Bush Administration's approval yesterday of plane sales to Saudi Arabia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (94%); SCHRODER & CO INC (66%); RAYTHEON CO (63%); PRATT & WHITNEY (51%); US AIR FORCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP US AIR FORCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: F-15 AIRPLANE; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (88%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); NEW ORDERS (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); RADAR SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



342 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Challenge to London's Lofty Role

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
This city's standing as a major financial center has survived the end of the British Empire, the rise in economic power of New York and Tokyo and the rapid changes that have swept banking, insurance and the securities business.
Now London is being challenged again, this time by the fitful movement toward European unification, the expansion of stock markets on the Continent and the growing dominance of Germany over Europe's economic affairs. 
 Despite an intense lobbying campaign, London will almost certainly lose out to Frankfurt or another city on the Continent when the European Community chooses a site for the planned European central bank. That loss, though a blow to London's prestige, would be largely symbolic. And if plans for European unification are derailed when France votes on whether to accept the unification treaty later this month, the notion of a central bank might even become moot.
 
Stock Markets Grow
 But London faces other issues that will not fade even if the pace of European economic integration is slowed. The growth and modernization of stock markets in Frankfurt, Paris and other European trading centers is likely to nibble away at the dominance of the City, London's financial district. German financial institutions are ahead in the race to build a presence in Eastern Europe, perhaps leaving London a secondary share of a market that is hungry for financial services. Frankfurt and other cities are trying to develop expertise in emerging markets like the trading of bonds denominated in European Currency Units, a business now centered in London.
"Within Europe the potential competition in financial services comes primarily from Frankfurt and Paris, and it is the prospect of a single market in financial services within Europe that has led to the possibility of significant shifts in market share," said a report on London's future as a financial center that was issued this summer by a team at the London Business School.
A falloff in London's standing would be a major blow to the prestige of Britain, a nation that has difficulty claiming to remain a world power. And the effects of any erosion in London's position could be practical as well as symbolic. In 1989, 620,000 people -- or one out of every six people employed -- worked in financial services in London, making it the biggest employer here.
Government officials and industry executives here and throughout Europe said that London retained formidable strengths and was unlikely to cede to Frankfurt, Paris or any other city its role as Europe's financial capital, at least not anytime soon.
With the world's currencies being roiled by the rise in value of the German mark and the decline of the dollar, it is London that dominates the foreign-exchange markets, with an estimated 25 percent of all currency trading, compared with 17 percent for New York, according to a survey by the Bank for International Settlements, which is a clearinghouse for central banks and a forum for policy coordination.
As the securities and banking businesses have become increasingly global, the number of foreign banks and securities firms in London has continued to grow. The number of foreign banks operating here topped 500 last year, nearly triple the level 20 years ago. The number of foreign securities firms grew to 160 last year, almost four times as many as in 1970.
Executives here said that London might lose some types of business to the Continent, especially in stock and bond trading. But they said that London, which unlike New York and Tokyo is focused primarily on international financial transactions rather than its domestic market, stands to gain business over all from the surge in international finance activities that is accompanying the establishment of a single European market. If Europe does hold to its current plan of having a single currency before the end of the decade, they said, London would be especially qualified to handle the industry's pan-European financing needs.
"Business gravitates to the entity that has the greatest comparative advantage," said the London Business School study, which was commissioned by the Corporation of London, the local governmental authority in the City. "If London has, as its dominance suggests, such an advantage in the production of financial services, then there is reason to believe that freer trade in financial services will be to London's benefit."
 
Gains for Frankfurt and Paris
 Still, many financial institutions that have always seen London as the primary place from which to do business across Europe and around the world said they increasingly saw other cities offering new opportunities that London might not be able to match. Most banks and investment houses are beefing up their presences in Frankfurt, Paris and other cities, although not, so far, at the expense of their operations in London. Merrill Lynch, for example, is moving more heavily into Germany, where it is seeking to expand its business selling German stocks and bonds.
"No one thinks Frankfurt will be bigger than London in a few years," said Peter Dietlmaier, an executive at Deutsche Bank A.G. in Frankfurt. "But Frankfurt could be the major place for bankers looking for business in continental Europe, and with the new structures in the stock exchanges it could also be the place for investors on the Continent."
The dominant financial trend in Europe now, industry executives said, is the expansion of domestic capital markets in Germany, France and other nations. More companies are starting to adopt United States-style pension funds, a trend that should increase institutional investing on the Continent. Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd. estimated recently that there could be a doubling of assets under institutional management in Europe in this decade.
"There's going to be a flowering of equity market capitalization throughout the rest of Europe," said Giles Keating, the chief economist for Credit Suisse First Boston in London.
Initially at least, those funds will tend to be invested in local markets. German pension fund managers, for example, will tend to invest in German markets, analysts said. That trend will help those local markets grow rapidly and become more liquid, increasing their appeal to foreign investors as well. As a result, some executives said, London could lose some portion of its business.
 
'Bound to Decrease'
 "London's share of financial market activity is bound to decrease as a percentage of the whole," said Herschel Post, the chief operating officer at Lehman Brothers International in London. "The Germans, for example, will take great pride in building their own markets and doing business in Germany with German-speaking personnel."
But Mr. Post said that at the same time, the development of the single European market would encourage more cross-border financial and investment transactions. Since international transactions have long been London's strength, much of that business will flow to the City.
"Within the E.C. the trends are overwhelmingly toward increased interpenetration of markets," Mr. Post said. "That means London has a huge advantage over Frankfurt, Paris and Milan, all of which do their best to make foreigners feel like chumps."
But executives here said that London would have to overcome a number of problems to insure its pre-eminence in international finance. Within the securities industry there has been considerable unhappiness over the slow pace at which the London Stock Exchange has introduced a new paperless settlement system. Some executives said that the national Government had failed to be as responsive to the needs of the financial services industry as governments in France and other nations, which have made concerted efforts to overhaul securities and tax regulations in an effort to attract more foreign investors.
So far, most executives here, while insisting they are not blind to the problems facing London, remain relatively sanguine.
"I think London will settle down to having a good future," said the head of one large investment bank here, who asked not to be identified. "Bits of the business will depart to places like Frankfurt, and bits will go back to New York. This will be a blip that takes a while to recover from, but it's not the end of London as a financial center."

GRAPHIC: Photo: London's powerful financial district could lose ground to Frankfurt, Paris and other European trading centers even if the European unification treaty is not ratified later this month. The NatWest Tower, left, and the Stock Exchange are pictured on Throgmorton Street in London. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Comparing the Leading Markets" show share of the international banking business by region, in percent, 1986-1991 and market share of the world's leading stock exchanges, in percent. (Sources: Bank for International Settlements, London Business School, London Stock Exchange)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; LONDON (ENG); GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; FRANKFURT (GERMANY) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); BONDS (72%); GERMAN MARK (71%); LOBBYING (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



343 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Off the Trail -- Visits with Americans;
2 Old Truman Hands Guard the Boss's Name

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CATONSVILLE, Md., Sept. 9

 BODY:
This year the spin doctors are trying to spin time itself. But amid the confusion of memories welling up lately from 11 Presidential campaigns ago, there is an old whistle-stop speech writer here who recalls with first-hand authority how his boss, President Harry S. Truman, used a word -- "trimmer" -- to tersely dismiss any fellow politician he rated a hypocrite.
"He'd say 'trimmer' for anyone who would say one thing and do another," recalled David H. Stowe, an 82-year-old veteran of the Truman White House. "Like Bush saying 'no new taxes,' " said the weathered partisan who served his master variously, from poker table to the now fondly remembered 1948 campaign. That was the classic come-from-behind victory that, incongruously for this nostalgia-filled retiree, President Bush has lately been invoking. 
 "Trimmer," declared Mr. Stowe, legally blind and somewhat lame lately but still well in tune with the mind of Truman. "He'd say, 'Ah, that feller's just a trimmer.' "
There were a great many elements that made the 1948 campaign something to remember. One was the decision to scrap the boring "Missouri Waltz" and have the high school bands in the first Texas whistle-stop tour play the far more snappy "I'm Just Wild About Harry."
 
Believer in Politics
 This was the decision -- made without benefit of private market testing or op-ed debate about political correctness -- of Donald Dawson, still a far from retired Washington lawyer who can lay claim to having served as the first modern advance man. He was a pioneer on-the-road scout and trouble-shooter, master of a political art both plodding and subtle that he cherishes anew each campaign autumn for the remembered moments with Truman.
"If the Boss saw 20 people out the window, he'd stop the train," Mr. Dawson recalled in his law office, a short walk from past glory down the block from the White House. "The back platform of the train is where he really hit the people. Off the cuff, he was the best. And he was never afraid about politics."
The idea of not being afraid about politics, of a candidate's trusting the process if only he or she could talk plainly and patiently about issues in front of enough people, was central in Truman's 1948 strategy. Mr. Dawson contends people have not really changed and this approach might work again. But Mr. Stowe has his doubts, in this age when a campaign is strained through the television chamois, voters settle for packaged glimpses, and gaffes draw more consideration than policy positions.
"Truman would have considered television sound bites horrible," he said. The very hypothesis of Truman as a modern politician supporting a tax increase as President and then apologizing for it later as a candidate lends extra amusement to Mr. Stowe's retirement.
 
Still Full of 'Dingers'
 "He raised taxes in 1947 and '48, the campaign year, across the board," Mr. Stowe said of a time when the incumbent's task was to remind people of post-war prosperity and not, as with President Bush's lot, of a badly stalled economy. "Truman said it was like running a family: When you have money, you pay your bills," Mr. Stowe remembered of Truman's campaign talk of taxes.
"I think Clinton is saying something like that this year, though he's just talking about the upper 2 percent tax bracket," the old Democrat continued, smiling slightly as he withheld the "trimmer" label from his party's latest standard bearer.
" 'Tax and spend Democrats'? Why is that worse than 'Borrow and Spend Republicans'?" asked the Fair Dealer. Mr. Stowe laughed at the politics of words. "Maybe I should be writing some of the stuff this year."
Truman loved "clean, rough" partisanship and not pretending to be nonpolitical, said Mr. Stowe. He does a perfect imitation of his President reading a fresh speech from "the Boys," his staff. Truman would arrive at a particularly bare-knuckled touch of partisanship and exult: "That's a dinger! That's a dinger!"
 
Grand Old Days of the Party
 "But when he delivered the speech the dinger usually wasn't there and we figured the fine hand of Mrs. Truman might be at work," said Mr. Stowe.
Out in America, Mr. Dawson learned that real crowd-gathering partisanship was rooted in the old party clubhouses and organizations, not in the sort of telegenic amorphousness of today's campaigns.
"The parties collected the money in those days, but now the PAC's do and so candidates are beholden to a 'cause,' not the party," he said ruefully, of modern political action committees. "I meet people now who say, 'My mother was a precinct worker for the party back then in Philadelphia. She had her heart and soul in it.' Well, that's lost now," said the advance man, looking back to when he couldn't wait for the train to pull up before the whistle-stop crowds so Truman could emerge on the back platform to give the other side more hell.
"My job was to be a jump ahead, getting kids out of school early, finding free buses, whatever it took," said Mr. Dawson. "When the President caught up with me at each stop, I'd brief him on the local situation and he'd quickly adapt his direct comments. His spur of the moment stuff was so good. He always wanted to talk about things the people wanted to know.
"Wonderful," said Mr. Dawson, smiling as his memory darted ahead then doubled back like an advance man along one of the most exhaustive and fruitful hustings in history. In a way, he and Mr. Stowe, the advance man and the speech writer, are still working on the '48 campaign, shielding it from myth, protecting their enduring memory of Truman as he worked tirelessly at a kind of politics that seems charming now in the retrospect of the latest campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Truman said it was like running a family: When you have money, you pay your bills," said David H. Stowe, a speech writer for Harry S. Truman, of Truman's campaign talk of taxes. With Mr. Stowe was his wife, Mildred, in their apartment in Catonsville, Md. "When the President caught up with me at each stop, I'd brief him on the local situation and he'd quickly adapt his direct comments," said Donald Dawson, another Truman aide. "His spur of the moment stuff was so good. He always wanted to talk about things the people wanted to know." (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1948 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LAWYERS (65%); 

PERSON: TRUMAN, HARRY S (1884-1972); STOWE, DAVID H; DAWSON, DONALD D; CLINES, FRANCIS X GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



344 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 0.54 in Indecisive Session

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The stock market drifted through an indecisive session yesterday, making little headway after the rally of the last two sessions.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials inched ahead 0.54, to 3,305.70, finishing the holiday-shortened week with a net gain of 23.77 points. 
 Declining issues led advances by a slight margin on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume came to 180.6 million shares against 222 million in the previous session.
The day began with some favorable, but expected, news on inflation. The Labor Department reported that the Producer Price Index of Finished Goods edged up only one-tenth of a percent in August. The so-called core index, which excludes the volatile food and energy components, dropped one-tenth of a percent after rising two-tenths of a percent in July.
 
Optimism Reinforced
 Analysts said that news reinforced Wall Street's optimism that inflation remained subdued. Similarly upbeat news is expected next week in the Consumer Price Index report for last month.
Stock traders seemed to have other uncertainties on their minds, however, including the recent tumult in European interest rates and currency markets.
National Semiconductor was the volume leader, down 1/8 at 11 7/8, on turnover of more than 2.29 million shares, after rising 7/8 on Thursday, when the company reported first-quarter earnings of 17 cents a share, compared with a loss in the corresponding period a year earlier.
Auto stocks were steady to lower in active trading. General Motors dropped 3/8, to 33 5/8; Ford Motor fell 1 1/8, to 40 1/4, and Chrysler was off 1/8, to 21 3/8.
Biomet, traded in the over-the-counter market, fell 3 1/2, to 18. Analysts noted disappointment over the company's latest quarterly earnings, which were 13 cents a share against 10 cents a share a year earlier.
 
Octel Gains 2
 Octel Communications, another Nasdaq stock, jumped 2, to 22 3/4. The company, which produces voice information-processing equipment, announced an agreement to acquire Tigon, a voice-message service bureau, from Ameritech.
American depository shares of Japanese companies declined broadly after the Tokyo market fell overnight, prompting fears that the rally in Japan since mid-August might have run its course.
Matsushita Electric fell 6, to 96; Kyocera 2 5/8, to 59 5/8; Hitachi 1 7/8, to 63 1/2, and TDK 1/2, to 28 1/4.
Pall, traded on the American Stock Exchange, added 1/8, to 28 5/8, on top of a 1 3/4-point gain Thursday, when the company posted higher earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended Aug. 1.
The Amex market-value index rose 1.64, to 386.45, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 1.77, to 583.01. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 0.37, to 419.58, and the New York Stock Exchange index gained 0.02, to 230.80.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%); T (NYSE) (52%); KYO (NYSE) (51%); 6971 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); BIOMET INC (53%); AT&T INC (52%); OCTEL COMMUNICATIONS CORP (52%); KYOCERA CORP (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); CURRENCIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



345 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: As Military Cuts Back, It Still Seeks Recruits

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla.

 BODY:
At a time when the Pentagon is actually paying people to leave the services, the military is having trouble signing up tens of thousands of new troops, in part because of the overwhelming perception that new recruits are not needed or wanted.
Not so, military officials say. While they are thinning out the middle and higher ranks for a smaller, post-cold war force, the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps still need recruits to insure that the armed forces are properly proportioned for the future. 
 Indeed, the Army alone is aiming to bring in 85,000 new enlisted troops next year; right now it is about 10 percent behind in the number of recruits it has signed up.
In the last five months the Marine Corps has met its goal three times, the Air Force twice and the Navy once; the Army has not reached its goals in any of the last five months.
Through August the Army had met 91 percent of its overall signup goal for 1992, the Air Force 95 percent, the Navy 101 percent and the Marine Corps 103 percent. Strong recruiting earlier this year masked the more recent negative figures.
With the military's recruitment advertising budget nearly cut in half in the last four years -- to $79.4 million next year from $154.9 million in 1989 -- military officials fear that the trend will only worsen.
"I'm not panicking, but the numbers are disturbing," Maj. Gen. Jack C. Wheeler, the head of the Army's recruiting command, said recently. "We're not satisfied with our contracting goals, and it's across the country."
In response, the military is trying new tactics and sweetening incentives. Recruiters have increased signing bonuses to as much as $8,000 for such specialties as nurses and military intelligence analysts. For the first time in two years, new recruits can choose their first post. And recruiters are spending less time on the phone and more time shaking hands in shopping malls, speaking to civic groups and knocking on doors in neighborhoods with children of high school age.
"The last few years we've used more passive techniques," said Brig. Gen. Michael G. Vergamini, commander of the Air Force's recruiting service. "Now recruiters are having to knock some of the rust off" their other recruiting methods.
The military is in no immediate danger of running short of recruits. Every year each service determines how many new enlisted personnel it needs. Recruiters then try to sign up slightly more than they need because 10 to 20 percent of signups drop out at the last minute because of medical problems, a change of heart or other reasons.
Enlisted men and women make up about 85 percent of the 1.9-million-member force on active duty. There are no shortages of new officers, who come mainly from the service academies and Reserve Officer Training Corps programs.
 
Decline Despite Recession
 "The principal problem is that people don't realize we're still hiring," said Rear Adm. Jon M. Barr, the Navy's head of recruiting.
Even more puzzling, recruiters say, is that the decline has come during a recession, normally a boon for recruiters, who can offer educational benefits, job security and training skills to prospective soldiers, sailors and airmen.
"There's a lot of concern right now because it doesn't make sense, given the economy and our incentives," said Col. Rob Enyeart, who is responsible for Army recruiting in 10 Southern and central states.
Recruiters also say the Persian Gulf war vividly illustrated the horrors of combat, and has scared off some prospects.
Some lawmakers think recruiters have had it easy in the last several years and could learn some lessons in efficiency. The services typically maintain separate recruiting offices in the same city. Some lawmakers say the services should share office space, but interservice rivalry for a dwindling pool of prospects makes that unlikely.
The House of Representatives has trimmed $75 million from the military's $542.5 million overall recruiting budget for the fiscal year 1993, which begins on Oct. 1, and the Senate is threatening to cut even deeper. Senator David Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat, has introduced legislation to reduce recruiting costs to $4,700 per recruit, compared with the Pentagon's request of about $5,700 per recruit for the next fiscal year.
 
Fewer Recruiters, Too
 In response, military officials say they have already tightened their belts. National radio and print advertising has been sharply curtailed, and the military plans to resume using television commercials this fall for the first time in about a year.
The number of recruiters will decline to 19,600 next year from 21,726 in 1989, and the number of recruiting stations to 6,300 from 8,100 in the same period. But the number of new recruits the military needs has also dropped.
Even in recruiting strongholds like northern Florida and the rest of the South, recruiters are feeling the pinch. Sgt. 1st Class James M. Ray, the commander of the Army recruiting station in western Jacksonville, said his station had usually surpassed its monthly signup goal.
Last spring, however, the station squeaked by, making its goal only in the last few days of each month. In August the station signed up only one of its nine assigned contracts and will probably miss its quarterly goal of 23 contracts by the end of September.
Staff Sgt. Tony Connell, an Army recruiter here, was filling up at a gas station one day recently when he leaned across the pump and asked another motorist if he would like to join the Army.
"My first reaction was, this guy must be desperate or we're going to war with Saddam Hussein again," said the motorist, Richard Leiva, a 23-year-old hairdresser, who was impressed enough by Sergeant Connell's sales pitch to consider joining the Army if he passes an aptitude test.
Recruiting prospects are so bleak that two of the station's recruiters spent $50 of their own money to print 500 fliers they taped to phone booths, grocery store bulletin boards and laundromats, Sergeant Ray said.
 
'A Miserable Existence'
 In Panama City, 255 miles west of Jacksonville in the Florida Panhandle, Sgt. 1st Class Michael Boatwright's recruiting station has not run a newspaper advertisement in 18 months, has seen its budget for $1,000-an-event promotional dinners dry up, and has cut recruiters' monthly mileage allowances to 1,400 miles from 5,000 miles.
Nonetheless, the station is still surpassing its monthly goals, largely because he works 12 hours a day and six days a week. "It's a miserable existence right now," Sergeant Boatwright said.
Inside the student lounge at Gulf Coast Community College in Panama City, two dozen pairs of curious eyes follow Sgt. Thomas Johnson and Sgt. 1st Class Scott Nicgorski as they stop at tables to introduce themselves and hand out pamphlets.
At one table Sergeant Johnson finds a receptive audience in Paul Ruffino, a 19-year-old student who was willing to listen to the prospects of a military career in criminal justice. But at another table, Tia Barker, 18, who is studying to be a coroner, was not persuaded by Sergeant Johnson's offer.
"The trick is to try to think like a teen-ager," Sergeant Johnson said. "They're thinking, 'Is it cool to talk to an Army recruiter?' Some mind, some don't. Some wait till you're gone, their friends are gone, and then sneak back to pick up a pamphlet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Military recruitment has been running behind its goals, forcing recruiters to try new tactics and sweeten incentives. Sgt. 1st Class James M. Ray, left, commander of the Army recruiting station in western Jacksonville, Fla., and Sgt. Paul Ohman talked with a potential recruit, Brandi Bradner. (Kelly LaDuke for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "The Recuitment Gap" shows percentage of 1992 recuitment goal met. (Sources: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps); "Shrinking Budget" shows fiscal year budget for all military recruitment advertising from 1989 thru 1993. (Source: Defense Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); US AIR FORCE (83%); US NAVY (83%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); US AIR FORCE (83%); US NAVY (83%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NAVIES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); NURSES & NURSING (62%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (58%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



346 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Ireland's Prime Minister Coming to U.S. to Prospect for Jobs

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Preparing for his first trip to the United States since he took office seven months ago, Prime Minister Albert Reynolds has no emigrant illusions about the streets of New York and San Francisco being paved with gold.
In the last few years, the American and European recessions have driven tens of thousands of Irish immigrants back home, where they aggravate this country's serious economic problems. These become growing political problems for Mr. Reynolds, whose Government is grappling with what is called a crisis here. The Irish unemployment rate is 20 percent, more than double that of the European Community and about triple that of the United States. 
 But the 57-year-old former Finance Minister and wealthy businessman said in an interview on Thursday that he would try to stir up millions in new American business for Ireland when he talks to company officials after he arrives in New York on Saturday. During his weeklong visit, he is to meet privately with company executives in New York and San Francisco in an effort to persuade them to move part of their operations to Ireland.
 
350 U.S. Companies in Ireland
 There are already more than 350 American companies operating in Ireland, providing more than 40,000 jobs. Mr. Reynolds made a fortune operating dance halls (where he sometimes dressed as a cowboy and sang country and western songs) and a pet-food company (where he is said to have eaten the product to test it).
He said his efforts in the United States would not be a matter of siphoning off American jobs for Ireland in the midst of an American recession. Rather, he said, "these are companies that are going to Europe" anyway. Some of them, he said, are "companies coming close to decisions to come to Ireland and to Europe."
"Sometimes when you're there, you can push the decision over the hill," he said. "The idea is to get more business for Ireland."
He also wants to create a council of Irish-American business leaders who would "help us confront unemployment in Ireland" with expert advice.
He said the companies he would talk to did not want to disclose their names, as this might help competitors. He said the areas of expansion of American business in Ireland would include tourism, particularly the luxury incentive bonus trips that companies give their top performers.
Asked if he would meet any American national political leaders, he said: "Not in an election year. You have to stay out of it." He said he would meet with Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York.
He acknowledged that Mr. Dinkins had championed the cause of Joe Doherty, an Irish Republican Army guerrilla who was convicted of murder in Northern Ireland, escaped and fought extradition from the United States for years until he was finally sent back to Britain last summer. Mr. Doherty, a hero to many Irish-Americans in New York, is virtually unknown in the Republic of Ireland, where the I.R.A. is outlawed and most people express revulsion at its violent campaign in the North.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABCC (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3581 AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRELAND (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS COMPUTERS CORP (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS NETWORK INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PRINTING INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS EQUIPMENT INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CARDS INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SERVICES INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PRODUCTS INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SERVICE & COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS INFORMATION INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ALLIANCE INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS INSURANCE INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS SYSTEMS INC (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS FORWARDERS CORP (85%); AMERICAN BUSINESS PARTNERS (85%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND UNITED STATES (99%); IRELAND (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MURDER (50%); EXTRADITION (50%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, ALBERT (PRIME MIN); CLARITY, JAMES F MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



347 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
CLINTON SAYS FOES SOW INTOLERANCE

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SOUTH BEND, Ind. Sept. 11

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton today accused his Republican opponents of promoting a renewed "intolerance" that would divide the nation along religious lines.
Speaking at the University of Notre Dame in a tone that was at times confessional and at times like a homily to the converted, Mr. Clinton, a Southern Baptist, emphasized his ties to Catholicism. He also extemporaneously defended himself against repeated shouts and heckling from anti-abortion demonstrators scattered around the Stepan Center here. 
 "I want an America that values the freedom and the dignity of the individual," Mr. Clinton said. "All of us must respect the reflection of God's image in every man and woman. And so we must value their freedom, not just their political freedom, but their freedom of conscience in matters of philosophy and family and faith."
Mr. Clinton's speech represented his most extensive formal remarks on "family values" since the Republican National Convention, where many speakers criticized the Democrats as less committed on such matters than President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle.
"I want an America that does more than talk about family values," said Mr. Clinton, who was accompanied today by his wife, Hillary. "I want an America that values families."
Mr. Clinton said that public service should be an essential component of American life, and that supporting "family values" meant supporting family leave legislation, creating jobs and lifting families out of poverty by creating "a real family wage."
Quoting President John F. Kennedy, the only Roman Catholic President, he said diversity should be encouraged rather than repressed, and he stressed the connection that he said existed between Southern Baptists and Catholics. Kennedy preached against intolerance to Baptist ministers in 1960.
Mr. Clinton's campaign aides also hoped to contrast his message and the audience that heard it with Mr. Bush's appearance tonight before the Christian Coalition, the group founded by the conservative evangelist Pat Robertson.
"We all have the right to wear our religion on our sleeves," Mr. Clinton said. "But we should also hold it in our hearts and live it in our lives. And, if we are truly to practice what we preach, then Americans of every faith and viewpoint should come together to promote the common good."
 
'Voices of Intolerance'
 In much the same way that he indulged the Jewish audience he spoke to through a satellite television link at a B'nai B'rith convention on Wednesday, Mr. Clinton said he was "deeply drawn to the Catholic social mission."
"That is why, like so many Americans, I've been appalled to hear the voices of intolerance that have been raised in recent weeks, voices that proclaim that some families aren't real families, some Americans aren't 'real Americans,' and what this country needs is a religious war," he said. "America doesn't need a religious war. America needs a reaffirmation of the values that for most of us, are rooted in our religious faith."
Mr. Clinton was referring to a speech delivered by Patrick J. Buchanan at the Republican convention on the convention's first night.
"There is a religious war going on in this country for the soul of America," Mr. Buchanan said. "It is a cultural war as critical to the kind of nation we shall be as the cold war itself, for this war is for the soul of America. And in that struggle for the soul of America, Clinton and Clinton are on the other side and George Bush is on our side."
Mr. Clinton's appearance here was one of the most raucous of his campaign, as his supporters sought to shout down not only the abortion protesters, but also a sizable contingent of supporters of President Bush who booed lustily.
"We know that in this room at least, our supporters can win the cheering contest," he said at one point when the din threatened to drown him out. "I would hope that in this great university, we would also prevail in the civility contest. I hope if my opponents or his running mates show up at this great university during this campaign, I hope you will go there and quietly express your support for me, but I hope you will let him speak.'
The university has become a popular site for political speakers in recent years. Mr. Bush received his own share of applause and jeers here in 1988, and he returned last spring to deliver a commencement speech in which he began the "family values" offensive by declaring that the family was "an institution under siege."
In his speech, Mr. Clinton sought to establish a link between the Catholic tradition of social service, family values and the economic plan he espouses.
In an effort to quiet some of the abortion protesters, who shouted throughout the speech and followed him outside as he shook hands afterward, Mr. Clinton told the story of a woman he met in South Florida when he toured the hurricane damage who had adopted an AIDS-infected baby.
"I respect this debate we are having in this country about life," he quoted her as saying. "But how I wish we would reach out and help the living."
On the stage, Mr. Clinton surrounded himself with Catholic public officials, including the Rev. Edward A. Malloy, the president of the university; Senator Harris Wofford, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and Mayor Raymond L. Flynn of Boston, who opposes abortion.
"To go into the most Catholic college in America and get this kind of reception is a very encouraging sign," said Mr. Flynn, who has been campaigning on Mr. Clinton's behalf in Pennsylvania. "The abortion issue is still a big issue in this country. Don't kid yourself. But when people are unemployed, when they can't afford to put bread on the table or pay the tuition for their kids, these are critically important issues too."
Campaign aides said they chose Notre Dame for the speech because they wanted to have Mr. Clinton talk about tolerance and how it enforces his secular views. They said he read pastoral letters from the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and speeches delivered at Notre Dame by both Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Cuomo favors abortion rights; Mr. Casey does not.
"If we truly believe -- as almost everyone says no matter what they believe on certain issues -- that children are God's most precious creation, then surely we owe every child born in the U.S.A. the chance to make the most of his or her God-given potential," Mr. Clinton said.
"I want an America that offers every child a healthy start in life, decent schooling and the chance to go on to college or to job training worthy of the name, not only because that's essential for our economic success but because providing opportunities is how we fulfill obligations to each other and the moral principles we honor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Security agents had to pull President Bush back from supporters yesterday in Excelsior Springs, Mo., and Gov. Bill Clinton greeted students after speaking at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. 1); Gov. Bill Clinton addressed the issue of family values in a speech yesterday at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind. (Associated Press)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (SOUTH BEND, IND) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (SOUTH BEND, IND) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIANA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; ELECTION ISSUES CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); FAMILY (92%); RELIGION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); ABORTION (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



348 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
U.S. Workers to Sue if Bush Cuts Their Pay

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
The organization representing most of the Federal Government's highest paid employees -- those making $90,000 to $112,000 -- said today that it would sue President Bush if he cut their pay.
The group, the Senior Executives Association, said Mr. Bush has "broken faith with senior Federal executives" by proposing that Government employees making more than $75,000 a year take a 5 percent pay cut. 
 Carol Bonosaro, the association's president, said the group is asking Congress for legislation to safeguard them from "partisan political manipulation" and is prepared to sue Mr. Bush if he reduces their salaries, which he has the authority to do. Ms. Bonosaro said lawyers were exploring grounds on which a suit could be based.
Mr. Bush presented a plan Thursday designed to lift the nation's economy through a 1 percent across-the-board tax reduction and spending cuts that included a 5 percent reduction in the salaries of Federal workers earning more than $75,000 a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENIOR EXECUTIVES ASSN

ORGANIZATION: SENIOR EXECUTIVES ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX RELIEF (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



349 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: U.S. DROPPING PLAN TO BUILD REACTOR

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
As part of its program to shrink the American nuclear arms industry, the Department of Energy said today that it would immediately scrap its effort to build a new nuclear reactor to produce tritium, a radioactive gas used in atomic bombs.
The announcement was made in a letter from Energy Secretary James D. Watkins to Senator Strom Thurmond, the senior Republican lawmaker from South Carolina. The Savannah River Plant, a nuclear arms manufacturing center near Aiken, S.C., was considered the likeliest site for building the new reactor, which would have cost at least $6 billion. 
 The decision, which was expected, comes almost a year after the White House ordered the Energy Department to explain why it needed the new reactor. According to the Energy Department, $1.2 billion was spent in the last three fiscal years on research and design work, and the program's cancellation will save about $1 billion the department had planned to spend in the next three fiscal years.
Mr. Watkins said actions taken by President Bush and the Russian leader, Boris Yeltsin, to substantially reduce the number of nuclear warheads had led to a sharply diminished need for new supplies of tritium, which increases a bomb's explosive power.
 
Reserves for Two Decades
 Mr. Watkins said a new study by the Pentagon and the Energy Department had found that existing reserves of tritium were sufficient to meet national security needs until at least 2012 without any new production at all.
"Accordingly," Mr. Watkins said, "I have decided that the existing new production reactor program should be deferred immediately and the reactor design efforts should be brought to a prompt and orderly closure."
The decision is a blow to two groups of industrial companies, led by General Atomics and Ebasco Services Inc., that had assembled teams of engineers to develop competing designs for the new reactor. It is also a blow to the civilian nuclear industry, which had been counting on the Energy Department project as part of its own efforts to develop a new and safer design for the next generation of nuclear power plants.
At the same time, the cancellation of the program is a victory for national and regional environmental and disarmament groups that have been arguing that the reactor was an unnecessary expense.
"Much of the money already spent on the new production reactor could have been saved if the Department of Energy had not held so tightly to this cold war relic," said Brian Costner, director of the Energy Research Foundation, an environmental group in Columbia, S.C., which opposed the project. "The program should have been canceled years ago given the pressing issues facing our country."
The new production reactor was an important facet of the Energy Department's multibillion-dollar program to repair and rebuild the Government's capability to produce tritium for nuclear weapons. Only four years ago, after the shutdown of three old reactors at the Savannah River Plant, the Energy Department reacted as if a national security emergency existed and began a crash program to repair the machines and design a new reactor.
 
$5 Billion in Rebuilding
 The dual efforts have cost more than $5 billion, and only one of the old reactors at Savannah River was repaired. In his letter to Senator Thurmond, Mr. Watkins acknowledged today that the old reactor is no longer needed.
The cancellation of the proposed reactor is another milestone in the Energy Department's costly transition from a producer of fearsome weapons to one of the Government's chief civilian research and environmental agencies.
Over the last four years, the department has shut down weapons production plants in Colorado, Idaho, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee and Washington State. Last month, the Senate voted to end atomic weapons testing permanently at the Nevada Test Site near Las Vegas. Earlier this year the House voted to suspend weapons testing temporarily at the end of the year.
Almost half of the $12 billion budget for the atomic arms industry is now focused on cleaning up radioactive and chemical poisons scattered across the 12 states where the industry's main plants and laboratories operated. The project, one of the largest public works programs ever undertaken by the Government, has turned closed nuclear weapons plants in Washington State and Ohio into field laboratories for environmental cleanup techniques.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (65%); NAICS926110 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (53%); SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; GENERAL ATOMICS; EBASCO SERVICES INC EBASCO SERVICES INC (65%); GENERAL ATOMICS (53%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; GENERAL ATOMICS; EBASCO SERVICES INC COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TRITIUM; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



350 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Black Baptists Are Buffeted From Within and Without

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, SEPT. 10

 BODY:
Heart-felt amens echoed late into the night off the walls of a hotel ballroom here as hundreds of black Baptists answered a lineup of preachers dueling for their souls with hoarse but inspired shouts that were, by turn, slyly comic and deeply pious.
Like handicappers, the more knowledgeable of those in the audience, touted the relative strengths of the lineup. 
 There was the Rev. E. L. McKinney from Memphis, a fireplug of a man whose crescendos were rated among the best. There was the Rev. A. Louis Patterson of Dallas, who gave his sermons a scholarly and intellectual cast and built to an emotional finish. And finally, around 2 A.M., there was the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who spoke of being humbled by the preaching talents of his fellow ministers, then set the audience to rocking and shouting with his own hourlong sermon.
The late-night services were spiritual nourishment for the 112th annual gathering of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. Inc., which drew 15,000 delegates and more than 40,000 other visitors from among the 8 million black Baptists worldwide.
But the pulse of the convention was not driven by the preaching alone; delegates talked of being buffeted by a host of secular concerns. The Presidential campaign and visits to the convention by the candidates and their representatives drew the most attention from delegates this week.
"This is a political year, and as black Baptists we have enough sense to know that our problem in this country is an economic problem," said the Rev. S. Amos Brackeen of Philadelphia after Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the Democratic Presidential candidate, addressed the session. "And that would seem to favor Governor Clinton over President Bush among this group."
Still, throughout Mr. Clinton's speech, Mr. Jackson remained stone-faced. He later repeated his criticism, albeit restrained, that the Clinton campaign was trying to shore up support among moderate Democrats by not showcasing many of the issues favored by the party's traditional faithful, including blacks and labor.
The Rev. W. L. Richardson, general secretary of the group, said: "One of the problems Clinton has in the black community is the perception that he is trying to create his own black leaders to deal with, and we told him that in a private meeting here."
Nevertheless, Rev. Richardson said he supports Mr. Clinton, adding: "He is a soul mate on the one hand, but he is practicing a strategy aimed at a large, white constituency which has little or no tolerance for black Americans. We understand that, but it could be a problem for him."
While politics dominated many conversations, delegates also discussed the recession, joblessness and poverty in their urban congregations, and the suffering caused by Hurricane Andrew.
Still others found themselves pondering the denomination's internal troubles. Its leader of 10 years, the Rev. Theodore J. Jemison faces trial in October on Federal perjury charges growing out of an alleged bribery attempt in connection with the Mike Tyson rape trial.
 
Hurricane Damage to Churches
 The economy was the main concern for Rev. James Wise of Goulds, Fla., until Hurricane Andrew hit. After the roof was blown off of his church, he considered canceling this trip, he said, but several other ministers from South Florida had encouraged him to attend to report the area's plight.
"I'm glad I came, because they have been taking up collections to help us," he said.
Concern about another kind of damage dominated the thoughts of Mamie Reed of Joliet, Ill., who wondered aloud about the future of Rev. Jemison, given the charges the 73-year-old preacher from Baton Rouge, La., faces.
The denomination's leader aided in the defense of Mr. Tyson, the former heavyweight champion who was convicted in February of raping Desiree Washington, a contestant in the Miss Black America beauty pageant in 1991. He later came under Federal investigation when Miss Washington and her family said that an unnamed person had offered her $1 million to drop her charges.
Nothing came of that investigation until July, when Rev. Jemison appeared as a character witness for a defendant in an unrelated Federal case in Lafayette, La. A prosecutor in that case, seeking to undermine the preacher's credibility, asked Rev. Jemison about the Tyson allegations. The minister denied offering a bribe to Miss Washington. He later was indicted for perjury on the basis of a recorded telephone conversation with Miss Washington's father.
 
Pall Over the Convention
 In interview after interview, delegates to the convention said that their leader's legal problems had cast a pall over the convention and had already weakened him. They noted that under new rules for the group, Rev. Jemison will not be able to succeed himself as president when his term expires in two years. Many said that they had expected him to try to reverse those rules, but that the indictment had weakened his position and had distracted him. As a result, three candidates for the post of president of the convention were openly campaigning this week, in what was widely seen as a preemptive strike.
"We're unified, but sometimes we let ambition run away with us," Rev. Jemison said Thursday in his annual address to the group. "Some have started two years before the vote to campaign, but they ought to wait for orders from God."
Rev. Jemison in the past explained his support for Mr. Tyson as part of an effort to protect black men and highlight their plight at the hands of the criminal justice system. Now his supporters portray him as another black victim of the criminal justice system.
"This nation has made a practice of bringing down the black race, and so it is a philosophical thing and a product of our experience to rally around and support Rev. Jemison," said Rev. Brackeen. "If white America is looking for us to abandon and tear down our leader because of these charges, they won't see that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (85%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (85%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAPTIST CHURCHES; NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (83%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAPTIST CHURCHES; NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (83%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA) UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (85%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (85%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); SMOTHERS, RONALD BILL CLINTON (91%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



351 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN:;
In Their Own Words

 BODY:

GOV. BILL CLINTON
In a speech at the University of Notre Dame yesterday
"On a hot summer afternoon 29 summers ago, I met President Kennedy in the Rose Garden of the White House as a 16-year-old delegate to America Legion Boy's Nation. That afternoon turned me toward public service. After President Kennedy was killed, another Southerner, Lyndon Johnson, succeeded to the Presidency with the promise to enact John Kennedy's program to get America moving again, and to bring America together. 
 Because I wanted to be in public service, watch the Great Society unfold and get a first-class education, I enrolled in Georgetown University, the nation's oldest Jesuit college. I wondered when I went there whether I would be out of place, a Southern Baptist who had rarely been far from home. Thankfully, both the students and the faculty there held to the scriptural commandment to befriend the stranger in their midst. And together we found much common ground that Baptists and Catholics could walk together. And in the end I felt completely at home in the Catholic tradition of Georgetown.
I was then, and I remain today, deeply drawn to the Catholic social mission, to the idea that, as President Kennedy said, here on earth God's work must truly be our own. I have seen it in the work that Catholic politicians like Mayor Flynn of Boston, and Senator Wofford, whom I admire, have done."
 
PRESIDENT BUSH
In a speech to Job Corps students and employees in Excelsior Springs, Mo., yesterday
"My new plan is comprehensive, filled with specific answers to questions Americans are asking around their dining room table these days. And one of those questions is how will we stay ahead of the changes in the world economy.
According to some studies, just 2 percent of you will work the same job from now until retirement. The average worker can expect to change jobs 10 times during the course of his career. You need real-world security, skills you can put to work now and 10 years from now.
But just as you can't drive a nail without a hammer, you can't build a dream without a job. And you're here at Job Corps because you know that it takes more and better skills to earn good jobs. And you decided you were going to do something about that.
Well, America has work to do. And we can't let your drive go to waste. Maybe 50 years ago a strong back might have been enough to get a good job. In our changing economy it's not enough anymore. What you earned yesterday with sweat you got to earn tomorrow with skills. And that's why, and that's why last month I announced new initiatives to focus Federal job training on the kind of real-world skills Americans like you and Americans of all ages need in this new world economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); 

CITY: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NOTRE DAME, UNIVERSITY OF (SOUTH BEND, IND); JOB CORPS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); JOB CORPS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOTRE DAME, UNIVERSITY OF (SOUTH BEND, IND); JOB CORPS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); JOB CORPS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EXCELSIOR SPRINGS (MD) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); RELIGION (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) JOHN F KENNEDY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



352 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Deaths From Accidents Reach a 67-Year Low

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ITASCA, Ill., Sept. 11

 BODY:
The number of accidental deaths in 1991 was the lowest in 67 years, with road accidents still by far the leading cause of such deaths, the National Safety Council says.
Reporting on the decline Tuesday, the council attributed it to greater safety awareness, technological advances, improved enforcement of traffic laws and the economic downturn, which has resulted in fewer drivers on the highways at the hours of highest risk. 
 The organization, based in this Chicago suburb, estimated that 88,000 people died accidentally last year in the United States. The toll was the lowest since 1924, when 85,600 accidental deaths occurred among an American population that was less than half its current size of 252 million.
Traffic deaths, which account for almost half the overall accidental death total, fell 7 percent from 1990, to 43,500, the lowest level since 1962, the council said.
Work-related deaths dropped to a record low of 9,900, the council said. Deaths from falls, drowning, suffocation, fires and burns also decreased.
The council was formed in 1912 by industries, railroads and insurance companies meeting in Milwaukee as the First Cooperative Safety Congress. Congress chartered the council in 1953 to lead an effort to reduce accidents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ROADS AND TRAFFIC ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); INSURANCE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



353 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Slight Rise In Producer Price Index

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Prices paid by wholesalers advanced a barely perceptible one-tenth of 1 percent in August despite big increases in the cost of fruits and vegetables, the Government said today.
The slight increase in the Labor Department's Producer Price Index matched the gain in July and was attributed to drops in the cost of gasoline and fuel oil, tobacco and children's clothing. 
 For the year so far, prices have advanced at an annual rate of just 1.7 percent. For all of last year, prices fell one-tenth of 1 percent, but that number was heavily influenced by the drop in oil prices after the Persian Gulf war.
In August, food costs jumped seven-tenths of 1 percent, pulled up by a 16.9 percent increase in fruit prices, the worst in 20 years, and a 30.2 percent rise for vegetables. Labor Department officials said bad weather affected farms in California, New York and New Jersey.
Energy prices fell one-tenth of 1 percent, the second consecutive decline after a 2.3 percent jump in June. Gasoline prices fell 1.7 percent and fuel oil dropped 4.4 percent.
Excluding the volatile food and energy components, prices fell one-tenth of 1 percent after a rise of two-tenths in July.
Economists say the virtual standstill of economic growth has kept a lid on both prices and wages. Faced with lagging sales, most businesses have found it all but impossible to push prices higher and many have been forced to cut prices.
The various changes left the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods at 123.5 percent of its 1982 base of 100, up from 121.5 a year ago.
Through July, consumer prices have risen at only a 2.9 percent annual rate.
Analysts see little prospect in the immediate future for a faster pace of price increases.
There are, however, at least two factors that are keeping price pressures from disappearing entirely: Hurricane Andrew and the weakness of the dollar.
The storm destroyed offshore oil and gas drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. It also sent the price of plywood and other construction supplies higher. Both developments should show up in the wholesale price report starting with the data for September.
As for the dollar, in late August it fell to its lowest levels since World War II against the German mark. A declining dollar helps the American economy by making its goods cheaper on overseas markets. But it adds to inflation by increasing the price of imports.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Price" shows index of finished goods prices, March 1991-August 1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX PRODUCER PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GASOLINE (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (74%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); HURRICANES (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (61%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (60%); GERMAN MARK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



354 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Generally Higher Amid Flurry of Mark Sales

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most major currencies yesterday as mounting pressure on Germany to lower its interest rates prompted a flurry of selling marks and buying dollars. Gold prices fell.
"The mark is just starting to fall out of favor and people are starting to buy everything else in sight," said Ziggy Zborowski, a trader at Bank Leumi Trust Company in New York. 
 Germany's Bundesbank raised interest rates in July to a level about six percentage points higher than United States rates. The move was intended to keep inflation under control. As a result, the mark rose against major currencies, while knocking the dollar to record lows and spreading turbulence to other currencies.
High interest rates make a currency more attractive to investors, who get a bigger return on their money.
Germany has resisted calls from European neighbors for lower interest rates, although it promised European finance ministers last weekend that it would seek to avoid further increases.
But the dollar's rise yesterday gave little relief to the weaker European currencies, as the mark held firm against sterling and the Italian lira.
Traders said the main news driving trading in Europe yesterday was a speech Thursday by Prime Minister John Major of Britain in which he warned of the consequences of a weak dollar and rejected the idea of realigning European currencies.
In New York, the dollar rose to 1.4485 German marks, from 1.4205 late Thursday, and to 124.25 Japanese yen, up from 123.525 late Thursday. The British pound was quoted at $1.9225, down from $1.9645 late Thursday.
Other dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates Thursday, included: 1.2875 Swiss francs, up from 1.2625; 4.9270 French francs, up from 4.8400; 1,108.50 Italian lire, down from 1,087.00, and 1.21585 Canadian dollars, down from 1.21795.
Gold prices fell worldwide. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $340.90, down $1.30 from Thursday. Later, the Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid of $340.90 a troy ounce, off 70 cents from Thursday.
On New York's Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $3.679 a troy ounce, down from $3.701 Thursday. Silver traded in London at a bid of $3.69 a troy ounce, down from Thursday's $3.74.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (63%); NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; INTEREST (MONEY) CURRENCIES (96%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



355 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Drop

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages plunged to 7.84 percent this week, their lowest in 19 years, according to a survey released today by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac. The rate fell one-tenth of a percentage point from 7.94 percent a week earlier. The last time rates were this low was in June 1973 when the 30-year rate was 7.73 percent. Rates on 15-year mortgages also fell, to 7.44 percent, from 7.51 percent a week ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



356 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: New Sound Of Music In a Hall Renewed

BYLINE: Special to the New York TImes

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 11

 BODY:
For more than 10 years, opening night of the San Francisco Symphony was an event to be seen, but not necessarily heard.
The wide, high spaces and U-shaped seating pattern of Davies Symphony Hall provided excellent views across a starched and sequined audience. The annual event, coupled with the opening of the opera, led off a musical season that has long been the jewel of the city's cultural crown. 
 But the imposing characteristics of the 12-year-old hall also worked to dampen the orchestra's sound. The horns, reverberating between the dentilled tiers, stumbled over one another. The strings, lingering in the arch of the concrete ceiling, rarely descended to human ears. Listeners complained of dead spots. Musicians, catching only the echo of their colleagues, accused one another of poor timing.
And so, as happened to Avery Fisher Hall in New York and a number of other contemporary concert halls, acousticians were invited to prescribe a remedy for San Francisco.
In a two-year, $10.2 million renovation project, the interior of Davies Hall has been opened up with aisles and tightened with new walls and fewer seats. The floors have been replaced, the orchestra has been elevated and the ceiling has been reformed into an armor of plexiglass shields.
 
A Positive Reception
 On Wednesday, Davies Hall reopened to the strains of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. By the time the music ended and the applause died down, the consensus among the audience and musicians was one of tempered approval. Gone from the orchestra was what Larry Kirkegaard, an acoustician who has worked on the post-renovations Carnegie Hall and the remodeling of Orchestra Hall in Chicago, called "the brontosaurus effect": "you kick it in the tail, and two weeks later the head turns around."
As part of the post-concert hoopla, the audience also heard choirs and college bands, applauded Chinese banners that were whipped through the aisles, and cheered the performance of a singer teetering beneath a hat bearing the model of the San Francisco cityscape.
In the ears of local critics, the concert pleased as none in Davies had before. Robert Commanday, music critic for The San Francisco Chronicle, praised an "excellent and exciting symphonic sound." Allan Ullrich, music critic for The San Francisco Examiner, gave a more cautiously positive review, saying that while many of the original problems had been corrected, "warmth, weight and sonic mass were in short supply."
 
 
Early Signs of Trouble
 While the largely successful completion of the project would seem to signal the continued strength of the performing arts in the city at a time of economic recession, the outcome was far from certain.
Even before 1985, when the symphony's current music director, Herbert Blomstedt, was appointed, the problems of the hall were more than apparent.
At that time, Mr. Blomstedt recalled this week, he could sit among the violas and not hear what the first violins were playing 10 feet away -- an experience he called "not very rewarding." But Mr. Blomstedt, his musicians and his audience faced some difficulty in convincing the symphony's board that the space would have to be refurbished only five years after the $27.5 million hall was completed.
"It was not the world's easiest job," said Nancy Bechtle, the symphony's president, about the second fund-raising campaign. "Among some board members, there was a sense of 'Why didn't you do it right the first time?' "
Ultimately, the board was swayed. A crucial element in the escalating complaints about the sound quality was the fact that among the hall's 3,063 seats, the best -- those with the clearest sound -- were the cheapest, nestled in the nearly invisible reaches of the second tier.
Overall attendance was 15 percent below the hall's daunting capacity. Built on a scale that rivaled the country's largest halls and exceeded many of the country's best, Davies Hall better reflected the grandiose aspirations of the 1980's than the hard economic realities facing the city's 81-year-old symphony.
But while the problems were evident, the solution was not.
Even Mr. Kirkegaard, who was eventually selected to replace the original acousticians, Bolt, Beranek & Newman of Cambridge, Mass., conceded that his profession is "a mystical science or a black art."
In his preliminary surveys, Mr. Kirkegaard toured with the symphony, gathering data from the musicians and measuring their sound in halls throughout Europe. He also consulted Lothar Cremer, the late acoustician of the Berlin Philharmonic, from which Davies Hall had derived its unusual seating arrangement.
In two consecutive summers, Mr. Kirkegaard worked with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, one of the two architecture firms involved in the original construction of the hall, to solve the hall's problems. In the process the seating capacity was reduced by more than 300.
The changes won him the support of the musicians, even that of Herb Holtman, a second violinist, who described himself as "the most cynical guy around."
"I didn't think they could do it," Mr. Holtman said. "But I think they've really done an admirable job, given the size of the hall."
 
Reserving Judgment
 Gene Morrison, a veteran of more than 1,000 Davies concerts, zigzagged his way through the entire hall: the boxes along the side and back, the two tiers, the orchestra and the thin strip of seats above the sides of the stage. He admired the cherry paneling surrounding the stage, the risers for the musicians and the newly raked orchestra floor.
"This used to be a vast wasteland," Mr. Morrison said, waving his arm out over the orchestra. "Now it's certainly worth checking out."
And while Mr. Morrison said he thought the evening's concert "had better balance and everything sounded richer," he and a number of other regulars reserved final judgment for evenings of less spectacle and more music.
"Next week we'll hear Mahler's Second," he said, "and in a year or two I'll tell you what I really think."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The San Francisco Symphony playing at the reopening this week of Davies Symphony Hall in San Francisco. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DAVIES SYMPHONY HALL; SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAVIES SYMPHONY HALL; SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ACOUSTICS; SOUND PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); OPERA (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: AVERY FISHER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



357 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: TRACK AND FIELD;
T.A.C.'s Longtime Leader Is Facing Job Evaluation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
The strongest challenge yet to Ollan Cassell's leadership of track and field in the United States will be considered this weekend in Denver, where the executive committee of The Athletics Congress plans to review his performance against newly developed criteria for the job of executive director.
Cassell, a 52-year-old former Olympic quarter-miler, has been T.A.C.'s only executive director since the organization grew out of the Amateur Athletic Union in the late 1970's. That makes him the longest-serving chief of any governing body within the United States Olympic Committee.
 
A Survivor
 As such, he has often been a target of disgruntled and critical factions within the track and field community, several of whom have tried to unseat him. But each time he has survived, always emerging stronger, and that could well be the case again this time in the most formal procedure ever used to evaluate his performance as the T.A.C. executive director. 
 The basis of the review will be analyses by seven members of the executive committee, who were asked to rate Cassell in various aspects of the job on a scale of 1 to 3, with a 3 representing "exceptional or meritorious" work.
The overall average of the evaluations will then become the basis upon which the executive committee of 22 would recommend to the board of directors that Cassell either be retained for another three years or be replaced. His current contract expires in March.
In either case, the 100-member board, which meets again in December, would have final say.
After a rousing summer of competition, highlighted by successful trials for the Olympics and the outstanding performance of the American team at the Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, the sport has never seemed healthier in the United States.
Evie Dennis, the executive board member who presided over those doing the evaluations, said the responses have been largely favorable toward Cassell. But the evaluations she had seen were not without criticisms.
"If there was one thread in the responses," she said, "it was a frustration over a lack of information and communication. People are feeling that the office is a little too secretive in the way it serves its people and associations."
In any case, she said, the overall review of the executive director's job in the generic sense would lead to greater efficiency from whomever served in the position, a critical need in a tighter economy.
Cassell, speaking from his office in Indianapolis, said he would prefer to wait until the meetings had concluded before speaking publicly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

COMPANY: ATHLETIC CONGRESS UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATHLETIC CONGRESS UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

SUBJECT: TRACK AND FIELD RUNNING (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; CASSELL, OLLAN

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



358 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: A Wise Labor Pact

 BODY:
New York City's tentative settlement with its firefighters sets a prudent but fair tone for talks with other unions. By giving the union a 4.5 percent increase over 30 months, the administration took an indispensable first step toward keeping municipal wage increases to a minimum as the city rides out the recession. The next step: to remain firm in talks with other unions.
That will not be easy, but the pact with the firefighters gives city negotiators a useful weapon by setting a precedent for moderation. The city simply cannot afford to pay workers the substantial increases labor leaders are demanding. Mayor David Dinkins learned the pitfalls of a weak labor policy when he granted the teachers' union a 5.5 percent one-year wage increase in 1990. That set a slippery-slope precedent for other union negotiations at the worst possible time -- just as the city began suffering the lost revenues and increased costs imposed by the financial downturn. 
 To his great credit, the Mayor learned from his mistake. His current budget calls for no increase in the fiscal year that began July 1 unless unions "buy" any increase with greater productivity or concessions. The firefighters' pact largely carries out that policy: the 30-month contract, retroactive to July 1, 1990, phases in the wage increases for 1990 and 1991 and includes no increase in the current fiscal year, which began July 1. Moreover, the settlement, largely the patient work of Labor Commissioner James Hanley, calls for firefighters to finance a small part of their increase with concessions. They'll work one additional 15-hour tour a year and lose a day of personal leave; new firefighters will get less vacation time.
The settlement benefits both sides. Firefighters, who must still ratify the deal, would get an increase in their annuity fund, support for legislation improving their pension fund and a chance to reduce their workweek to 40 hours from 42 if they finance the change with productivity savings.
It's unfortunate that the pact uses pension funds to pay for just under 1 percent of the increase. That means changing assumptions about the interest the funds will earn in future years, a risky business both for union members, who draw pensions from the fund, and for the city, which would have to step in if the fund ran into trouble.
With the exception of that flaw, the contract is good news for firefighters, for the city and for what it reveals about the strength of Mr. Dinkins's commitment to fiscal integrity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONTRACTS; LABOR; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSION FUNDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; EDITORIALS WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (75%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (72%); 

PERSON: DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



359 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
Money's Best Friend

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER

 BODY:
Nobody can go wrong by running against lawyers and bureaucrats so I wasn't surprised Thursday when President Bush lashed these wretched devils with the limp noodle of his campaign oratory.
The luncheon audience of high capitalists at the Detroit Economic Club hooted with delight when the President suggested that lawyers will get a nasty comeuppance in a second Bush Administration. The audience applause suggested most would gladly give up dessert if the sacrifice could persuade the President to have a half-dozen lawyers hauled to the podium, stripped of their briefcases and birched with wet writs. 
 This being a political campaign, it is unsporting to call attention to Presidential nonsense. On the other hand, what's wrong with being unsporting when both candidates hold to the proposition that anyone who doesn't want the Presidency desperately enough to kill for it is unworthy to lead us toward fulfillment of the American dream?
The President said lawyers cost the nation billions in wealth. He mentioned a specific number of billions, which I instantly forgot after checking the amount of brain space still available for storing fraudulent statistics and finding none left.
Surely seven maids with seven computers computing for seven years couldn't make a sensible estimate of how much money lawyers are costing the country. Such statistics are cooked up by political "researchers" to fit the transient needs of candidates.
The fact, of course, is that the most formidable and most expensive lawyers are almost invariably employed by corporations. Their duties include lobbying to shape the law to their employers' advantage, adjusting corporate policy to the ever-changing whims of the tax laws, and glowering at the occasional impertinent citizen trying to make trouble for the corporation.
The typical upstart who takes his grievance to a lawyer tends to settle cheap when confronted by the mountainous array of corporate legal power so obviously capable of bankrupting him with the astronomical costs of American justice.
In short, the prime function of the infamously overpaid lawyer in the United States is to help the rich get richer. It is not just comically ironic to see a gathering of capitalists cheering a Presidential assault on their loyal, if extravagantly paid, flunkeys. It also smacks of corporate ingratitude for people who devote their lives to the corporation.
Well, of course it's not the corporation lawyer whom good capitalists want undone. It is the so-called "trial lawyer," who rejects the corporate offer and insists on a trial, which sometimes ends with a huge jury award depleting the corporate till.
Such juries are usually said by corporate types to be "sentimental" and "foolish." Such lawyers, usually working only for a very large percentage of the award, are denigrated as "ambulance chasers." It wasn't clear from the President's speech whether the "billions" lawyers cost the country are composed of jury awards against corporations or the amount corporations pay their own lawyers, or the sum of the two.
In his ceremonial bashing of the bureaucrats, the President promised a 5 percent cut in the salaries of government workers who earn more than $75,000. This may or may not be a good idea, economically speaking, but the politics of it is weird even by the standards to which the Bush campaign has accustomed us. Why?
Well, because what is the President proposing here but an income tax on a clearly defined population group? And who is the fellow who says he once made a terrible mistake by raising taxes but will never, ever raise taxes again? That's right: It is Mr. President, the same fellow who is simultaneously promising to put an income tax on upper-income bureaucrats.
Is it not captious to dwell on these Presidential absurdities? Yes, if we agree that what is said and done in pursuit of office is merely circus, just ritual game-playing that is not meant to deal with the world as it really is nor tell us anything at all about what will be done once the game is lost and won.
Being serious about serious business is bad taste in America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES LAWYERS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LOBBYING (69%); TAX LAW (64%); VERDICTS (63%); JURY TRIALS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



360 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Women of Russia, Unite!

BYLINE: By Katrina vanden Heuvel; Katrina vanden Heuvel, an editor at The Nation, writes about Russian politics and society.

 BODY:
As the Soviet welfare system collapses, the feminization of poverty may become the new Russia's largest and cruelest problem.
In Moscow, 70 percent of the newly unemployed are women between the ages of 45 and 55. When I visited one of Moscow's recently established unemployment offices this summer, women in line described the kind of discrimination they now face in the job market. Some were turned away because they were too old -- in their 40's. Others had been told that their maternal responsibilities made them unreliable workers. 
 Women's economic desperation is visible on Moscow's streets, too, where the overwhelming number of peddlers are older women and young mothers.
Although anti-discrimination legislation still exists in Russia, it is not being enforced. Sexist (and ageist) job advertisements are commonplace. Alisa, a new brokerage house, published announcements seeking woman aged 18 to 21 for secretarial positions. Applicants were told to come to the interview wearing a miniskirt.
An advertising firm requested that applicants for a receptionist position submit a full-size photo, preferably one showing them in a bikini to display their "full super-attractiveness."
Still worse, legislation being discussed by the Parliament, and likely to be adopted this fall, would prevent women from participating equally in the emerging market economy. Mothers of children under the age of 14 would be allowed to work only a limited number of hours a week, thereby disqualifying them from the best jobs. The legislation is supported by a coalition of Russia's new democrats and old-style conservatives.
In addition, the Parliament and some city governments are dismantling the once elaborate Soviet system of child care. With fewer outside services, women will be compelled to leave the workplace. The Moscow City Council, for example, proposes to close about a third of the city's day-care centers in the next two years. While Russian politicians argue that women resented having to combine full-time work and full-time homemaking under the old Soviet system, a recent poll shows that only 20 percent of Russian women want to stay at home.
Regardless of personal preference, millions of Russian families will not be able to survive without two incomes, as inflation grows. In 1992, women's earnings account for 40 percent of family incomes, while every fifth Russian woman is the family's only breadwinner.
Not surprisingly, Russian women are forming activist and self-help groups. In some ways, their struggle is reminiscent of the American women's movement in the late 1960's. On the other hand, unlike the American economy of the time, Russia's economy is disintegrating and offers few new opportunities. And Russian women are unlikely to find allies among the overwhelmingly male political class.
Should the U.S. care about the plight of women in Russia? The Bush Administration has rightly argued that we must give financial support to Russia's reforms. But most of the aid is conditional on the Yeltsin Government's making drastic budgetary cuts. The cuts, of course, will lead to higher unemployment and fewer welfare provisions, which will victimize women first and foremost.
It would be wiser, more humane and more consistent with our values and laws to make all such aid intended to promote a market economy in Russia conditional on practices that will provide equal opportunity for all citizens. Women should be present at the creation of the new Russia. As my friend Anastasia insists, "Democracy without women is not democracy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); CONSERVATISM (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: VANDEN HEUVEL, KATRINA

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1992



361 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Asheville

BYLINE: By RICK MASHBURN; RICK MASHBURN lives in North Carolina and is a frequent visitor to Asheville.

 BODY:
For many people, a getaway in North Carolina's Blue Ridge Mountains means a remote campsite or cottage, a place where the pileated woodpecker is the biggest noisemaker around. Travelers who take smaller doses of wilderness may prefer Asheville. Hiking trails, whitewater rivers and the meandering Blue Ridge Parkway are all within easy reach, yet so are out-of-town newspapers, imported beer and the occasional foreign movie.
Not by accident is Asheville's professional baseball team called the Tourists. The city has catered to visitors since the mid-19th century, when it began to be known both for lavish hotels and sanitariums. 
 A number of its present-day attractions were built by people who visited first, then decided to stay: George Washington Vanderbilt was so enchanted with the sight of Mount Pisgah that he bought 125,000 acres surrounding it, then situated his 285-room estate, Biltmore, to give him an unblemished view.
In turn, some of Biltmore's most talented designers and craftsmen also settled in the city and continued to contribute to a body of architecture that is strong in the Art Deco and Gothic Revival styles.
Created by and for outsiders, Asheville, with a population of 60,000, has an unusual sophistication for a city in the southern Appalachians.
 
Events
 On many chilly mornings in early fall, heavy moisture settles in low-lying areas of the city and surrounding valleys. Viewed from above, the fog is a thick white sea through which the mountain peaks rise like blue-green islands. The sight is well worth an early climb on foot or by car. More predictable are the first blushes of color in the trees at higher elevations. The show descends and intensifies until its peak in mid-October.
To help counter the lull between summer vacationers and the throngs of leaf-watchers, numerous man-made events have been scheduled for the next few weeks. The complete calendar is available from the Asheville Convention and Visitors Bureau, Post Office Box 1010, Asheville, N.C. 28801; (800) 257-1300.
Representatives of 50 Indian tribes from all over the country will attend Kituwah: the second annual American Indian National Arts Exposition from Sept. 24 to 27 in the Asheville Civic Center. Some 150 juried craftsmen will sell their work, and there is a schedule of dance competitions and workshops on cultural and historical traditions. Admission for a half-day is $10; write High Country Art and Craft Guild, 46 Haywood Street, Asheville, N.C. 28801. Information, (704) 252-3881; tickets, (704) 251-9999.
Thomas Wolfe stayed away from home for eight years after he outraged the town with his thinly disguised autobiography "Look Homeward Angel." Now he is the city's most revered native, and his birthday is celebrated with an annual festival, this year from Oct. 1 to 4, when dramatizations, concerts, art exhibits, lectures and workshops will be held in a variety of locations. Walking tours include "Thomas Wolfe's Asheville." "An Evening at Dixieland" will offer music and period costumes at the Thomas Wolfe Memorial, the boarding house Wolfe's mother owned; now a museum, (704) 253-8304, the house is worth a visit at any time. Most events are free; for a schedule write the Wolfe Memorial, Post Office Box 7143, Asheville, N.C. 28802.
Fifteen miles east of the city, at a summer camp near the town of Black Mountain, dancers and music lovers will converge for the Black Mountain Fall Festival from Oct. 9 to 11 and 16 to 18. Twenty musical groups perform each weekend, headlined by the David Grisman Quintet. The mix includes cajun music, blues and a percussion ensemble that plays instruments made from trash. Workshops on swing and contra dancing, drumming and musical instruments are held during the day. While some people are listening to the stage performances, other enthusiasts are in the old dining hall, where they dance until dawn. Tickets for each weekend are $55 in advance, $65 at the gate; order from Post Office Box 216, Black Mountain, N.C. 28711; (704) 669-4546.
 
 
Sights
 For a visual introduction to the city, drive west through the clutter and chaos of Tunnel Road. You'll pass through Beaucatcher Tunnel, then emerge to a stately view of the downtown skyline. Thanks to a recent rejuvenation, downtown is spirited and hospitable. There are narrow, angled streets and spacious open squares filled with cafes, galleries and boutiques. At Pack Square, the heart of downtown, the recently opened Pack Place Education, Arts and Science Center, (704) 252-3866, has provided a new home for several of the city's small museums.
Architecture enthusiasts will want to seek out the pink-roofed Art Deco City Building at 70 Court Plaza, and the Gothic Revival Jackson Building, a pencil-thin skyscraper at 22 South Pack Square. For a more comprehensive look, a two-hour, guided walking tour begins at the Downtown Welcome Center, 14 Battery Park Avenue, (704) 255-1093, and costs $7.50.
Biltmore Estate should certainly be visited, even considering the $21.95 admission charge. Built in the 1890's and designed by Richard Morris Hunt after 16th-century French chateaus in the Loire Valley, the splendid stone mansion is filled with original furnishings and art objects collected by George Vanderbilt in Europe. The 8,000-acre grounds, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, include lavish formal gardens and a conservatory. Lunch at one of the two restaurants on the estate and a winery tour can extend the visit to nearly a full day. The house, 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. (tickets must be purchased by 5); grounds close at 8 P.M. (800) 543-2961.
The rough boulders of the Grove Park Inn in Asheville stand in sharp contrast to Biltmore's gargoyled facade. The rustic hotel was built in 1912 of stone carved from the mountain on which it sits, and the original structure remains largely intact despite the addition of two new wings. The terrace has dozens of rockers and a sweeping view of distant mountains; it is especially pleasant at sunset. On chilly days, comfort can be found by two huge stone fireplaces in the lobby. Visitors who are not staying at the hotel can sit on the porch and in the lobby. Many of Grove Park's original fixtures and furnishings were made by the Roycrofters, a well-known name in the American Arts and Crafts Movement; in addition, an impressive collection of arts and crafts furnishings now decorates the public areas of the new wings. At 290 Macon Avenue; (800) 438-5800.
At the Folk Art Center on the Blue Ridge Parkway, 15 minutes from town, one can finger a hand-carved bowl or chat with a broom maker as he works. The shop sells works by members of the Southern Highlands Handicraft Guild, and an exhibition gallery is on the second floor. Shows for the fall include a retrospective of sculptural glass works by William Bernstein, which runs to Sept. 30. At Parkway Milepost 382, open 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; (704) 298-7928; free.
 
Where to Stay
 Reservations can be hard to find during the height of the leaf season, mid-October.
All glass and steel, the Radisson Hotel Asheville at One Thomas Wolfe Plaza, (800) 438-3960, is a jarring sight next door to the Thomas Wolfe Memorial, built in 1883. Even so, the 281-room hotel is conveniently situated and offers views from its upper-floor rooms and restaurant. One complaint: the carpets were annoyingly stained during a recent stay. A double room is $79 ($52 for people attending the Wolfe Festival).
The Swiss Chalets, 5 Delano Road, (704) 253-6062, are all but hidden by the woods on Beaucatcher Mountain. They are 600 feet above downtown but still only moments from Pack Square. The six modestly furnished cottages have one to three bedrooms, and all are equipped with kitchens, cable television and a deck with grill. A one-bedroom chalet is $75 a night.
In addition to being a historic and esthetic landmark, the Grove Park Inn is a full-fledged resort hotel. It has 510 rooms, three restaurants, golf course and indoor sports center. Rooms in the oldest section retain their original furniture; they are smaller but more appealing. A room for two is $115 to $185.
Richmond Hill Inn, 87 Richmond Hill Drive, (704) 252-7313, is among the most carefully restored and handsomely furnished of the city's inns in old homes. A bit out of the way, it sits alone on a steep hill over the French Broad River. The century-old house has a paneled hall and library, and some of the 12 guest rooms have fireplaces. Nine cottages, also with fireplaces, have been built around a nearby croquet court. Rates for a double room, $115 to $275, includes a full breakfast. The inn's restaurant also serves dinner, afternoon tea and Sunday brunch.
Budget: Motels of every description can be found along Tunnel Road. Econo Lodge, at 190 Tunnel Road, (704) 254-9521, has 53 rooms; the rate for two is $50 until Oct. 9, when it rises to $60. Days Inn, 199 Tunnel Road, (704) 254-4311), has 77 rooms for $35 to $59 on weekends.
 
Where to Eat
 One of Asheville's most ambitious and successful restaurants is 23 Page, 1 Battery Park Avenue in the Haywood Park Hotel, (704) 252-3685. A recent menu included fried quail on a savory lentil cake with pineapple and scallion salsa, beet ravioli with lobster beurre blanc, and Thai pork with papaya and peach salad. The stylish dining room is open and airy, despite a lack of windows. Dinner for two, including a modest wine and a tip, is about $80.
The thoroughly improbable Windmill mixes Italian, German and Indian cuisines in a grotto-like setting under the Innsbruck Mall, 85 Tunnel Road. (704) 253-5285. A popular item on the regular menu is chicken schnitzel with sour cream and dark cherries. A frequent special is the German sampler. Dinner for two with wine is $50 to $60.
The Latin Quarter at 76 Haywood Street, (704) 252-6602, offers dishes inspired by the cuisines of Spain, Cuba and the Caribbean. Paella and Jamaican jerked pork are popular, as are plantains stuffed with black beans, and chayote squash baked with cheese. Live jazz on weekends. Dinner for two with wine or beer is about $45.
Stone Soup, at both 50 Broadway, (704) 255-7687, and 8 Wall Street, (704) 254-0844, offers soups, salads and hefty sandwiches on wholegrain breads. Even the desserts seem healthful. Only the Broadway restaurant, by far the more laidback of the two, is open for dinner. Stir-frys, omelets and other special entrees are added to the self-service line in the evening. Dinner for two $20; wine by the glass $1.30.
One attraction of the Hot Shot Cafe, at 7 Lodge Street at Biltmore Village, (704) 274-2170, is that it is open 24 hours (closed Monday). Another is its country-style steak special. What's more, this place keeps country music on the jukebox and serves wholly acceptable biscuits. Two full meals will cost about $15, at most.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doll at Folk Art Center. The 285-room Biltmore mansion on a few of its 8,000 acres. An outdoor cafe in the Pack Square section. (Photographs by Will McIntyre for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Asheville. (Sources: Runzheimer International, The Asheville Chamber of Commerce and The National Weather Service)
 
Map of Asheville

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (52%); ASHEVILLE CIVIC CENTER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASHEVILLE CIVIC CENTER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ASHEVILLE (NC) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MOUNTAINS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HIKING (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); TOURISM (71%); BASEBALL (71%); BEER & ALE (71%); FILM (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%); 

PERSON: MASHBURN, RICK THOMAS KENNERLY 'TOM' WOLFE JR (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



362 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 5; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: THE PARTY CRASHER

 BODY:
Lowi is mistaken when he claims that "the two-party system has long been brain dead." In fact, the two-party system is in the process of rejuvenation. For over two decades, scholars of American politics have claimed that realigning elections -- America's surrogate for revolution -- have become extinct. Historically, such elections have served as a pressure valve for our political system, and at various crises in our history, roughly every 30 years, they ushered in new eras of social and political change.
The election of 1800 marked the beginning of our two-party system; in 1828, white male suffrage was achieved; the election of 1860 insured the maintenance of the union; 1896 ushered in the Industrial Age; active government in the form of the New Deal emerged in 1932, and the struggle for civil rights was settled with the election of 1964 -- the last critical realignment. 
 Each of these elections was triggered by a negative economic or political event resulting in the polarization of the parties. When the critical realigning election occurred, it was characterized by high voter turnout, with a majority of voters reaffirming or changing their party identification. This in turn triggered major changes in the policy agenda, ending stagnation by bringing about dramatic social change for a generation to come.
 
RALPH DA COSTA NUNEZ
Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University
New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: DA COSTA NUNEZ, RALPH (PROF); LOWI, THEODORE J

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



363 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: THE REPUBLICANS

 BODY:
It is easy to feel frustration for the present ineffectiveness of the Bush Administration. But I would rather sit waiting in the gridlock than go hurtling down the road and straight over the cliff. Do people really have such short memories that they cannot remember the shambles created by the last Democratic Administration? How about 21 percent interest rates, 13 percent inflation, 8 percent unemployment, gas lines and an all-time low in respect internationally? 
 Contrast this to a 30-year low in interest rates, similar unemployment, 4 percent inflation and the fall of Communism. Yes, the choice is certainly disappointing, and yes, Bush has betrayed the conservative cause, but those who put Clinton in the White House will deserve what they get. Unfortunately, the rest of us will have to suffer through it as well.
 
RICHARD J. WERTHER
Novi, Mich.

GRAPHIC: Photo of republicans (Photograph by Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY BUSH ADMINISTRATION (85%); WHITE HOUSE (55%); DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY BUSH ADMINISTRATION (85%); WHITE HOUSE (55%); DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (85%); ELECTIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



364 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: In Place of Tennis Bubbles;
New Stores for Woodside

 BODY:
Recession or not, the Meyer family can't resist a chance to develop a piece of Queens. It is now involved with store construction in the Woodside section, a $1.5 million project at Northern Boulevard, 51st Street and Broadway. The family-run Cord Meyer Development Company of Forest Hills is the developer of what it chooses to call the Woodside Shopping Center.
"The community was underserved in the retail segment," said Scott E. Mollen, a spokesman and lawyer for Cord Meyer. 
 The 73,000-square-foot triangular lot is occupied by a 5,200-square-foot Citibank. There were also three tennis bubbles on the land, which have been demolished for what will be a 17,000-square-foot Staples office-supply outlet and a 3,200-square-foot McDonald's. Groundbreaking for the McDonald's is scheduled for next week and for the Staples store next month. There will be parking for 89 cars.
All the structures will be easily visible from Northern Boulevard, said Stephen Sanders of Stephen Sanders & Associates Architects in Manhasset, L.I., although the Staples store will be set back from the street.
The project will be completed by late spring. Another Cord Meyer project -- a 100,000-square-foot expansion of the Bay Terrace shopping center in Bayside -- will be finished by the end of 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEYER, CORD, DEVELOPMENT CO CORD MEYER DEVELOPMENT LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEYER, CORD, DEVELOPMENT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WOODSIDE (NYC) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



365 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 18; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Yale Recitals Usher In New Season

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHERMAN

 BODY:
A RUSH of concerts next weekend suggests that the winding down of summer is just about complete. Friday evening at 8, the first in a cycle of free Yale University faculty recitals offers a performance by the musicians Sidney Harth and Peter Frankl in a program of three violin and piano sonatas Brahms. On Sunday evening at 8, another member of the Yale faculty, the organist Charles Krigbaum, opens the Sunday Evening Music Series at Woolsey Hall, playing works of Ives, Parker and Widor. A $3 donation will be requested at the door (432-4157).
Another Friday evening recital, this one at 8:30 P.M. at the Pequot Library in Southport, finds the Sartory Trio playing Dvorak, Mendelsohn and a new "Jazz Semi-Suite" by Joe Utterback. (227-6943 or 226-1076). Saturday evening at 8, Robert Cumming, founder and director of the Connecticut Gilbert and Sullivan Society, plans to include at least one Sullivan anthem in his recital of "Sacred Song Masterpieces" but works by about a dozen other composers, including Mr. Cumming, will be represented as well. Accompanying the program at the First Church of Christ Scientist in Guilford is the organist of the church for the last 16 years, Esther Barto, and since the concert has been designed as a benefit for Meals on Wheels of Guilford, donations to that organization constitute the admission charge (421-4098). 
 Three Connecticut communities will be the beneficiary of the New World Chamber Ensemble's ninth season, the programs once again balancing musical rarities with audience favorites. Saturday's 8 P.M. opening concert at the Porter Memorial in Farmington offers variations on the latter theme, via a group of "Performers' Favorites." The violinist Anhared Stowe, for instance, has chosen Kreisler's "Schon Rosmarin" and the Meditation from Massenet's "Thais," while the cellist Eric Dahlin has chosen the beautiful though infrequently played sonata by the early 20th-century English composer Frank Bridge. Several of Debussy's etudes are the preferred province of the ensemble's pianist, Gary Chapman, and presumably by unanimous vote, the concert concludes with the Ravel Trio.
The October recital brings the New World back to the Porter Memorial, but in 1993, the ensemble has scheduled a January recital at Westminster School in Simsbury, while a February program (including the world premiere of Stephen Bryc's "Fantasy on a Theme of Bela Bartok") and the March finale will both be in Hartford, at the Unitarian Meeting House and the newly refurbished Aetna Theater respectively. For subscription details or single-ticket reservations, call 658-7909.
Campus concerts in New Haven and Hartford at 3 next Sunday afternoon have the decided advantage of being free. In the library court at the Yale Center for British Art, the violist Mary Hammann, the flutist Laura Gilbert and the harpist Barbara Allen -- or, collectively, the Aureole Trio -- will be exploring the chamber music of Sir Arnold Bax and Alan Rawsthorne (432-2858). At the Austin Arts Center, meanwhile, principal singers of Connecticut Concert Opera and the Trinity College Concert Choir, prepared by Gerald Moshell, will be offering a variety of Italian arias and choral scenes (561-2670).
The Schubert Club of Fairfield County, a nonprofit organization offering a variety of youth and adult programs to encourage participation in and appreciation of music, opens its season next Sunday afternoon at 3, presenting a recital by David Korevaar.
There will be no Schubert this time but the Norwalk-based pianist has promised the three Brahms Intermezzi of Opus 17, Beethoven's "Appassionata" Sonata, the Barcarolle and Fourth Scherzo of Chopin, and the premiere performance of his own solo-piano transcription of Liszt's Symphonic Poem "Festklange" ("Holiday Sounds"). Tickets will be available at the door, but for more information about club activities, call 966-8770.
The Norwalk Symphony does not begin its season until mid-October (with an all-Beethoven concert, featuring the violinist Erick Friedman) but it has been a busy backstage summer, beginning in June when Morton Gould, the composer, conductor and president of ASCAP, presented the organization's award for adventursome programming to the orchestra, its music director, Jesse Levine, and Richard Epstein, chairman of the program committee.
Despite the recession the orchestra has expanded its staff and is planning more extensive outreach services. "The Norwalk Symphony provides more to the community than a fine concert series," said its newly elected president, J. Robert Flagg. "Our mission is to let people understand our role in arts education and to give them many good reasons to be committed to their symphony, to be involved in its growth."
Indicative of that growth is the appointment of Rosemary Cook to the newly created post of executive director, her primary challenge to initiate programs and activities that can build a more diversified audience. The orchestra has also sent out a call for new members: both professional and volunteer musicians are invited to try out for permanent or substitute positions. For an appointment, call 966-6847; the reservation and subscription information number is 866-2455.
The Danbury Music Center and the Connecticut Ballet Theater School have both sent out tryout calls for their annual productions of Tchaikovsky's "Nutcracker" ballet. The principal roles in the presentation will be taken by professionals, but about 100 youngsters, ages 5 through 18, will also be part of the cast. "Prior dance experience is helpful but not essential," said the artistic director Brett Raphael. Open auditions are being held today between 11 A.M and 6:30 P.M. at Klein Memorial Auditorium in Bridgeport (259-3930).
In Danbury, according to the center's executive director Nancy Sudik, "all roles are open to all area dancers from age 6 through adult," with interested applicants invited to perform for the dance director Julianne La Fond next Sunday or the following Saturday, Sept. 26.
There is a $20 audition fee that is refunded if the center cannot find a part for the auditioner. For more details, call 748-1716.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (87%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (87%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); THEATER (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); RELIGION (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); MEALS ON WHEELS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); 

PERSON: SHERMAN, ROBERT ROBERT CUMMING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



366 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: Keep-It-Simple Retailing Catches On

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
MINIMALIST retail design reached an apogee in New York this year with the opening of the Equipment shirt store: a stainless-steel shelf in the center, a mahogany cabinet to one side and not very much else except the boldly patterned, brightly colored product.
But while this happened in Madison Avenue's rarefied atmosphere, the impulse toward spare design, where architectural features are subordinated to the merchandise, can be found almost anywhere one looks or shops. 
 There is A/X Armani Exchange in SoHo, as well as 32 other locations nationwide, with its concave corrugated aluminum ceiling faintly recalling the quonset hut of a post exchange. Also in SoHo is Pure Madderlake, a flat-black void in which antique and contemporary furnishings and household objects are grouped in small islands, under theatrical lighting. On North Michigan Avenue in Chicago, there is the Sony Gallery, its neutral-colored expanses punctuated by color television screens.
"There are three major things in retailing and it's not, 'Location, location, location,' " said C. Bradley Mendelson, senior managing director and director of retail leasing at the Edward S. Gordon Company, the brokerage that represented Sony. "It's location, design and product."
"The tendency is big, open, clean space -- high ceilings, highly visible, with lots of glass, lots of exposure," said Gary Alterman, executive vice president of the New Spectrum Realty Services brokerage in Manhattan.
And Kenneth H. Walker, chairman and chief executive of the Walker Group/CNI, an architectural and design firm that has worked on the Saks Fifth Avenue and F. A. O. Schwarz flagship stores, as well as Galeries Lafayette on East 57th Street, said: "I think, basically, we're in an antiglitz period. Glitz is out."
Notable exceptions abound, where dark burled woods and heavy brass fixtures are still the rule. Even Equipment's cutting edge is only a block away from Ralph Lauren's richly cluttered, Anglo-clubby Polo store.
But simplicity seems to be the rule.
Esthetics are not the only force behind minimalist store design. Real estate and economic concerns come into play as well.
Simpler stores are by and large less expensive to build. When architectural elements are stripped away to make room for merchandise, retailers benefit from having to rent less stockroom space. They also gain the ability to rearrange the selling floor with relative ease, which helps keep the store looking up to the minute.
Open plans and large windows not only increase visibility from a street or concourse, making greater use of smaller frontages; they also mean that fewer employees are needed to keep watch on the goods.
Moreover, a merchant may have no choice but to preserve a voluminous, high-ceilinged space. If the building has already used up all the floor area it is allowed under zoning rules, a mezzanine -- no matter how devoutly desired -- would not be permitted.
"There's no question that in anything that's involved with real estate you're looking for efficiency in every square inch of space, because there is no room for waste," said David P. Manfredi, a partner in Elkus/ Manfredi Architects, based in Boston, designers of the Sony Gallery.
"The Limited was to my knowledge the first retailer on a national scale to put merchandise up to the ceiling, far beyond what was accessible," Mr. Manfredi said. "What that did was create the illusion of being surrounded by the merchandise, being enveloped by it. At the same time, you were putting stock in the selling space."
Merchants who keep their inventory on the sales floor "don't have to pay high-rent numbers for stock space," said Michael H. Ratner, president of the Richter & Ratner Contracting Corporation of Maspeth, Queens, which specializes in retail construction.
"You can go into a store like the Gap and see the entire store," Mr. Alterman said. "It all pops out at you. You can see from the front to the back because they use low tables, as opposed to shelves and aisles, and all the high stuff is along the perimeter walls. For the retailers, it's a much easier store to manage, because employees can see everything that's going on. In this day and age, that's important."
The Gap was cited as a trend-setter by a number of brokers and architects. "The Gap's got the right idea," said Charles Aug, president of the Garrick-Aug Associates Store Leasing retail brokerage in Manhattan. "They're fresh, clean, light. And they seem to be doing very well."
But the San Francisco company is reluctant to talk. "We really don't do real-estate stories," said Richard Crisman, a Gap spokesman.
He declined to furnish specific information, saying only that stores are designed by an "in-house team" and "an outside company that we work with." There are "a couple" of prototype stores, he said.
Absent any official confirmation, the Gap's design philosophy might be summed up as: Let the product speak for itself. And many others are following the same course.
"To really see retail trends, go to a mall," Mr. Walker said. "You'll see less complexity, less architecture for architecture's sake, and more attention to merchandising and visual presentation. A store that would have paid $100 a square foot is now looking to spend $75, by simplifying the presentation and letting the merchandise be the hero."
A walk through Roosevelt Field in Garden City, L.I., bears out his observation. Shopfronts tend to be little more than sheets of plate glass, showing off interiors where colors and textures and patterns are provided by the merchandise, not the architecture.
Looking rather incongruous in this environment is Structure, a menswear unit of the Limited. Here, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe -- father of the dictum, "Less is more" -- is one of the featured icons in a more-is-more decor that creates a kind of clublike environment based on the theme of architecture.
Structure stores have colossal fluted columns (made of Fiberglas but looking like marble) that are topped by Ionic capitals with scrolls the size of serving platters; vastly oversized blueprints that cover entire walls; seating areas with Mies's Barcelona chairs, Le Corbusier's Gran Confort chairs, and architectural journals and monographs on coffee tables; entablatures with egg-and-dart moldings; a Grecian urn or two and even quotes from Mies, Corbusier and Frank Lloyd Wright on the walls.
THERE are now 299 Structure stores, including one at 7 West 34th Street that opened about a month ago. "Of all the businesses we have, this was more successful from the get-go than almost any other," said Charles W. Hinson, president of store planning for the Limited, in Columbus, Ohio. He credited the final design development to Debbie Urton, vice president of design.
Mr. Manfredi, one of several architects who worked on a prototype of the Structure store, said the structural elements were meant to "reinforce the quality of architecture as a masculine profession."
"The design is of such solid substance that it will have staying power," Mr. Hinson said.
Staying power is a considerable concern when it comes to retail design. If a store stops appearing fresh, it may find itself in trouble.
That was one of the reasons that Tom Pritchard, an architect, and his partner, Billy Jarecki, chose a bare-bones approach to Pure Madderlake, a flower and housewares store on Broadway, near Broome Street.
"Since the architecture is so minimal, we can reconfigure it," Mr. Pritchard said. "We're not married to a system. We can bring things forward or push them back. People can come into the store two weeks later and feel it's a whole new experience."
But the design also fit with the store's philosophy. "We have a number of extraordinary objects that are each individually beautiful," Mr. Pritchard said. "It was not at all about store design per se but a setting in which the objects themselves could be seen to best advantage."
The architect of the A/X Armani Exchange store, Naomi Leff, of Naomi Leff & Associates, also said it was the nature of the merchant -- not the currency of the esthetic -- that dictated the design.
"A STORE is a three-dimensional representation of the business," she said. "The Giorgio Armani esthetic has to do with simplicity. It's a modernist, minimalist esthetic."
For pure minimalism, there would seem to be few rivals to Equipment, which has three stores in Paris, two in London and one at 872 Madison Avenue, at 71st Street, which opened five months ago. The architects were David Chipperfield, of London, and William Fellows and Anton Martinez, of the Manhattan firm Fellows Martinez Associates.
In the center of the space is a stainless-steel frame, 5 feet high and 18 feet long, with frosted-glass shelves on which shirts are fastidiously arranged in piles of three. As a counterpoint, there is a mahogany cabinet closer to the rear wall, with more shirts. The cash-register stand is steel. The walls are white and the floors are gray limestone.
Unlike Structure, where Mies is invoked, Equipment has a truly Miesian feeling in its austerity, rectilinearity and sparing use of luxurious material. The goal, Mr. Martinez said, was to "create a background for the merchandise without having an architecture that's too self conscious."
But he said that Spartan design was hard to sell to the higher quality boutiques. "They want more marble, wood trim, Essex green," he said. "The English storefront -- that's what they're looking for."
That approach seems to have paid off at Coach for Business, at Madison Avenue and 44th Street. In this leather goods and accessories shop, part of the Sara Lee Corporation, one is enveloped by dark wood cabinetry. "It's a much warmer feeling," said Mr. Ratner, whose firm was the contractor. "It's like being in your own library -- you should be so lucky as to have a library like that."
Mr. Mendelson, who represented the owners, said there had been a clothing store in the space, with an all-glass facade, that did poor business. "Coach took over the lease and put in more money per square foot than anyone else on the block," he said. "I have tenants on that block who cry that business is terrible. And then Coach comes along and does better business than anyone."

GRAPHIC: Photos; Structure, the Limited's menswear unit, bases its decor on architecture. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times)(pg. 11); Equipment, at 872 Madison Avenue, displays its only merchandise, shirts, folded on a simple, structural centerpiece. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SA DES GALERIES LAFAYETTE (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INTERIOR DESIGN REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W RALPH LAUREN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



367 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Primaries Find Party Lines A Bit Blurred

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
IN an election year that finds Connecticut voters struggling with unemployment and higher taxes -- and little hope that either will be alleviated soon -- primary elections in four of the state's six Congressional districts on Tuesday are offering candidates whose attempts to satisfy as many people as possible often leave the contenders straddling party lines.
The most dramatic example is in the First Congressional District, where Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, a five-term Democrat from Hartford, has enjoyed wide popularity in a largely Democratic district. A time-honored belief is that no Republican can win in the First District (the last one was elected in 1956 and trounced two years later), and to counter that, the state Republican Party this year has endorsed a Democrat to run against Mrs. Kennelly. That candidate, Robert F. Ludgin, a former deputy mayor of Hartford, is running on the slogan "A Choice for a Change," and faces a Republican primary challenge from Philip L. Steele, a Hartford lawyer. 
 Explaining the highly unusual move, state party chairman Richard Foley said the only Republican to declare his candidacy, Mr. Steele, had failed to make much contact with state party officials until just before the convention in July. "We thought we should be looking for the guy's picture on a milk carton," Mr. Foley said. The convention's endorsement vote was deadlocked until its chairman cast another vote in favor of Mr. Ludgin, whose record in Hartford -- a pair of tax cuts and an emphasis on basic services -- held appeal for some Republicans. Mr. Steele said he believed that Mr. Foley pressured convention delegates to support his opponent, but said he thought he had wider recognition in the district and therefore a better shot at winning the primary. "Are we building up the Republican Party, or are we going to throw it all away by sending a message to the voters that says we can't even field a candidate?" asked Mr. Steele, a former candidate for mayor of Hartford. The crossover seems to have caused problems for Mr. Ludgin as well. Some Republicans, he said, seem suspicious of a Democrat who wants to represent their interests. "I'm trying to say, they ought not to consider what uniform I'm wearing, but whether I'm willing to go to bat for them and hit a home run," said Mr. Ludgin, who had been known to break with the Democratic establishment while a city official. As for where he would sit if elected to Congress, he said that although he had spent 31 of the last 52 years as a Democrat, he thought he would sit with the Republicans and vote with them on many issues. "I've got a reputation in Hartford for being an independent cuss," Mr. Ludgin said. "I'm not signing up for the Army. I'm running for Congress, for myself."
In addition to the four Congressional primaries on Tuesday, Republican voters statewide will choose a candidate for the United States Senate and voters in both parties in scattered districts across the state will pick candidates for the State Senate and State House of Representatives. The polls will be open from 6 A.M. to 8 P.M.
 
U.S. Senate
 In the Republican race for the United States Senate, Chris Burnham, a two-term State Representative from Stamford, has been endorsed by the state Republican convention. But his opponent, Brook Johnson, a businessman and political neophyte who lives in Greenwich, is mounting a sophisticated campaign, replete with television commercials urging voters to support him as someone who would bring badly needed business acumen to the Senate.
Both Republicans have fairly similar positions on many issues, favoring tax incentives to revive the battered Connecticut economy and supporting a balanced-budget amendment. The greatest differences are in their resumes, their campaigning styles and their war chests, with Mr. Burnham spending just over $400,000 so far on his method, which has included a 150-mile trek on foot around parts of the state, and Mr. Johnson already up to that level on television and radio advertisements alone.
The winner will face Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat who is completing his second six-year term, in November.
 
Fifth Congressional District
 Perhaps the most vociferous primary campaign is being waged by two Democrats in the Fifth District, a bat-shaped portion of the state's western half that includes battered industrial centers like Waterbury and Ansonia, but also bucolic suburbs like Wilton and Monroe. There Lynn Taborsak, a State Representative and licensed plumber from Danbury, has been engaged in a war of rhetoric with her Democratic opponent, Jim Lawlor, a probate judge from Waterbury.
Aides to both Democrats say the incumbent, Gary Franks, a freshman who is the only black Republican in Congress, is extremely vulnerable. But in the meantime, the primary has taken on elements of a schoolyard fight. In particular, Ms. Taborsak has been put on the defensive over a bill she had sponsored that would have required the teaching of masturbation in public school sex-education courses, according to the Lawlor camp. "She authored it, and it's outrageous," said Chris French, a spokesman for Mr. Lawlor, offering to fax a copy to a reporter and adding, "Jim Lawlor finds it tasteless and he won't discuss it."
Karlyn Sturmer, the campaign director for Ms. Taborsak, called the legislation "a nonexistent entity that has taken on a life of its own." Ms. Taborsak wrote the bill in 1990 only to block another amendment, offered by a conservative colleague, that would have required schools to teach abstinence for curbing teen-age pregnancy and the spread of AIDS, she said. "It was a means of saving the rest of the bill, and it killed that amendment," Ms. Sturmer said. "These conservative, right-wing guys were not going to get up and discuss the M-word."
The two Democrats are far apart on other issues as well. Ms. Taborsak supports the right to an abortion, and Mr. Lawlor does not. He emphasizes developing businesses in cities that have lost jobs, like Waterbury, and his campaign accuses Ms. Taborsak of being a "tunnel-vision, tax-and-spend" politician. Ms. Taborsak, on the other hand, has accused Mr. Lawlor of accepting donations from lawyers who might appear before him in court. Mr. Lawlor had received the endorsement of the district Democratic convention, while Ms. Taborsak has been endorsed by A Connecticut Party, the third party formed by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. when he ran for office. Thus, even if she loses the Democratic primary, Ms. Taborsak could continue in the race as a third-party candidate,
 
Second Congressional District
 In the Second Congressional District in eastern Connecticut, two Republicans are vying for the right to challenge Representative Sam Gejdenson, a Democrat, in November. One of them, Glenn T. Carberry, ran against Mr. Gejdenson four years ago and lost decidedly, but thinks he may do better this year.
"The major issues are jobs and our economic future," Mr. Carberry, a New London lawyer, said last week. The district, which covers most of the eastern half of the state, includes many rural communities as well as cities and towns long dependent on military contracts for jobs. Mr. Carberry has never held public office before, although during the Persian Gulf war he engaged in efforts like handing out bumper stickers that read "I Support Our Troops in the Gulf."
His opponent in the primary, Ed Munster, is a statistician who has served in the State Senate. A man who bears a remarkable physical resemblance to former Democratic Presidential candidate Michael S. Dukakis, Mr. Munster said he thought he had the experience and the recognition in the district to win both the primary and the November general election.
"I've been involved in local government and been elected State Senator," Mr. Munster said. "Glenn Carberry has never been elected to any office." He added: "I have two kids in college, a mortgage on my house and a note on my car. I'm very much like the other people in this district." If elected, he said, he would continue an effort to help small businesses through tax abatements and other programs.
 
Sixth Congressional District
 The situation in the Sixth District is reminiscent of that in the First, with a popular incumbent, Representative Nancy L. Johnson, a five-term Republican from New Britain. The district, which covers the northwest quarter of Connecticut, is being fought over by a pair of Democrats, Gene Slason, an accountant from Southington, and Alan DiCara of Winsted.
Mr. Slason, who has been endorsed by the district Democratic convention, said in a telephone interview that he believed he was ahead in the primary and could beat Mrs. Johnson in November. "There's never been a more volatile electorate," he said. He supports a national health insurance plan and reforms in Congress, such as a 12-year term limit for members of the House and restrictions on spending, and says he will promote Connecticut's economy if elected.
Mr. DiCara, a 42-year-old political newcomer who works for a garage-door installation company, said he would decline the most recent pay raise for members of Congress, push for quality health insurance for all Americans, and promote an economic plan that calls for slashing defense spending by $500 billion and allocating the savings toward a tax cut and a reduction of the Federal deficit. "I expect to win the primary in a landslide and go on to win in November," Mr. DiCara said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brook Johnson, top, and Chris Burnham, Senate candidates. (Associated Press; Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STATE SENATE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STATE SENATE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); MAYORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE; KENNELLY, BARBARA B (REPR); LUDGIN, ROBERT F; STEELE, PHILIP L; JOHNSON, BROOK; BURNHAM, CHRISTOPHER B BARBARA B KENNELLY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



368 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes: The American Banknote Company Building;
A Bronx Hybrid: Mill, or an Arsenal?

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
IT'S a point of reference for millions of motorists, the biggest building on either side of the Bruckner Expressway. But the sprawling hillside complex in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx has always had a mysterious, fortified air -- a cross between a textile mill and an arsenal.
Now the American Banknote Company Building at the corner of Tiffany Street and Lafayette Avenue is up for landmark designation. The owners are not protesting. They have the larger problem of keeping the Bronx Apparel Center filled with tenants. 
 The American Banknote Company was founded in 1858 as a merger of several engraving and printing firms. Until the Bureau of Printing and Engraving was established in 1877, it printed currency and stamps, in addition to securities and other documents for foreign and American customers. By the turn of the century it occupied factory-office space at 78-86 Trinity Place, behind the Trinity churchyard.
In 1908, seeking to expand on less expensive land, the company bought a large irregular block in the Bronx bounded by Tiffany and Barretto Streets and Garrison and Lafayette Avenues. The new plant, completed in 1911, brought in over 2,000 skilled laborers earning $40 to $75 a week to a section still largely open for development.
The firm of Kirby, Petit & Green had already designed a new neo-Classical executive office for American Banknote on Trinity Place; it gave the newly separated factory operation an unabashedly industrial look.
The building is T-shaped, with a red-brick facade and great windows set in massive arched bays. The upright of the T is a chubby, three-story building for the printing operations, with banks of sawtooth skylights on the top. The top member of the T is skinny, five stories high, with a central crenelated tower, running 466 feet along Lafayette Avenue. Lafayette rises steeply to the east along this front, perhaps 40 feet, and the slim factory outlined by this steep grade and capped by the tower is an unmistakable juxtaposition of architecture and topography.
In 1909 The New York Times noted that the building was planned with only one entrance although it has over 1,500 feet of street front. Architecture & Building magazine remarked on its "arsenal-like appearance with a pervading sense of strength and security." Indeed, this is the element that marks the American Banknote Building as a hybrid. It has wide, factory windows and a typically open factory plan. But it also has the fortified look of an armory -- and it has no prominent gate.
Until 1941, Joseph R. Ford occupied a room in the tower with a special mission -- he attempted to counterfeit, under the most favorable conditions, the company's currency, stock certificates and other products. His efforts were carefully analyzed to improve the company's engraving, papers and inks. By 1961, The Saturday Evening Post reported that in one day over 5 million pieces of paper were processed. The company was at that time printing half of the securities of the New York Stock Exchange. By 1980, food stamps were 8 percent of sales.
IN 1985, the company moved to Blauvelt, N.Y. Walter Cahn and Max Blauner, already active in textiles and real estate, bought the building and created the Bronx Apparel Center, drawing manufacturing refugees from high Manhattan rents. "Labor supply here is the best," says Mr. Blauner. "In the beginning it was very good, we filled up in three years." There are good subway connections and the building has sweeping views of Long Island Sound and Hell Gate.
But now as rents have fallen to $7 or $8 a square foot in Manhattan, the $4 a square foot that makes the 425,000-square-foot Bronx Apparel Center profitable is no longer competitive; Mr. Blauner says that offers come in at $2.50 a square foot. He feels part of the problem is reporting about crime in the Bronx. "In Manhattan, they just say the individual street but up here it's just 'the Bronx,' " he says.
In June, the Landmarks Preservation Commission held hearings on designating the American Banknote Company Building as part of the effort by Laurie Beckelman, its chairwoman, to expand activity beyond Manhattan.
The owners of large industrial buildings generally do not consider landmark designation economically valuable. But the owners of the American Banknote Building did not appear at the hearing to oppose it.
"Once they start something you have to spend a lot of money to fight it" says Mr. Blauner. "We'd lose -- and anyway it's a beautiful building for preservation. But the city has almost tripled our real estate taxes in five years and we've just lost tenants for 200,000 square feet. We are in a bad way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Photographed in 1911, the American Banknote Company building on Tiffany Street in the Bronx. (Underhill Collection/Museum of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (92%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VALID SA (92%); BRONX APPAREL CENTER (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRONX APPAREL CENTER (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; HUNTS POINT (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); TEXTILE MFG (72%); TEXTILE MILLS (72%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER MAX BLAUNER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



369 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Focus: St. Augustine, Fla.;
A Golf Community, Plus P.G.A. Complex

BYLINE: By RUTH REJNIS

DATELINE: ST. AUGUSTINE, FLA.

 BODY:
AT a 6,300-acre site eight miles north of downtown, yet another scenario is about to be enacted on how to market a residential community based on golf.
But the developer of Saint Johns, as the community will be known, says he is offering more than usual -- a different layout plus a 450-acre business-entertainment complex that will be built on the site by the P.G.A. (Professional Golf Association) Tour Inc. 
 How different a layout? For one thing, said James L. Davidson Jr. of Jacksonville, Fla., the Saint Johns developer, homes will be set away from the golf course.
"Golfers won't have to feel as though they're playing in someone's backyard," he said. And for residents, golf won't "take over the residential experience." And unlike other golf courses, he said, this one won't emphasize water-oriented hazards.
Saint Johns will rise in the county of the same name in northeast Florida. Straddling Interstate 95, it will consist of 7,200 residential units, predominantly one-family, detached houses selling for $125,000 to more than $350,000, plus some rental apartments renting for about $600 for a two-bedroom. The breakdown of for-sale and rental units has not yet been determined.
There will also be 2.5 million square feet of office space, 562,000 square feet of retail space and 2.46 million square feet of industrial space, 1,225 hotel rooms, and pools, tennis courts and an 18-hole golf course.
Mr. Davidson said commercial lots would go on sale next spring and residential lots in the fall of 1993.
A 70-acre regional park is planned, and the community will include more than 2,700 acres of environmentally protected land. The community, which is expected to take 15 to 20 years to complete, will have an elementary, middle and high school and eventually have a population of 18,000. No architect has yet been selected.
Construction of an 82-acre clover leaf interchange that will direct visitors to Saint Johns will begin at the end of the summer at I-95 and Nine Mile Road. Next spring, work will begin on the $140 million P.G.A. business-and-entertainment complex. Still in the design stage, it will have a golf Hall of Fame, a golf academy, a resort hotel and offices for P.G.A. Tour Productions, which produces national television programs and videos about the sport. All will be in separate buildings around two 18-hole golf courses.
"If you're building on a large scale in Florida in the 1990's," said Mr. Davidson, "and you have access to I-95 or I-75 or some other major highway, it's clearly an economic plus to have a tourist-like attraction in the development. We have that with the P.G.A. complex."
Residential communities wrapped around headquarters buildings for golf associations are hardly new to Florida. In Palm Beach Gardens, a dozen miles northwest of Palm Beach, the P.G.A. National Resort and Spa opened in 1980 and is still building homes for $134,900 to over $700,000. The headquarters for P.G.A. of America, which oversees golf club professionals, is in that complex.
That resort also offers five 18-hole golf courses, a 335-room hotel, 19 tennis courts, a shopping center and what P.G.A. National says is the largest croquet complex in the Western Hemisphere.
THE Ladies Professional Golf Association, based in Daytona Beach, about 50 miles south of St. Augustine, also has a golf headquarters linked to a residential community on the drawing board. Like St. Johns, it will be along heavily traveled I-95. where it crosses I-92, in Volusia County.
Now in temporary quarters in Daytona Beach, where it relocated from Texas in 1989, the L.P.G.A. has targeted a 4,000-acre site for a planned community that will be built jointly by the city and the private sector.
The project is in the approval stage on some phases, said Kathryn H. Milthorpe, director of finance and administration for the L.P.G.A. The city began construction last June on the first of two municipal golf courses that will be on the site.
The name, for the time being, is L.P.G.A. Daytona Beach Resort.
Residential and commercial facilities are under the aegis of Indigo Development Inc., the development arm of Consolidated-Tomoka Land Company, which owns many citrus groves in the state.
The Saint Johns site is owned by William B. Dunavant Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Dunavant Enterprises, the world's largest cotton brokerage, with headquarters in Memphis. The company has developed smaller commercial and residential communities in other parts of the country. Cummer Land Trust, a family property holding based in Jacksonville, has a small ownership stake in the site.
Mr. Dunavant hired Mr. Davidson in 1987 to take over the development, then in the planning stage and known as Saint Johns Harbor. At the time, Mr. Davidson was with Arvida Corporation, developer of residential and business communities in several southern states. Arvida also developed Sawgrass, the resort community at Ponte Vedra Beach, about 10 miles east of the Saint Johns site.
Sawgrass is the home of the P.G.A. Tour, which is the sanctioning body for men's professional golf. The headquarters of P.G.A. Tour, a nonprofit, tax-exempt organization, will remain in Sawgrass.
Mr. Davidson noted that the Saint Johns community, exclusive of the P.G.A. buildings, "requires no financing" and "is a debt-free project, with 100 percent equity."
He expects that when it comes to selling homes his principal competition will be Ponte Vedra Beach and Jacksonville, a city of 635,000 whose southern limits are 15 miles north of Saint Johns.
He expects minor rivalry from Palm Coast, a similar community minus a high-profile tourist attraction, about 35 miles south and also off I-95. ITT Community Development Corporation began developing that 48,000-acre site, with homes in many price ranges, some 20 years ago.
ALL of northeast Florida has experienced sizable growth over the last decade, with Jacksonville, its largest metropolitan area, showing a nearly 25 percent increase in population since the 1980 census. The Jacksonville International Airport recently underwent expansion and a nearly $3 million expansion plan was announced earlier this year for the St. Augustine Airport, about five miles from Saint Johns.
Lightly settled, St. Johns County has a population of just 90,000. St. Augustine, the nation's oldest permanent European settlement, and the principal tourism attraction for the northeast corner of the state, is the county seat and, with 12,000 people, has the second largest population in the county, after Ponte Vedra Beach, which has about 25,000 residents..
There are other mixed-use communities in varying stages of development in northeast Florida, although none on the scale of Saint Johns. One is about 20 miles to the north and west of the Saint Johns community, in equally sparsely populated Clay County. Ground-breaking took place earlier this summer for a 2,600-acre residential and commercial project on Fleming Island, a peninsula along the St. John's River.
That $150 million planned community, which will be developed in the next 12 to 16 years, calls for 4,600 residential units -- most of them one-family homes ranging from $100,000 to $350,000 -- plus retail, commercial and industrial space. And an 18-hole golf course.
Co-developers of the project, known as the Crossings at Fleming Island, are East West Partners of Richmond, Va., and Champion Realty Corporation, a subsidiary of Champion International Corporation, a paper company based in Stamford, Conn. The site is a former tree farm owned by Champion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Davidson Jr., the developer of Saint Johns, on 6,300 acres. (Kelly LaDuke for The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida showing location of Saint Johns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PGA TOUR INC P G I (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: PGA TOUR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST AUGUSTINE (FLA) UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING GOLF (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); RESORTS (73%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); TENNIS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIDSON, JAMES L JR; REJNIS, RUTH MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



370 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
For Florida, a 6,300-Acre Golf Community

BYLINE: By RUTH REJNIS

DATELINE: ST. AUGUSTINE, FLA.

 BODY:
At a 6,300-acre site eight miles north of downtown, yet another scenario is about to be enacted on how to market a residential community based on golf.
But the developer of Saint Johns, as the community will be known, says he is offering more than usual -- a different layout plus a 450-acre business-entertainment complex that will be built on the site by the P.G.A. (Professional Golf Association) Tour Inc. 
 How different a layout? For one thing, said James L. Davidson Jr. of Jacksonville, Fla., the Saint Johns developer, homes will be set away from the golf course.
"Golfers won't have to feel as though they're playing in someone's backyard," he said. And for residents, golf won't "take over the residential experience." And unlike other golf courses, he said, this one won't emphasize water-oriented hazards.
Saint Johns will rise in the county of the same name in northeast Florida. Straddling Interstate 95, it will consist of 7,200 residential units, predominantly one-family, detached houses selling for $125,000 to more than $350,000, plus some rental apartments renting for about $600 for a two-bedroom. The breakdown of for-sale and rental units has not yet been determined.
There will also be 2.5 million square feet of office space, 562,000 square feet of retail space and 2.46 million square feet of industrial space, 1,225 hotel rooms, and pools, tennis courts and an 18-hole golf course.
Mr. Davidson said commercial lots would go on sale next spring and residential lots in the fall of 1993.
A 70-acre regional park is planned, and the community will include more than 2,700 acres of environmentally protected land. The community, which is expected to take 15 to 20 years to complete, will have an elementary, middle and high school and eventually have a population of 18,000. No architect has yet been selected.
Construction of an 82-acre clover leaf interchange that will direct visitors to Saint Johns will begin at the end of the summer at I-95 and Nine Mile Road. Next spring, work will begin on the $140 million P.G.A. business-and-entertainment complex.
Still in the design stage, it will have a golf Hall of Fame, a golf academy, a resort hotel and offices for P.G.A. Tour Productions, which produces national television programs and videos about the sport. All will be in separate buildings around two 18-hole golf courses.
"If you're building on a large scale in Florida in the 1990's," said Mr. Davidson, "and you have access to I-95 or I-75 or some other major highway, it's clearly an economic plus to have a tourist-like attraction in the development. We have that with the P.G.A. complex."
Residential communities wrapped around headquarters buildings for golf associations are hardly new to Florida. In Palm Beach Gardens, a dozen miles northwest of Palm Beach, the P.G.A. National Resort and Spa opened in 1980 and is still building homes for $134,900 to over $700,000. The headquarters for P.G.A. of America, which oversees golf club professionals, is in that complex.
That resort also offers five 18-hole golf courses, a 335-room hotel, 19 tennis courts, a shopping center and what P.G.A. National says is the largest croquet complex in the Western Hemisphere.
The Ladies Professional Golf Association, based in Daytona Beach, about 50 miles south of St. Augustine, also has a golf headquarters linked to a residential community on the drawing board. Like St. Johns, it will be along heavily traveled I-95. where it crosses I-92, in Volusia County.
Now in temporary quarters in Daytona Beach, where it relocated from Texas in 1989, the L.P.G.A. has targeted a 4,000-acre site for a planned community that will be built jointly by the city and the private sector.
The project is in the approval stage on some phases, said Kathryn H. Milthorpe, director of finance and administration for the L.P.G.A. The city began construction last June on the first of two municipal golf courses that will be on the site.
The name, for the time being, is L.P.G.A. Daytona Beach Resort.
Residential and commercial facilities are under the aegis of Indigo Development Inc., the development arm of Consolidated-Tomoka Land Company, which owns many citrus groves in the state.
The Saint Johns site is owned by William B. Dunavant Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Dunavant Enterprises, the world's largest cotton brokerage, with headquarters in Memphis. The company has developed smaller commercial and residential communities in other parts of the country. Cummer Land Trust, a family property holding based in Jacksonville, has a small ownership stake in the site.
Mr. Dunavant hired Mr. Davidson in 1987 to take over the development, then in the planning stage and known as Saint Johns Harbor. At the time, Mr. Davidson was with Arvida Corporation, developer of residential and business communities in several southern states. Arvida also developed Sawgrass, the resort community at Ponte Vedra Beach, about 10 miles east of the Saint Johns site.
Sawgrass is the home of the P.G.A. Tour, which is the sanctioning body for men's professional golf. The headquarters of P.G.A. Tour, a nonprofit, tax-exempt organization, will remain in Sawgrass.
Mr. Davidson noted that the Saint Johns community, exclusive of the P.G.A. buildings, "requires no financing" and "is a debt-free project, with 100 percent equity."
He expects that when it comes to selling homes his principal competition will be Ponte Vedra Beach and Jacksonville, a city of 635,000 whose southern limits are 15 miles north of Saint Johns.
He expects minor rivalry from Palm Coast, a similar community minus a high-profile tourist attraction, about 35 miles south and also off I-95. ITT Community Development Corporation began developing that 48,000-acre site, with homes in many price ranges, some 20 years ago.
All of northeast Florida has experienced sizable growth over the last decade, with Jacksonville, its largest metropolitan area, showing a nearly 25 percent increase in population since the 1980 census. The Jacksonville International Airport recently underwent expansion and a nearly $3 million expansion plan was announced earlier this year for the St. Augustine Airport, about five miles from Saint Johns.
Lightly settled, St. Johns County has a population of just 90,000. St. Augustine, the nation's oldest permanent European settlement, and the principal tourism attraction for the northeast corner of the state, is the county seat and, with 12,000 people, has the second largest population in the county, after Ponte Vedra Beach, which has about 25,000 residents..
There are other mixed-use communities in varying stages of development in northeast Florida, although none on the scale of Saint Johns. One is about 20 miles to the north and west of the Saint Johns community, in equally sparsely populated Clay County. Ground-breaking took place earlier this summer for a 2,600-acre residential and commercial project on Fleming Island, a peninsula along the St. John's River.
That $150 million planned community, which will be developed in the next 12 to 16 years, calls for 4,600 residential units -- most of them one-family homes ranging from $100,000 to $350,000 -- plus retail, commercial and industrial space. And an 18-hole golf course.
Co-developers of the project, known as the Crossings at Fleming Island, are East West Partners of Richmond, Va., and Champion Realty Corporation, a subsidiary of Champion International Corporation, a paper company based in Stamford, Conn. The site is a former tree farm owned by Champion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Davidson Jr., the developer of Saint Johns, on 6,300 acres. (Kelly LaDuke for The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida showing location of Saint Johns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: P G I (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST. AUGUSTINE (FLA) UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; LAND USE POLICIES; GOLF; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL GOLF (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); RESORTS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); TENNIS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: REJNIS, RUTH MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



371 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 20; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: At 91, State's Senior Citizen of Year

BYLINE: By TOM CALLAHAN

DATELINE: ARMONK

 BODY:
WHEN R. Eugene Curry found out that he had been selected 1992 New York State Senior Citizen of the Year by the State Senate and Assembly Standing Committees on Aging, he was, he said, "absolutely surprised." But the selection of Mr. Curry, now 91 years old, came as no surprise to those familiar with his work over the years.
"He is the founding father of aging services in Westchester," said Mae Carpenter, director of the Westchester County Office for the Aging. "He was instrumental in starting one of the first advocacy offices for the aging in this country. He accomplished this before the Federal funding came through to officially start such an office in 1973." 
 But Mr. Curry, a man whose trademark is a flower in the lapel of his jacket, rejects the founding father title. "That is a misnomer," he said in a recent interview in the Armonk home he has shared with his wife, Margery, for 64 years. "I was working with others who were having these great ideas. I was part of it but not the founding father. I just helped others carry out ideas."
Mr. Curry began working with the elderly in 1947 as administrator and treasurer of the still-functioning private Osborn Retirement Community in Rye. Born in Kansas, Mr. Curry settled in Westchester in 1927 and went into real estate. He managed the properties of the Osborn Home before becoming administrator of the home. He stayed as administrator until 1971.
 
A Growth in Regulations
 "There were wonderful people there," Mr. Curry said of the home's residents. "They had wisdom and wit. It was most interesting to be associated with them, and I enjoyed it very much."
In those days, there were few regulations governing the operation of a nursing home. Mr. Curry pointed out that the only inspections involved the County Board of Health's checking the faucets of the milk dispensers. Today, nursing home operators face myriad regulations, all part of the "necessary balances" in Mr. Curry's view. "The abuses of the past cried too high too often, and the deceit and fraud perpetuated on the old was not right," he said.
Public attitudes toward aging were also much different back then. "When I started out, people felt themselves older at 70 than they do today," he said. "Today at 70 they want to keep working and have laws to allow it."
While working at the Osborn home, Mr. Curry got involved in many issues affecting the elderly. He became a member of the Westchester Council of Social Agencies, a volunteer advisory body, and was chairman of the Westchester County Committee for the Aging and Chronically Ill from 1954 to 1974. While on the council, Mr. Curry helped establish the Senior Information and Referral Service, which later became the model for the County Office for the Aging. He also helped form the New York State Association of Homes and Services for the Aging.
 
A Conference Organizer
 When he retired from the Osborn Home, he continued working in the field. Mr. Curry organized several counties in the state in 1971 to participate in that year's White House Conference for the Aging.
"Aging was not as popular an issue back then as it is now," said Daniel Sambol, head of social services for the Andrus Retirement Community in Hastings-on-Hudson. Mr. Sambol worked with Mr. Curry on the White House Conference and other matters. "Gene Curry made an enormous contribution. He was a driving force on behalf of the elderly. He is a very fine, decent human being."
In addition to his work with the elderly, Mr. Curry has been involved in many other community projects, ranging from being chairman of the Mianus Gorge Preserve for 13 years to co-founding the Banksville Community House, a recreation hall for youths in Armonk, in 1937.
He also taught as an adjunct professor of economics at New York University from 1930 to 1973. An avid painter since 1947, he received an associate degree in fine arts from Westchester Community College at the age of 87.
 
Inspired by His Wife
 Mr. Curry credits his wife of 64 years, Margery, as being his inspiration and support. Together, they raised four children, Margaret C. Gregg, Janet C. Harrison, Dr. Renwick E. Curry and John P. M. Curry. They have 14 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
"I try to keep thinking ahead, not backward," Mr. Curry said. "You can't let your mind dwell in the past or you won't get very far. There is still so much to be done for the elderly on issues like home and residential care, day care and Meals on Wheels supplements."
Mr. Curry is the second consecutive Westchester resident chosen as Senior Citizen of the Year. Last year's award went to John Winer of White Plains.

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Eugene Curry, selected as the New York State Senior Citizen of the Year by the State Senate and Assembly Standing Committees on Aging, with Margery, his wife of 64 years. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY OFFICE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY OFFICE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AGED AGING (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); ELDER HEALTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COUNTIES (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CALLAHAN, TOM; CURRY, R EUGENE RENWICK E CURRY (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



372 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: For Dr. Grebstein, There Comes a Time'

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: PURCHASE

 BODY:
DR. Sheldon N. Grebstein, a literary critic and scholar who has served as the president of the State University of New York at Purchase since 1981, announced last Wednesday that he will resign the post in July. In making official the news that he had told the faculty here some weeks ago, Dr. Grebstein said he was not leaving in defeat or to protest the budget cuts that have plagued the 64 State University campuses but because "it's time."
"I will have been in the job for 12 years, which is more than twice the national average of college presidential terms," Dr. Grebstein said. "There comes a time when it's good for the university and good for me, too." 
 Dr. Grebstein said his approaching 65th birthday in February had also influenced his decision. He noted that his 19 years as an administrator -- including 6 years as the dean of arts and sciences at the State University at Binghamton and its undergraduate liberal arts division, Harpur College -- had not left much time for "teaching, scholarship or the exploration of new fields of knowledge." He hopes to join the Purchase faculty as a professor of literature, he said.
 
Guardian of Academic Programs
 The tweedy president, a specialist in 20th-century American literature who has written or edited 6 books and published 32 essays and reviews, has been widely praised throughout the Purchase community for safeguarding academic programs during a time of steep cutbacks in the State University budget. Citing figures from the university chancellor, Dr. D. Bruce Johnstone, Dr. Grebstein said the university had absorbed $283 million in permanent cuts during the last four years alone.
Noting what he termed the "unique mission" of the Purchase school as "a first-rate quality public college oriented to the visual and performing arts," Dr. Johnstone said Dr. Grebstein had shown "extraordinary leadership in the toughest decade this university has faced."
Richard Maass, chairman of the Purchase College Council, which will choose a new president, said, "One of the surprising things" that Dr. Grebstein did was to lead the college's first capital campaign. "He never did it before, and he did a hell of a job," Mr. Maass said of the drive -- called the Campaign for Creativity -- which raised $6.13 million for the school from September 1991 through last May.
During Dr. Grebstein's tenure, the campus here -- although seen by some as remote and austere -- has become an important focus for local performing arts groups and adults enrolled in the division of continuing education. Although the school's efforts to balance community needs with the needs of its academic divisions have not pleased everyone, local arts leaders say the Performing Arts Center, a four-theater complex on the campus, is now an indispensable community fixture.
 
Praise From Conductors
 "Without the Performing Arts Center, there would be no professional symphony orchestra in Westchester County," said Paul Lustig Dunkel, the music director of the New Orchestra of Westchester. The orchestra will begin its 10th season on Sept. 19 in Theater A. Richard Kapp, the music director of the Philharmonia Virtuosi, which has performed at the center since 1977, said Dr. Grebstein's "balanced position" had been largely effective in assuring community access to the theaters.
Dr. Grebstein also reached out to the county's schoolchildren with the SUNY Purchase Westchester School Partnership, a multifaceted program for academically gifted and disadvantaged students, and for teachers.
In a conversation in his office here on the college's opening day last Tuesday, Dr. Grebstein said he had held fast to academic positions while letting maintenance, administrative and clerical jobs go. Noting that New York State is ranked 34th in per capita allotment of state funds for higher education and 47th in the percentage of state tax revenues earmarked for public colleges and universities, Dr. Grebstein said he was "very disappointed in how we've been treated budgetarily" by the administration of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
The university must lobby the state government for its budget, while individual campuses appeal to the chancellor for their own needs. The Board of Regents must approve any new degree programs at the university but exercises no control over the university budget or student issues.
The Legislature reduced its contribution to the State University this year by $143 million, an amount that was expected to be offset partly by the third tuition raise in two years. Full-time tuition for undergraduates is now $2,650 for state residents and $6,550 for out-of-state residents.
 
Divisional Rivalry Persists
 All was not so bleak in the early years of the college, said Michael A. Trolen, an associate professor of visual arts who joined the faculty in 1972. He recalled the school then as "a burgeoning, growing, optimistic institution" whose forward movement was thwarted by "escalating oil prices and out-of-sight inflation."
Dr. Grebstein said that when he took the helm, "this was a young school that was supposed to be growing and developing." He added, "There was supposed to be a lot of money available, and we were supposed to be getting 37 new faculty members."
Instead, he said, "we lost 11 staff positions the first year and 65 the next."
Shrinking funds have not helped the rivalry between the college's two divisions, the School of the Arts and the College of Letters and Science, and some say they hope a new president will resolve "the persona issue" and bring the school's identity into focus.
 
The Arts and More
 "We're known for the arts, but we do a lot of other important things, too," said Dr. Alfred N. Hunt, Dean of the College of Letters and Science, where students study economics, biology, math, literature and history. Mr. Maass, the council chairman, said that while such well-known alumni as the actor Wesley Snipes, a 1988 Purchase graduate, brought recognition to the school, achievements by alumni of the College of Letters and Science were less well publicized.
Dr. Grebstein said that one of the most "difficult and challenging jobs" facing a new president was "to keep the original vision of the college and create a marvelous synergy between the arts and the liberal arts." He conceded that such a synthesis, in which the two divisions enriched and complemented each other, had not been attained during his tenure.
"It takes money to create programs in which arts and liberal arts students and faculty work together," Dr. Grebstein said. He added that if he had the money, he would create "a whole curriculum" to give students from both divisions "a common experience."
That was one deferred dream he would work on this year, he said. Also, he would continue to lobby the State Legislature for permission to build faculty and staff housing on campus. "No one can afford to live around here," the president said. "It's hard to recruit and keep faculty in the natural sciences," especially, "because they've got to live close to their labs."
 
Deterioration Cited
 Dr. Grebstein said the money raised in the Campaign for Creativity would be used for scholarships, student performances and exhibitions, visiting-artist and scholar programs and scientific research. The Melville Scholars Program, a tutorial program for minority students considered "at risk," has already begun, he said.
"Not a penny" of the money would be used to replace missing state dollars or to shore up loose bricks, Dr. Grebstein said, although the widespread deterioration of the campus is often and loudly lamented.
Students describe leaking hot water pipes in residence halls, music practice rooms so cold that young musicians get tendonitis and "apartments on campus that are falling apart," one senior said. Full-time enrollment is 2,900, and there are about 1,300 part-time students. Of those, 1,625 live on campus. Undergraduates in all departments said they loved the college and believed they were getting an excellent education there.
"I respect the teachers here a lot," said Andrew Dancescu, a senior majoring in music composition and classical guitar. "It's a great faculty," agreed Laura Heady, a sophomore in the dance division. "We work as a unit to get around budget cuts."
 
A Comparison With Yale
 John Doherty, a senior majoring in design technology, said the theater division was "starting to be compared to Yale and N.Y.U.," although budget cutbacks had eliminated some of "the Broadway people who used to come here to teach" as adjuncts.
Helene Tyler, a senior math major, said, "All the emotional and intellectual things are here in as full force as ever." She said she was concerned, however, that the academic and cultural diversity of the campus, which had originally drawn her here, would be hurt by rising tuitions. "A lot of my minority friends in the city aren't coming back," said Milton Mino, a political science major from Brooklyn.
The Purchase College Council will recommend a new president to the Chancellor, who must pass the recommendation to the university's Board of Trustees. Mr. Maass, the council chairman, said that a search committee would be in place by the end of September and that a choice would be made in about six months. The group would seek "someone who recognizes the uniqueness of the institution" and could balance the needs of both divisions, he said.
Dr. Nathaniel H. Siegel, senior vice president for academic affairs, said there was no doubt who should follow Dr. Grebstein. "We're going to look for a messiah," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Sheldon N. Grebstein (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE PURCHASE COLLEGE COUNCIL (75%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE PURCHASE COLLEGE COUNCIL (75%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS LITERATURE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (62%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA; GREBSTEIN, SHELDON N (DR) SHELDON N GREBSTEIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



373 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 9; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: Eleanor Charles

 BODY:

FREE-TRADE LECTURE
 The North American Free Trade Agreement, if ratified by the participating countries of the United States, Canada and Mexico, will eliminate customs duties on thousands of products and create changes in other areas of trade. 
 A comprehensive discourse on its ramifications will be given by Rodman C. Rockefeller, chairman of the United States Council of the Mexico-United States Business Committee, at the World Trade Club of Westchester on Friday. The luncheon meeting will be held at the Tarrytown Hilton Inn at 455 South Broadway and will begin with an 11:30 A.M. reception.
The committee made contributions to the agreement in liberalizing Mexican trade policies. Mr. Rockefeller, an advocate of economic development for minorities, is also director of the United States-Mexico Commission for Educational and Cultural Exchange.
A resident of Westchester, he serves on the boards of numerous institutions, including the Americas Society, Council of the Americas, Phelps Memorial Hospital, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Museum of Modern Art.
Tickets for the luncheon are $40 and can be reserved by calling 948-6444 no later than Wednesday.
 
PAINTING EXHIBITION
 Renee Kahn is well-known in Connecticut, particularly in her hometown of Stamford, for saving worthwhile old buildings as head of the Historic Neighborhood Preservation Program, which she founded almost two decades ago. In some instances she has been instrumental in providing low-cost housing through the restoration of old residential stock.
In addition, she has taught preservation theory and technique at area colleges and universities and testified at local and state hearings on the historic significance of threatened buildings.
In her spare time she paints, using her educational background in fine arts. A showing of her roguish pictures opens at the Schoolhouse Gallery on Owens Road in Croton Falls today with a reception from 2 to 5 P.M.
She said that she has been influenced by Max Beckmann, George Grosz and Marc Chagall but that her work is not as ferocious as that of Beckmann or Grosz's or as whimsical as Chagall's. In a series on the Seven Deadly Sins, she depicts Envy as two portly matrons eyeing two younger and more lissome women in a dressing room at Loehmann's.
The exhibition, which includes a collection of cartoons from the 20's through the 40's, will remain through Oct. 11. Viewing hours are Thursday through Sunday from 1 to 5 P.M. Call 277-8477 for more information.
 
BROADWAY HITS
 Patrick A'Hearn, Loni Ackerman, Marcy Degonge and Julie Waldman- Stiel have appeared in various roles in the Broadway productions of "Les Miserables," "Cats," "Evita" and "The Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber," eminently qualifying them as starring members of the cast of "A Night of Broadway's Greatest" at the Yorktown Performing Arts Theater onSaturday at 8 P.M.
The single performance consists of excerpts from musicals that have won Tony Awards, and the soloists will be joined by singers, dancers and the orchestra of the Yorktown Regional Theater Company.
The theater is on Veterans Road in Yorktown Heights, and tickets are $13, $15 and $18. Call 962-6665 for reservations.
 
GERMAN FILM CLASSIC
 When "Madchen in Uniform" was produced in Germany in 1931, and shown in many countries including the United States, it received universally favorable reviews.
The film stars Mady Christians and has an all-female cast, most of them young girls portraying students in a German girls' school where discipline and psychological manipulation are now viewed by film scholars as early portents of the Germany to come.
It will be shown on Friday at 8 P.M. in the Academic Arts Building of Westchester Community College in Valhalla. Admission is $4; people 65 and older pay $3. The college is at 75 Grasslands Road. Call 285-6700 for more information.
 
PLANT SYMPOSIUM
 The Nutraceutical Revolution is what Dr. Stephen L. DeFelice of Harvard's Biomedical Research Management Program calls the current emphasis on proper food and organic remedies, rather than chemicals, as the path to good health. He is one of several academicians and practicing doctors who will participate in the third yearly symposium on "Healing Plants: Myth, Magic and Medicine," scheduled on Friday from 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.
Geared for lay people as well as professionals, the program will explore the healing potential of plants; Belize and Polynesia as prime sources of medicinal plants, and cancer prevention through diet, among other topics.
The speakers are Dr. Paul Cox, professor of botany at Brigham Young University; Dr. Mark Micozzi, director of the National Museum of Health and Medicine in Washington; Dr. Rosita Arvigo, co-founder of the Ix Chel Tropical Research Center in Belize, and Dr. James McChesney of the University of Mississippi.
Admission, a box lunch and program book cost $98.
In connection with the symposium, Dr. Arvigo will conduct a workshop on healing herbs Saturday from 2 to 4 P.M. at a cost of $24. Barrie Kavash, a naturalist, author and board member of the Institute of American Indian Studies in Washington, Conn., will hold a Native American Healing Herbs workshop next Sunday from 10 A.M. to 1 P.M., priced at $36.
Chinese herbalism and aromatherapy will be explored in another Sunday workshop from 2 to 5 P.M. with Edwin T. Morris, an expert on Asian healing arts. The cost is $36. Call (212) 220-8720 for reservations or more information about the symposium or workshops.
 
COFFEE CONCERTS
 A variety of gourmet coffees and pastries and a social hour with the musicians set the mood for the Philharmonia Virtuosi's Sunday Coffee Concerts series, beginning today at 2 P.M. in Theater C of the Performing Arts Center at the State University of New York at Purchase.
The pianist Anton Nel will be the soloist in a program of Faure and Dvorak. Tickets are $18 and can be reserved on Visa or Mastercard by calling 693-5595. A complete schedule of the five Coffee Concerts, which are available at a series price of $70, can be obtained by calling the same number.
 
YOGA CLASSES
 A series of seven yoga classes will begin on Wednesday and continue through Oct. 28 at the Hammond Museum in North Salem. Noncompetitive breathing and relaxation techniques and the basic postures of yoga are said to improve the body's flexibility and vitality.
Diana Cote, the instructor, requires students to bring their own mats or thick comforters and to wear white clothing. The one-hour classes begin at 7:30 P.M. The cost for seven sessions is $70.
The museum is on Deveau Road. Call 669-5033 for more information.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); THEATER (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); PAINTING (72%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MARC CHAGALL (58%); GEORGE GROSZ (58%); MAX BECKMANN (58%); RODMAN C ROCKEFELLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



374 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Economic Mismanagement, German Style

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Misery on behalf of principle is justified, especially if someone else is doing the suffering.
That would seem to be the operating policy for government leaders in almost all of Western Europe this year. Having adopted a policy of European integration and monetary convergence, they will stick to it no matter what pain is inflicted on their populations by high interest rates and rising unemployment. 
 There are few economists, or politicians for that matter, who doubt that Britain and most of the rest of Europe would be better off with lower interest rates, or who doubt that at the moment those currencies are overvalued relative to the German mark. The result is slower growth, or no growth at all, for many countries.
So, you might ask, why not lower interest rates and devalue the currencies against the mark?
Because, say the politicians, it would be wrong. "All my adult life, I have seen British governments driven off their virtuous pursuit of low inflation by market problems or political pressures," thundered John Major, the British Prime Minister. "The soft option, the devaluer's option, the inflationary option, would be a betrayal of our future." So the present can suffer.
The decision of Europe to tie itself to the German mark and essentially to cede many decisions to the German central bank, the Bundesbank, was made in the name of monetary union, in the belief that a financially unified Europe could better compete with the United States and Japan, and in the confident expectation that Germany's fiscal policy would remain prudent and responsible.
Now, the politicians believe, to diverge from that course would destroy their credibility. Never mind that fiscal responsibility went out the window in Germany when it completed a leveraged buyout of East Germany on extremely generous terms. The Bundesbank, which warned against the deal, is keeping interest rates high to control inflation, which may make sense from a German perspective, but not from a European one.
The French will vote next Sunday on the Maastricht treaty, and approval might buy some time for Europe to try to keep the current system patched together. Rejection would probably lead eventually to currency devaluations and to lower European interest rates.
Almost everyone west of the Rhine hopes that the Germans will change their policy, and it is possible, as Merrill Lynch strategist Chuck Clough suggests, that such a move could spark a rally in stock and bond markets in both Europe and the United States. But so far the Bundesbank has sent no signals of such intentions. And the other Governments feel powerless to protect their own countries from the consequences of Germany's current policy.
There is nothing wrong with the idea of economic and monetary union in Europe, but the lesson of this fiasco is likely to be that such an arrangement must be the result of governments' following similar policies, not a substitute for such coordination.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 23.77 to 3,305.70," tracks Dow Jones average, Sept. 4-11, 1992; "Inflation Falls in Britain ..." tracks year-to-year changes in retail prices, 1990-Aug. 1992; "... And So Does the Economy," tracks year-to-year change in Britain's gross domestic product, 1990-Aug. 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GERMANY; UNITED STATES; JAPAN EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); BONDS (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); BOND MARKETS (67%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (63%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



375 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: How Big a Disaster Can Insurers Survive?

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
As insurers add up the damage wrought by Hurricane Andrew, what is striking is not only the unprecedented size of the losses but also the frightening thought that the toll could have been much worse. Now American insurance companies and regulators are asking troubling questions: Just how big a natural disaster is possible? And is the insurance system strong enough to endure it?
For more than a decade, some large insurers say, they have been horrified by the prospect of a giant earthquake in a major city -- perhaps the size of the quake that struck San Francisco in 1906. Such an event, some economists argue, could result in insurance claims of $40 billion or more, and it could result in widespread insolvencies and a disruption of insurance markets across the country. 
 Now, even as it appears that claims from Andrew's damage may climb above $8 billion, many industry leaders say the private insurance system can easily survive a beating from the most expensive storms.
But one executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, chairman of the American International Group, recently voiced his dissent. "If Andrew had hit the south coast of Long Island," he said, "you would no longer have the strongest insurance industry, you would have the longest insurance industry -- some companies would be flat on their backs."
Less than two weeks before Andrew struck Florida, Congress held hearings on a bill that would make the Federal Government a reinsurer to the insurance industry in the case of giant earthquakes.
As bad as Andrew was, the insurance companies involved appear equipped to pay their policyholders. The companies that announced the largest losses -- State Farm, with an estimated $1.5 billion in claims, and Allstate, with $1.2 billion -- have plenty of capital on hand, analysts say. The worldwide system of catastrophe reinsurance, in which insurance companies pass on a certain part of their losses to reinsurers who in turn pass on some of their losses to their own reinsurers, appears to have worked well.
But a study last year prepared by Howard Kunreuther and Neil Doherty, two professors at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, found that in the case of a very severe earthquake, the insurance system would not fare so well. The study made projections about the impact of a quake of 8.3 on the Richter scale occurring at midday in San Francisco and assumed insurance losses in 1987 dollars of $40.3 billion. Of 18 companies studied, five would become insolvent and all would experience losses of 10 percent or more of their surplus, or capital. Based on limited data, the authors said they believed the reinsurance market would be hit even more heavily.
Perhaps the most significant impact for the nation would be a sudden reduction in the availability of insurance after such an earthquake, said Robert E. Litan, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute in Washington, who has also studied the issue. Insurance companies are limited in the amount of new insurance they can write by their levels of surplus: a company can write no more than $3 of insurance for every $1 of surplus.
"The real big one comes and lops off $40 billion or $50 billion in capital from an industry with a capitalization of $159 billion," Mr. Litan said. "You are going to see a national cutback in coverage. Many people, a lot of smaller businesses, nonprofit concerns just wouldn't be able to buy insurance."
Other industry-sponsored studies have estimated that insured damage from a very large earthquake in Los Angeles would be $40 billion or more, and similar losses might be expected in some of the 39 other states that seismologists say are vulnerable to earthquakes. A severe quake along the New Madrid fault in the Midwest, as happened in the last century, for example, could be particularly damaging to a city like Memphis, where building codes have not been adapted for earthquakes as they have in California.
In California, the anxiety of scientists is growing. Four years ago the United States Geological Survey said there was a 60 percent probability that a huge quake would strike the southern end of the San Andreas fault within 30 years. But after a quake of 7.4 in southern California in June, some experts expect a big earthquake much sooner.
Until recently, insurance industry studies indicated that the largest likely damages from severe hurricanes would be significantly smaller than those from a severe quake. One reason earthquakes are more expensive is that large commercial buildings like high-rise office towers can be destroyed by earthquakes but survive high winds.
Nonetheless, coastal development between 1980 and 1988 alone increased insured value along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts by an estimated 70 percent. Last year, D. G. Freidman, who heads the Natural Hazards Research Program for the Travelers Insurance Company, presented a paper in which he estimated that Hurricane Hugo, which caused $4.2 billion in insured damages when it hit offshore islands and the Carolinas in 1989, would have cost insurers roughly $20 billion if it had hit New York City.
Even if the private insurance market could withstand such a blow without insolvencies, Andrew is likely to make safety experts consider including hurricane damage in a Federal insurance program, said James L. Taylor, the assistant administrator of the Federal Insurance Administration, a part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. A hurricane or earthquake program, he said, would require localities to set standards for making houses more resistant to disasters.
To deal with the insurance consequences of the largest earthquakes, a House bill backed by insurance companies and sponsored by more than 60 members of Congress would create a national program of earthquake insurance for homeowners, sold through private insurance agents. Like the national flood insurance program, an earthquake program would establish "mitigation standards" to improve building codes around the country.
The bill would also create a reinsurance pool for insurers to pay part of the losses on a big quake. If the pool were exhausted, insurers would borrow from the Treasury and pay the loan back with interest over time.
"The key question is whether we are going to prefund these disasters," said Mr. Litan of the Brookings Institute. "Should we have some sort of social insurance mechanism that puts money aside for a rainy day?"
The Bush Administration questions whether the bill's standards are tough enough. James Barth, a professor of finance at Auburn University, agrees. He adds that if people believed the Government would always be there to pay a large portion of the bill, insurance companies would be less likely to build up capital to withstand a big earthquake, and citizens and localities would be less likely to make property quake resistant.
"In one way it could be like the savings and loan situation," he said. "People may engage in socially undesirable behavior if they know the Federal Government will be there to bail them out when things get really bad."
 
 
WHY NOT FEDERAL QUAKE INSURANCE?
 Proponents of a Federal insurance program for damages from severe earthquakes point to the success of the National Flood Insurance Program, which has about 2.5 million policies in force in 18,000 communities around the nation. Property owners buy the policies in addition to private coverage for damages from other causes. The program has allowed the Government to require localities where the policies are sold to adopt building codes and procedures intended to reduce flood damage.
James L. Taylor, the assistant administrator of the Federal Insurance Administration, said that communities participating in the program had suffered 70 percent less damage from floods than other communities. Since the program was established in 1969, he said, the Federal Government has saved $2 billion in disaster relief payouts. The program has not required taxpayer funds to pay claims or operating expenses since 1985.
One former administrator of the Federal Insurance Administration, Robert Hunter, who now heads the National Insurance Consumer Organization and often criticizes the industry, said he would favor an expanded program for consumers to cover damage from hurricanes, earthquakes and other disasters. But he said he would oppose a reinsurance part to the program unless there were provisions protecting taxpayers against having to bail out insurers who have taken too many risks in disaster-prone areas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A repeat of the quake that hit San Francisco in 1906 could result in $40 billion in claims, some economists say. (United Press International)
A severe hurricane hit Long Island in September 1938. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); ALL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); ALLSTATE CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; MIAMI (FLA) UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; INDUSTRY PROFILES; EARTHQUAKES INSURANCE (95%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); REINSURANCE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER MAURICE R GREENBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



376 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
The Future Wealth of the Nation

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
The schools have for years been an easy and popular target of social critics from every stance on the political spectrum. But in the last decade or so, as American economic fortunes have declined relative to powerhouse nations like Germany and Japan, criticism has grown especially intense from the business sector.
Employers complain that young Americans arrive at the workplace bereft of the academic and social skills needed for jobs and without the ability to adapt as external forces inevitably reshape employers' needs. 
 The problem, say two experts, lies not, as critics more typically say, with irrelevant feel-good classes on ethnic diversity and patty-cake academics. In fact, argue Marc Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the Economy, and Ray Marshall, Labor Secretary in the Carter Administration and now a professor of economics and public affairs at the University of Texas, schools do in some sense prepare children for the demands the workplace puts on them. The irony, they argue in their new book, "Thinking for a Living: Education and the Wealth of Nations" (Basic Books), is that many jobs now don't require much more than an eighth-grade education. If American corporations continue to organize the workplace as they do now, even that number is likely to decline.
Industry, they argue, has organized itself according to the scientific principles of management developed by Frederick Winslow Taylor, in which a middle stratum of well-educated managers micromanaged the work of line employees, whose tasks were broken down into their least complicated constituent parts. One result: mass production, American style, which delivered to the world reasonably priced, medium-quality consumer goods. The system provided the force that catapulted the United States into its recent role as a dominant economic force.
That system treats front-line workers -- the people who make the goods and deliver the services -- as interchangeable parts responsible for uncomplicated, repetitive tasks. As everyone who has watched jobs flow offshore recently knows, saving jobs depends on forcing wages down. And as wages go, so goes the American standard of living. The country can no longer depend on medium-wage, low-skill jobs to power the economy. It needs high-wage, high-skill jobs.
For that, the United States also needs what it has never had: an educational system that coordinates the social needs of the country with its economic needs. Part of the problem is that the critique of the schools comes more from the so-called cultural elite than it does from the grass roots.
Research cited in the book indicates many Americans think that the education system as a whole is in crisis -- but that their own schools are fine. Those attitudes, say the authors, come from their experience as parents. Either their kids are getting the same curriculum, hence the same jobs, as the parents got. Or, their kids are still getting into Harvard and Yale.
Those standards, such as they are, are the wrong ones, argue the authors, who believe American standards should be pegged to the achievements of students in competitor industrialized nations, not to historical standards in the United States. Japanese enter the workforce directly from high school, with the level of education provided in the United States by many four-year colleges.

THE United States, on the other hand, has a high dropout rate, about which it does little; no apprenticeship system analogous to one in Germany that funnels young people into crafts and trades; no organized system of preparing college-educated students for work, a failing that casts many of them adrift for years before they settle into "real" careers, and most damningly, a tolerance for the spectacle -- virtually unique in the industrialized West -- of more than a quarter of its children living in poverty.
The authors have a plan. They would establish, for example, a vertically integrated system of local and national boards, advised by educators, business people, politicians and policy makers, that would coordinate standards in the schools and the demands of the labor market.
The question, as they acknowledge, is whether any political leader has the fortitude to tell the truth about what needs to be done and whether Americans have the will to listen. According to the authors, we must.
 
 
BUILDING A UTOPIAN CONSENSUS
 When Ray Marshall began serving as Labor Secretary in the Carter Administration he had a fairly typical assessment of the American economy. "I thought it was the greatest system on earth," he said. But his experience, especially with young people in job training programs, persuaded him that an economy based on low-wage mass production would stagnate. "The only way we can improve income is to work harder," he said. In the late 1970's, "it became clear that we were working harder and standing still."
After he left office, Mr. Marshall, an economist, stayed interested in training and education issues. He served on the advisory council of the Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy, where in the mid-80's he met its director, Marc Tucker.
Parts of the remedy the two authors propose for the malaise they describe seem utopian. The price would be billions of dollars and require a nearly unimaginable level of integration and cooperation among interests -- business, education, government -- that traditionally view each other skeptically. But Mr. Marshall says the National Center on Education and the Economy has raised money to start building a private-sector consensus on educational standards that might later be brought to government. Mr. Tucker points out that some of what they propose is not far from gaining acceptance. Improved product quality, for example, a crucial element in raising the quality of jobs, is high on the agenda of many companies. As for the rest of the Tucker-Marshall program, Mr. Tucker says: "The longer the country is faced with economic stagnation, and remedies are tried and don't work, well, people will warm up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc Tucker, co-author of "Thinking for a Living," critiques the ties between schools and the labor market. (Phil Matt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION & THE ECONOMY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION & THE ECONOMY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: RAY MARSHALL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



377 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Sponsor Defaults

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Rita Clardige may be right in her letter on Aug. 9 saying that the collapsed real estate market, not rent control, is responsible for co-op sponsor defaults. But her conclusion that ending controls wouldn't help cure the problem is wrong. 
 Many sponsors anticipated that deficits from apartments with rents lower than maintenence costs would be made up by profits from turnover and sales. Turnover declined, however, as tenants with the lowest regulated rents were least likely to buy and least likely to move. The economy caused sales prices for available units to plummet, and there is now a glut of units available on the market from both sponsors and tenant-shareholders.
Most co-op conversions were not overfinanced and, according to recent studies, carry average debt burdens comparable to rental buildings (which are also in a cash squeeze from high vacancies, but that's another story). Raising regulated rents in co-ops to cover the cost of maintenance is not unreasonable -- after all, co-ops are non-profit owners, and it would cure current and expected sponsor defaults.
It should also be noted that while rent regulations may not have caused defaults directly, they are indirectly responsible. Co-op conversion in New York was largely the free market response to rent regulation. Outside of New York co-op conversions do not account for any significant number of units where rental markets are unregulated.
 
RANDY E. GLICK
 
The writer is president of Mautner-Glick Corporation of Manhattan, which owns and manages real estate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: DEFAULTING; COOPERATIVES; HOUSING RENT CONTROL (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); WRITERS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); 

PERSON: CLARDIGE, RITA RITA CLARDIGE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



378 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: SEPT. 6-12: Homestead Still Hurts;
Most Florida Storm Victims Regain Power and Water

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
As Hurricane Iniki, an Andrew-strength Pacific storm, battered Hawaii Friday and Saturday, 30,000 soldiers and an even larger army of civilian volunteers worked around the clock throughout the areas of South Florida devastated by Hurricane Andrew on Aug. 24.
By Friday, power had been restored to 90 percent of the homes and stores in Dade County, and all its 2 million residents except about 50,000 living in or near the town of Homestead had been told they can safely drink their tap water. 
 But in Homestead, the ordeal continued. Builders and tradesmen from around the country were flocking to the area, certain there was a killing to be made in the federally financed rebuilding.
But the boom may be less robust than some expected. On Thursday, the Senate Appropriations Committee voted down President Bush's request for $485 million to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, which had been the backbone of the local economy.
And Mr. Bush's proposal of $7.6 billion in Federal disaster relief itself fell considerably short of the $9 billion that Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida has said is the bare minimum necessary to get the disaster zone back on its feet.
There was also an indication that the situation could have been worse. Meteorologists concluded that Andrew generated gusts of wind of up to 200 miles an hour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; HOMESTEAD (FLA) UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FEDERAL AID (US); HURRICANE ANDREW HURRICANES (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WEATHER (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); METEOROLOGY (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



379 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Peace Dividend's Collateral Damage

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
IT MAY be victory. But the thrill of winning the cold war is all too quickly giving way to the agony of defense industries. While Washington is shrinking the great war machine that deterred Soviet expansion, hardly anyone wants to talk about how at least one million soldiers, sailors, bomb-builders, submarine designers, welders and other workers will be redeployed in the civilian economy.
Judged solely by the numbers, the military build-down ought to be easy. "Compared to the big conversions after World War II, Korea and Vietnam," said Robert Reischauer, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, "this one is small potatoes." 
 But the numbers do not tell the whole story. For unlike previous conversion efforts, this one is taking place in the teeth of a long, puzzlingly intense recession that has put new business ventures on hold and frightened corporate boardrooms into a frenzy of cost-cutting.
Equally problematic, the conversion comes at a time of deep division about the role of Government in buffering economic shocks. Conservatives argue that Washington's part in the transition should be minimal, while some of Bill Clinton's advisers want to seize the day to revivify the country's decaying infrastructure.
And if the Bush Administration has a plan, it was not to be found in the economic broadside the President delivered Thursday in Detroit. "There's not been any overarching strategy" to guide the transition, argues Paul Taibl, the research director of the Washington-based Defense Budget Project.
Congress's Office of Technology Assessment estimates that the Bush Administration's proposals would cut military spending by $52 billion annually by 1995 and cost more than a million jobs. And it speculates that the more radical surgery suggested by Brookings Institution economists, who are likely to be influential in a Clinton Administration, would pare spending by at least twice that much, eliminating 2.4 million jobs by the year 2001.
 
Absorbing the Workers
 But William Niskanen, a former adviser to President Reagan who is now chairman of the libertarian Cato Institute in Washington, offers a soothing perspective. Demobilization after World War II, he notes, slashed employment by 10 million in just two years and dumped the job seekers into a labor market half the current size. While the conversions after Korea and Vietnam were smaller, they were still large and abrupt compared to the deepest cuts contemplated today.
Government did little to smooth these postwar transitions, Mr. Niskanen notes. Yet workers were, for the most part, speedily reabsorbed. Of course, the impact is never evenly felt. More than 10 percent of the labor force in Alaska, Hawaii and Virginia is in military-related work. And the military or its contractors are the dominant employers in dozens of places from Bath, Me., to Monterey, Calif.
But here, too, the number-crunchers are inclined to be sanguine. Such company towns, they say, are the exceptions, not the rule.
The impact on industry is a somewhat different story. Military procurement represents 20 percent or more of the business of a dozen industries ranging from shipbuilding to ammunition to communications equipment. Some contractors, like Boeing and General Electric, could certainly thrive despite smaller Government orders. Others, notably shipbuilders, will be at great risk.
But in the eyes of many economists -- and most politicians -- stockholders deserve no special breaks. The damage to worry about is that done to employees, their families and their communities. A good transition policy has to deal with these human costs and also find productive work for the engineering elite.
Why, then, has the challenge of redeploying resources so long devoted to stopping Communism in its tracks been as welcome in Congress as a ban on free postage? And why has candidate Bush been so keen on flogging exports of fighter aircraft and proposing the reconstruction of the obsolete Air Force Base in Homestead, Fla., rather than explaining how he would invest the peace dividend?
An obvious answer is that the people are scared to death of the transition. With the economy expanding so slowly, a job lost today could mean no job at all for a very long time.
History suggests that local economic shocks -- in this case, base and plant closings -- dissipate quickly. Lawrence Katz of Harvard and Olivier Blanchard of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology estimate that, on average, regional differences in unemployment have been eliminated within five years. But history is modest comfort to people who have lost faith in the prevailing conservative doctrine that the best policy for industrial transition is as little policy as possible. And the widely held conviction that the Bush Administration has no ideological compass to navigate the economic fog has helped create an audience for other voices.
One of those voices belongs to Ira Magaziner, a Rhode Island business consultant who drafted the military conversion proposals in the Clinton campaign's economic program. He sees opportunity in adversity, a way to direct the peace dividend toward investment in "21st century infrastructure" -- everything from high speed trains to broad-band digital communications. He calls for investing $20 billion annually on Federally subsidized partnerships with local governments or private corporations to match redundant manufacturing facilities and military workers to specific projects.
Pragmatic economists generally shied away from such hands-on "industrial policy." Most never bought into the idea that New Deal meddling with private markets helped end the Depression. And many were shaken by the Carter Administration's abortive "synfuels" effort to subsidize alternatives to imported oil. But the sense that the old rules of thumb are no longer of much value is pushing some toward interventionism.
Robert Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, fears that the highly skilled engineers in military research will not easily find productive work in the civilian economy. And while he affirms that "the Government's primary responsibility is general prosperity," he is tempted by the idea of creating a civilian technology agency that would subsidize private ventures in critical fields.
Mr. Reischauer has a parallel "feeling that specializations are not easily transferable." The craftsmen who weld steel to the hulls of nuclear cruisers are not about to get similar jobs in a commercial shipbuilding industry that no longer exists.
It is unclear whether this stew of ideas will influence the Bush Administration. Its sole transition proposal is a few hundred million dollars a year for retraining -- a program so modest that John Tepper Marlin of the liberal Council on Economic Priorities suspects there is method to the President's muddle: "He wants the threat of job loss to keep workers and the Congress behind . . . his levels of defense spending."
Proposals to spend about $1 billion annually on a mix of retraining, community assistance and aid for defense contractors are inching their way through both the House and Senate. But even if a program does pass the legislative gantlet, Mr. Taibl sees no coherent strategy that will make a real difference in the transition.
The ironies are dispiriting. The end of the cold war is widely seen as the triumph of capitalism. But how to make use of the economic fruit of that victory, the peace dividend, has become a test of the system's vaunted resilience -- a test that many fear it may not pass.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Gauging the Pain Of Military Retrenchment" shows military spending, personal, civilian employees and industry employment from '40 to '90; States that will be hardest hit by military job cutbacks (Source: Congressional Office of Technology Assesment; Defense Department; Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (63%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



380 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/The Rev. Cecil Murray;
Walking a Narrow Line and Praying For Calm in a Riot-Torn City

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
ON the night the riots began, the Rev. Cecil Murray and his parishioners stood on the street outside the First A. M. E. Church, forming a buffer between about 150 rock-throwing residents and a line of 25 police officers.
"The mob surges, throwing, and then the police surge, and we are in the middle trying to hold both off," Mr. Murray recalled. "We say to the police: 'Please let us handle it. We can take care of them' -- Naw, get out of the way -- and then to the rioters: 'Please, brother, let us handle it.' We were looking for some degree of balance, trying to bring some order back to law and order." 
 That was the easy part. In the wounded neighborhoods of South Central Los Angeles today, four months later, church and community leaders like Mr. Murray are still shuttling back and forth between angry residents and government officials, searching for ways to heal the city and prevent further outbursts of violence.
In the confusion, Mr. Murray, already a prominent African Methodist Episcopal minister here, has emerged as a more vocal force for the black community, with access to politicians as well as to gang members, to corporate leaders with jobs to offer as well as to Hollywood celebrities. During the riots it was at his church on the northern edge of the violence that Mayor Tom Bradley prayed for calm.
Today the imposing church on a grassy rise overlooking burned-out buildings provides the community's leading pulpit and conduit for charitable aid to the riot victims. Mayor Bradley and television's Arsenio Hall are among the church's membership of more than 8,000, which includes many professionals and middle-class blacks as well as the unskilled. Its charitable programs run into millions of dollars, including a $4 million housing project for the disabled. And Mr. Murray, who took over the church in 1977, presses its members to be active in programs to feed the poor, combat drugs and counsel young people.
But even the 52-year-old minister, with his efficient staff and air of personal authority, his political lobbying and his charitable work, seems overburdened by events and doubtful about the future. If the city is looking to community leaders like him to help prevent future riots, the leaders themselves seem uncertain which way to turn.
 
Future Flash Points
 All around him, Mr. Murray said, he sees unbridgeable hopelessness born of years of anger and oppression.
"People are caught up in hysteria, in madness, in nihilism," he said in an interview at the church. "The politicians -- the hell with the politicians. The church -- the hell with the church, the synagogue, the mosque, religion. The school principal -- the hell with him. Everybody's just been reduced to the level of not caring anymore."
As he travels through South Central Los Angeles where the riots left a trail of devastation, he can see how hopelessness has paralyzed the future of the community, its young men: "All you see is them passing the bottle around like a bunch of winos, 15- , 16-year-old winos."
Church leaders seem to have been affected, too.
"There is much talk at this time. We are in a watchful mode and a mode of deliberation," Mr. Murray said about attempts to cool the city's passions. "Perhaps we should be moving faster. I think we are still in some kind of cultural shock from the last event."
Meanwhile, he said, "You feel the thermometer rising. It's like a fever. This place is like a dog that's been in a fight. The hairs on his back are still standing up."
Many South Central residents are complaining about inequities in a justice system they say treats black defendants more harshly than whites. Their anger is already rising over two legal cases whose outcomes could be the flash points for further violence. Some quiet complaints come from Mr. Murray himself.
Ignoring essential differences in the cases, many in the community find parallels between the treatment of four white officers accused in the beating of a black motorist, Rodney G. King, and of four black men accused in the beating of a white trucker, Reginald O. Denny. The beating of Mr. Denny, captured on live television only hours after the four policemen were acquitted of assault last April 29, helped intensify the violence that swept through the city, taking 51 lives, most of them black and Hispanic, and causing $850 million in damage.
In its details and legal nuances, the beating of Mr. Denny, who remains under medical care for severe head wounds, differs fundamentally from that of the four officers accused of using excessive force during an arrest. But as the officers now await a second, Federal, civil-rights trial, even Mr. Murray presents the two cases in black and white.
"It's like these four white men beat this black man, Rodney King, and they get their wrist slapped. Four black men beat this white, Reginald Denny, and they've got to hang them," he said, careful to assert in the interview that he speaks for the community, not for the city's establishment.
 
Solutions: Jobs
 "Subtleties are not for grass-roots people," he went on. "Subtleties are for Harvard and Yale attorneys and for judges sitting on benches." If he argued subtleties to his constituents, urged them simply to be cool at a time of anger and confusion, he said, he would risk being dismissed as an Uncle Tom.
As he works for calm, he said, he spends most of his time not with the area's potential rioters but with "those who caused the outburst" -- the city's political and economic leaders.
Mr. Murray walks a narrow line, and he has his critics among some of the city's angrier black people. "I feel he's a little bit out of touch," said Rodney White, the leader of a small protest labor movement in the inner city. "He's sitting up there on that hill, talking to Bradley and the elite of the black community, somewhat detached."
Mr. Murray responded angrily. "You can't ask preachers of peace to spend all their time with the victims saying, 'Be cool and accept the status quo; don't give in to your anger.' You have no respect among the people if you spend your time talking to black faces when you ought to be talking to white faces. Black people are not black people's problems. White people are black people's problems."
The long-term solutions the minister sees are no different from those of most other people here, and they are as obvious and as distant as ever: jobs, job training, economic opportunity.
Like other community leaders, he said he feared that the hurricane in Florida and Louisiana may have diverted Government aid and attention and that one lesson the riots may have taught here was: "Nobody pays any attention to you. Then you burn and they come running."
So when the verdicts are handed down in the King and Denny beating cases some months from now, he said, the First A. M. E. Church will have its crisis teams in place again, ready to try to calm the violence as it tried and failed to do last April.
"If the verdicts are good or marginal, we will be effective," Mr. Murray said. "If the verdicts are totally nonsensical, there is nothing the angels above can do to prevent what follows."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Cecil Murray outside his church in Los Angeles. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE RIOTS (94%); RELIGION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CHARITIES (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); DRUG POLICY (69%); LOBBYING (67%); RACE & RACISM (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; MURRAY, CECIL (REV) CECIL MURRAY (96%); REGINALD O DENNY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



381 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In Russia and Japan, Once Again, National Egos Block Cooperation

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
FROM the start, Japan's postwar troubles with Moscow have never really been about ideology, or even about the four frozen "Northern Islands" that the Soviets seized from Japan in a last-minute sweep through the Sea of Okhotsk as World War II was ending. The territorial dispute over who is the rightful owner of the islands, of course, has long been the ostensible cause of the frostiness between the world's proudest former superpower and the world's richest almost-superpower. But the real issue has been a century-long clash of national egos. And after decades in which that clash was subsumed by the cold war, it erupted again last week, like a stubborn virus contracted during the Russo-Japanese war and never really shaken.
Boris N. Yeltsin, who was caught between increasingly strident nationalist demands at home that he not give back an inch of Russian territory and Tokyo's unyielding refusal to make large-scale contributions to saving the moribund Russian economy unless Japan first retrieved sovereignty over the islands, did the only thing that seemed to make sense. He ducked. At the last minute, he abruptly canceled a long-anticipated trip to Japan that had been scheduled to begin today. 
 The Japanese said they were shocked -- they are not used to being treated that way by people coming for money -- and blamed the growing influence of a "national-patriotic" right on Moscow's streets. But Mr. Yeltsin identified another villain: equally nationalist Japanese, who were trying to exploit Russia's current chaos to force the return of the islands at the end of the Kurile chain.
Without question, the indefinite postponement of the trip, and the subsequent finger-pointing, dashed any hopes that two of the Pacific's greatest powers were on the cusp of ending the last standoff of World War II. Mr. Miyazawa's aides conceded that Japan's relations with Russia had probably been set back years.
But just as important, the exchanges revealed a lot about the new, more assertive Japanese diplomatic style that everyone talks about but that is rarely seen in action. In its first foray into a major foreign policy problem in which the United States was not a player, Japan reverted to a style more fitting to trade negotiations: It calculated the relative power of the two parties, and used its cash and technology as a weapon.
The tactic blew up in Tokyo's face when Mr. Yeltsin seemed to call Japan's bluff. Other Western allies, most notably Germany's Helmut Kohl, are clearly growing impatient with Japan's strategy, saying that it is threatening the collapse of democracy and market reforms in Russia in single-minded pursuit of a group of islands few Japanese could even name. "There are a lot of Liberal Democrats who share that view," said Seiichi Tagawa, an independent member of Parliament and a frequent critic of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. "But they don't voice it. There is the hint of strong nationalism in the air, and they are afraid of being called unpatriotic."
Indeed, many in Japan's ruling elite -- top bureaucrats, even many leading politicians -- say privately that they think it is unwise to link the return of the islands to turning the aid spigot on full. (Japan has offered a relatively modest $2.65 billion in support so far, mostly humanitarian aid, and has contributed to some international aid efforts.) Among those who think the islands are a foolish pursuit are many business executives, who are watching as Koreans and Taiwanese establish modest beachheads in the Russian Far East.
But the Government's position, driven both by the right wing of the Liberal Democratic Party and Japan's Foreign Ministry, is that the time has arrived to rectify a great wrong that weighs heavily on the national honor; only then can relations be normalized.
On Friday, over a lunch with foreign correspondents here, the Vice Minister of International Trade and Industry, Noboru Hatakeyama, produced a pocket datebook and recited the days that Stalin's forces invaded the four islands, which Russia had recognized as Japanese starting in 1855. His point was that the invasions occurred after Japan surrendered. "For Japan's sake these islands are not important at all," he said. "But for the sake of justice it is very important. This was an outright violation of international law."
One sure way to annoy Japanese officials is to suggest that losing the islands was a small price after waging a war of invasion, plunder and colonization from Manchuria to Indonesia. In 1945, the Russians could have grabbed all of Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost main island, or even part of the central island of Honshu, as retribution for Japan's occupation of most of the Kuriles and half of Sakhalin Island after the Russo-Japanese War. Perhaps it is not surprising that the Japanese evoke scant sympathy from their Asian neighbors when they complain that their rights were violated.
But while Russian nationalists wend through the streets of Moscow, calling on Mr. Yeltsin not to give an inch of territory, a subtler campaign is under way in Japan to remind people of how they were treated when Japan was weak after the war. The press here has been filled with stories about Russian forced-labor camps in which thousands of Japanese died. The unspoken message seemed to be that both sides know about power politics.
Such shrill exchanges can only send a chill through Northeast Asia, especially because the argument is way out of proportion to the importance of the land.
But for the Japanese, feeling more than ever that they do not have America to back them up as much in international disputes, there was a point to be made: Just because Japan has renounced the use of military force does not mean it is a diplomatic pushover.
"At some point there has to be a raison d'etre where Japan says yes or no according to its self-interest," said Yukio Okamoto, a former diplomat who advises the ruling party. "The question was whether Japan has pushed Yeltsin too far. I say we may have, but so what?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police setting up barricades near the Russian Embassy in Tokyo last week as right-wing demonstrators, in vans at rear, demanded the return of four islands in the Kurile chain that the Soviet Union captured at the end of World War II. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN FEDERATION) JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS N YELTSIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



382 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
. . . And Intellectuals Rally to the Cause

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
SOMETIME in August, the French Government of Francois Mitterrand and Pierre Beregovoy began to realize that their Sept. 20 referendum on the Maastricht Treaty was in trouble. They decided to mobilize everything necessary in support of the treaty, and the person they chose to organize that effort -- their James Baker, if you will -- was Jack Lang.
Mr. Lang is the Minister of Culture, and it has been his stewardship of French culture in all the years since 1981 that the Socialists have held power, which has been most of them, that has defined Mr. Lang's image. 
 His success in this instance can best be judged when France's vote on European unity is in. But his ability to enlist names, and the kind of names he has enlisted, is remarkable. On Aug. 31 a newspaper advertisement appeared listing 300 (301, actually) "writers, philosophers, editors, actors, stage directors, choreographers, singers, pop stars, musicians, composers, artists, stylists, creators, economic and social personalities, academicians, doctors, scientists and athletes."
These were the categories in a "National Committee for Yes." Its president is the distinguished historian and Kremlinologist Helene Carrere d'Encausse, who insisted at a news conference that "our enterprise is not political," that "Europe does not belong to any one party." But it had been Mr. Lang who had called the committee together, and its dazzling membership reflects his far-reaching influence.
The committee's directorate includes a Nobel Prize winner, a member of the French Academy, the designer Yves Saint Laurent, the author Marguerite Duras, the pop star Johnny Halliday, Gilbert Trigano of the Club Med chain and the actors Alain Delon, Catherine Deneuve and Gerard Depardieu. The rank and file is almost literally a who's who of French cultural life, and not just French: in the pan-European spirit, foreigners like Umberto Eco, Placido Domingo, Gina Lollobrigida, Peter Gabriel and Mstislav Rostropovich are on the list. And many of them are not resting content with merely affixing their names to a petition. Groups have been organized to appear on television talk shows, to write articles or be interviewed in them and to propagandize outlying towns, bearing the good news of Yes.
In the United States, politicians pay court to Hollywood to garner campaign contributions, but then, complains Hollywood's "cultural elite," they ignore the entertainers' advice. When American pop musicians and actors publicly endorse causes, they usually do so on their own, and the causes are often fuzzily idealistic.
American artists are more likely to be pilloried for controversial values than prized as defenders of Government policy. Even in those barely remembered days when the Democrats last held the White House, artists served more as ornaments than as valued members of the team. America has never had a Minister of Culture.
 
Going Back to Louis XIV
 In France, artists and intellectuals have long felt close to the sources of political power. This has something to do with French history -- a relationship between power and ideas formed as far back as the absolute monarchy of Louis XIV and his court at Versailles. It has something to do with the French educational system and the respect for ideas among French politicians -- many of whom have been intellectuals themselves -- and those who elect them. It has to do with the centralization of the country's cultural and political power in Paris, where everyone rubs shoulders with everyone else, not least at salons and at gala openings hosted by Mr. Lang designed to encourage such rubbing.
 
The Patronage Angle
 It also has something to do with patronage. Mr. Lang controls an enormous cultural bureaucracy, and his leverage on intellectual life has been increased by his recent supplemental appointment as Minister of Education. France has a population roughly one-fifth that of the United States, but the budget of its Ministry of Culture alone (not counting Education) is about nine times that of the American National Endowment for the Arts -- more than $1.5 billion versus $175 million. Nearly everyone on the National Committee for Yes receives, has received or hopes to receive support from Mr. Lang's combined purses, and cynics in the European press have been quick to point that out.
But cultural power operates more subtly in Paris than through crude promises or threats. Where everyone knows everyone else, persuasion, camaraderie and friendly flirtation all play their part in the effectuation of political purpose. Ultimately, the most striking aspect of this process for an American observer is Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Beregovoy turning to Mr. Lang in the first place -- their perceiving artists and intellectuals as their best chance of convincing a wavering electorate to support their cherished treaty.
For in France, artists and intellectuals are not perceived as kooks or weirdos or subverters of family values. They are honored citizens whom others look up to. In soliciting their support, French politicians reassert the age-old, honored place held in France for art and ideas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAASTRICHT TREATY ON EUROPEAN POLITICAL AND MONETARY UNION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TREATIES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); WRITERS (88%); MUSIC (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); SPORTS (72%); TRENDS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); HISTORY (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); CHOREOGRAPHY (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; LANG, JACK (MIN) PIERRE EUGENE BEREGOVOY (74%); FRANCOIS MAURICE MARIE MITTERRAND (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



383 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: SKIPPING AHEAD;
On the Economy, Bush Tries to Keep Focus on the Future

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
"THE ECONOMY, STUPID."
That sign on the wall of Bill Clinton's headquarters in Little Rock is a reminder to the campaign staff. Stick to the basics. Avoid diversions.
The economic slump of the last four years is George Bush's chief weakness and Mr. Clinton's greatest strength. Few people doubt that if the election turns on that issue, the Governor of Arkansas will be the next President of the United States. The most recent New York Times/CBS News Poll, in late August, found that 77 percent of registered voters disapproved of the way Mr. Bush had dealt with the economy, compared with only 17 percent who approved. 
 So everywhere he goes nowadays, Mr. Clinton fans the flames, reminding voters that economic growth under President Bush has been slower than in any other Presidential term since World War II, and that more businesses have failed and fewer jobs have been created. He talks about how incomes have dropped while unemployment has risen, how American wages are lower than those in a dozen other countries and how the gap between the rich and the poor has widened significantly.
"Labor has been devalued for a dozen years," Mr. Clinton said in Cromwell, Conn., last week in a typical stump speech. "We have stayed too long with trickle-down economics, and we have paid a terrible price for it."
For a time, the Bush camp believed that the best strategy was to change the subject, to try to get the public to focus on other issues like foreign policy and family values and crime. But when James A. Baker 3d took over the Bush campaign after the Republican National Convention last month, he decided the President had to confront the economic issue head-on. Mr. Baker just tried to make a subtle change in the lens. Instead of focusing on the state of the economy now or in the last four years, Mr. Baker would like voters to concentrate on what the economy should be in the next four years and even in the next century. He wants them to see Mr. Bush as reliable and trustworthy, Mr. Clinton as rash and irresponsible.
That was what the President's speech on Thursday to the Detroit Economic Club was about. He broke little new substantive ground. But for the first time in his Presidency -- more than three and a half years after he took office, 26 months after the recession began and just 53 days before the election -- Mr. Bush cast his views on the economy in terms of themes and principles, hopes and dreams, instead of random legislative proposals.
First he talked about why the economy had gone sour. It was caused, he said, by "profound changes now at work in our economy," listing items like layoffs in the defense industry, the staggering debts accumulated by companies and households in the 1980's and the shaky banking system.
Then he talked about his desire "to keep tax rates low and make them lower, to keep money sound, to limit government spending and regulations and to open the way for greater competition and freer trade."
And he spoke of "the mirage that my opponent offers of a government that accumulates capital by taxing it and borrowing it from the people and then redistributing it according to some industrial policy."
Only time will tell whether Mr. Bush can succeed in getting voters to compare the candidates' economic visions rather than to think just about his economic record. Over the years, incumbent Presidents have generally been judged on their records. In the last half century, the only Presidential election years when the economy was as bad as it is now were 1960 and 1980, and both times the incumbent party was voted out of office.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton have hedged on what is perhaps the central economic question facing the next President: how to reduce the enormous budget deficit. That would almost certainly require raising most people's taxes or cutting popular government programs, stands no candidate wants to take.
But if voters do look at the future, the choices will be clear. The two candidates this year have strikingly different views of how the economy should be handled in the years ahead.
Mr. Bush wants the Government basically to leave the free market alone. Mr. Clinton believes the Government should take an active role in directing the nation's economy.
Mr. Bush believes wealthy Americans are taxed too much. Mr. Clinton would raise their taxes.
Mr. Bush would cut social programs and public works to the bone. Mr. Clinton would expand Government spending in many areas and would invest in capital projects like roads and bridges, transportation systems and communications networks.
Mr. Bush would loosen and abolish Government rules and restraints on businesses. Mr. Clinton wants new regulations on business to protect the environment and to force energy conservation.
Mr. Bush's ideas about medical care and job training are based on tax incentives. Mr. Clinton would require employers to provide medical insurance and training to their employees or pay money to the Government to do the job for them.
Mr. Bush favors free trade at almost all costs. Mr. Clinton is increasingly taking the view that the United States should be tougher on its trading partners.
Rightly or wrongly, the Bush camp believes that if voters examine those differences, they will come down on the President's side. "We're trying to focus on some of the key differences that separate us from Bill Clinton," a senior Administration official said in Detroit just before Mr. Bush's speech Thursday. "Goals are important in terms of giving a country a sense of direction."
It is in this context that the Bush camp keeps raising anew the question of Mr. Clinton's draft record. It is not so much that Mr. Clinton did not fight in Vietnam. Neither did Vice President Dan Quayle, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, Senator Phil Gramm and countless others of the Bush stripe who are near Mr. Clinton's age. Rather, the Bush team seeks to exploit Mr. Clinton's shifting explanations of what he did to avoid the draft. They are trying to plant the seed that he cannot be trusted, on this, on the economy or on anything else.
At the behest of the Bush campaign, Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, put a long document in the Congressional Record last week listing Mr. Clinton's various statements on the draft issue. "The campaign," Mr. Dole told the Senate, "boils down to a few critical words: trust, confidence and credibility -- which candidate can you trust, which candidate will earn your confidence and which candidate has the kind of credibility to be President of the United States?"
 
Why Now, at Long Last?
 But Mr. Bush is caught in something of a box. Like it or not, he has been President for the last four years. And every time he says what he wants to do in his next term, it raises the question: Why is he just now getting around to doing something?
If he really believes in trimming back government, why has Federal spending risen in the last four years, from 22 percent to 24 percent of economic output?
If he so despises Government regulations, why did he promote laws like the Clean Air Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act, both of which place large burdens on businesses?
And most of all, if he favors cutting taxes, why did he break his no-new-taxes pledge and sign a $137 billion tax increase two years ago, one of the largest tax increases in history?
The tax question has bedeviled him more than the others. Campaigning in New Jersey on Wednesday, Mr. Bush declared, "I went along with one Democratic tax increase, and I'm not going to do it again -- ever, ever!"
The next day, the President's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, took it back. "We're not going to make pledges beyond our pledge to cut taxes across the board," Mr. Fitzwater said.
And which particular taxes might be cut? The White House would not say, further raising the stakes about credibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; CORPORATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); WORLD WAR II (53%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



384 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-23
 
TO FRANCE, EUROPE COMES 2d 
In French towns like Mantes-la-Jolie, where unemployment is high, many laugh at posters proclaiming that a vote for a treaty on European unity will insure prosperity. 18
 
A Bohemian town fears a future managed by U.S. capitalists. 19
 
BETTING ON THE THAI MILITARY
Vote buying in rural areas by pro-military parties has become the nightmare of Thailand's resurgent democracy movement. 7
 
ROUTINE FAVOR IN JAPAN?
Despite the scandal over its payments to politicians, a company is viewed as having done what it needed to do to survive in Japan. 18
 
NEW STALKER IN SOMALIA
Disease has joined starvation as the killer in Baidoa, one of the centers of the relief effort in Somalia. Some people are so sick that even the arriving food can no longer help them. 20
 
United Nations officials say they will increase relief aid to Somalia. 20
 
SHIFTING WINDS IN KURDISH REGION
In a situation reminiscent of earlier days, one set of Kurds has turned against another as Iraq and Turkey, the powers that control their destiny, fight among themselves. 22
 
Saddam Hussein may be setting up an alternative command post. 23
 
U.N. GETS A GRIP IN SARAJEVO
Serbian artillery positions were put under United Nations supervision on schedule in Sarajevo, but heavy shelling was reported in other areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 17
 
The Chinese Government allows itself to be sued by dissidents. 9
 
Fischer defeats Spassky in Game 7 of chess match. 59
 
National 26-42
 
NEW MOVE ON LEAD POISONING
A new Government directive requires that virtually all young children on Medicaid be screened for lead poisoning but allows states to continue using a test known to be inaccurate. 1
 
STORM BATTERS HAWAIIAN ISLAND
Hurricane Iniki pounded Kauai, flattening buildings, cutting off electricity and severing virtually all communications with the outside world. 1
 
At an Everglades migrant camp, Andrew's wrath remains. 26
 
A MAN FOR ALL ADVISERS
Advisers who run a broad gamut of outlooks apparently find in Governor Clinton evidence that, in his secret heart, he is one of them, no matter who the "them" happens to be. 1
 
Clinton and the C.I.A. chief recently sized each other up. 38
 
Perot may yet pose threat to Bush in Texas. 38
 
The Republican fund-raising drive is slumping. 38
 
NO BIG DEAL
Many poverty experts say that life in the inner city is now so desperate that the threat of imprisonment has lost much of its power to scare young men contemplating crimes. 1
 
Endeavour began the 50th flight of the space-shuttle program. 42
 
Justice Thomas gave his first public speech since his confirmation. 26
 
A hiker found dead at a remote Alaskan camp left a haunting diary. 31
 
Metropolitan 49-64

SLINGING MUD IN SENATE RACE
Since they were first broadcast a month ago, negative television commercials have dominated New York's Democratic Primary campaign for Senate. 1
 
WHAT'D HE SAY? WHICH TRAIN?
Incomprehensible subway announcements could go the way of the $1.15 token when the MTA spends $75 million on new equipment. 49
 
THE INSIDERS SCRAMBLE
In a sign of the volatility of the electorate just days before the New York primary, voters railed against all incumbent officeholders, but then admitted that they knew little of the challengers. 49
 
QUIET DOWN, CLASS
Mrs. Cullen told that to her students 77 times on the first day of school, proving that the start of a new year can be trying for teachers, too. 49
 
Obituaries 61-62
Anthony Perkins, actor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOMALIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOMALIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (76%); MEDICAID (75%); POLITICS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); STARVATION (74%); POISONINGS (74%); LEAD POISONING (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); SCANDALS (70%); LEAD (69%); HIKING (62%); WAR & CONFLICT (52%); SPACE SHUTTLE (50%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



385 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2760 words

HEADLINE: Prison as Usual/A special report.;
More Familiar, Life in a Cell Seems Less Terrible

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 12

 BODY:
The day Theodore Russell got out of jail after a long stay, a group of neighborhood boys, including his little brother, surrounded him as if he were a rap star passing out concert tickets.
They followed him down the street of his struggling neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago, admiring his crudely drawn cellblock tattoos and marveling at the new muscles he had developed from hours of lifting weights in the yard. Then they sat on the steps of his mother's porch, looking up at the man they call Dirty Red, and fired questions at him about life in the world behind the bars, the same questions that he asked when he was their age. 
 "Some young brothers seem like they don't care if they go to prison," said Mr. Russell, who is 25 years old and facing three years in prison for a new drug-possession charge. "They think it's macho, that it gives them more rank out on the street."
It had been the same for him, he recalled. "I wasn't too worried about going because my uncle came back all built up," Mr. Russell said. "I kind of wanted the experience. He told me it was smooth in there, that doing time was a piece of cake."
Time in prison isn't smooth, as Mr. Russell would now be the first to agree. But he, other inmates, and many experts on poverty in America say that everyday life in the nation's inner cities has grown so desperate and dreary that the threat of incarceration, by comparison, has lost much of its power to scare. In fact, to many impressionable young people, a certain glamour seems to surround the penitentiary.
"The mean-spirited system of justice we have in this country has perpetuated the problem," said Nicholas Pastore, the police chief in New Haven. "We warehouse people, but we don't make persons of the people. We don't really care."
As the nation's prison population swelled by nearly 130 percent during the tough-on-crime 1980's, more and more families watched as a father, a son, an uncle -- maybe all three -- were carted off to an institution. In the inner cities, bereft of jobs, good schools and hope, the idea of prison doesn't carry the shame it once did.
"Years ago, the story that someone had gone to prison was almost big news," said Barry Krisberg, executive director of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency in San Francisco. "Now it's ordinary. Some young men have said to me, going to prison in their community is like going to the Army was for my generation. You spend a couple of years in the Army, we spend a couple of years in prison."
On the roughest streets, a person can even help protect himself by letting it be known that he has relatives or friends in jail. On Chicago's South Side the other day, a 12-year-old girl who wants to become a lawyer said some friends in her housing project brag about having a relative in jail, whether they really do or not.
"People always say their brother or cousin is in jail," she explained, "and you better not mess with them because when they get out they'll have big muscles and beat you up."
 
Prison Fodder
One Million, Mostly Poor
 If many people in the inner cities have grown used to the idea of jail and prison as a common part of life, or more often as a typical part of being poor in America, sheer numbers help explain why. To begin with, the United States has more than one million people under lock and key, either in prison or in jail awaiting trial or serving short sentences. It has the highest rate of incarceration of any industrialized nation. In second place is South Africa.
Although the vast majority of poor people are law-abiding, the majority of inmates are poor in pocket and education, whether they are black, white or Hispanic. In a 1986 survey of state prison inmates, the Justice Department found that 61.6 percent had not completed high school and that 60 percent had incomes of $10,000 or less.
"At one point when you dropped out of school, you could drop into the factory," Mr. Krisberg said. "But those jobs are gone, particularly in urban areas. Now when you drop out, you drop into crime or the street corner."
The unemployment rate for blacks was 14.3 percent in August compared with an overall rate of 7.6 percent. The rate for whites was 6.6 percent. For young people, the picture is bleaker still. The rate for black teen-agers in August was 36.9 percent, compared with 16.9 percent for white teen-agers.
 
No Money for Bail
 Middle class parents can bail out their offspring and pay for private lawyers. But in the inner city where, in the words of the educator and writer Jonathan Kozol, the inequalities are savage and many, the poor often stay in jail until trial.
"This community, it grooms you to prepare yourself to go to jail or the penitentiary," said Hahmed Staford, 24-year-old resident of the Robert Taylor public housing development in Chicago who has been in jail several times.
"A lot of people lose hope," he said. "Every day is a struggle. It seems like going to prison is destiny for a lot of young brothers. But we know what time it is. White folks be committing crimes, too. But they get probation, we go to jail."
A 1990 study by the Sentencing Project, a Washington-based group that promotes sentencing reforms and alternatives, said that nationwide on any given day almost one in four black men from the ages of 20 to 29 is in prison or jail or on parole or probation.
The figure for white non-Hispanic men of the same age was 1 in 16, or 6.2 percent. The rate for Hispanic men was 10.4 percent, or 1 in 10.
"By all indications the figures would be higher today were we to do the study again," said Marc Mauer, assistant director of the group. "It's gotten worse, but it's still probably in the rough range of 1 in 4. Too many inner- city kids have been made to feel that they don't have a stake in society or have much to lose by going to jail."
A recent study by the National Center on Institutions and Alternatives said that on any given day in Baltimore, 56 percent of the city's black men aged 18 to 35 were either under the control of the criminal justice system or being sought on warrants.
In 1981, just as the term "war on drugs" was coming into vogue, a total of 15 white juveniles were arrested for sale of drugs in Baltimore, compared with 86 black juveniles, the report said. In 1991, 13 white juveniles were arrested in Baltimore for selling drugs -- as were 1,304 black juveniles.
"The so-called 'war on drugs' has exposed the racism that has always driven the criminal justice system in this country," said Jerome C. Miller, president of the center. "We've so overused incarceration, that we've succeeded in socializing a whole generation to going to jail."
 
On Probation
 Nationwide, 65 percent of probationers are white, according to "Americans Behind Bars," a 1992 report by the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation of New York City, which promotes prison reform. Whites make up 49 percent percent of the people in Federal and state prisons.
The report said that studies by the F.B.I. and the National Institute on Drug Abuse have found that blacks make up only about 12 percent of the nation's drug users, roughly the proportion of blacks among all Americans. "The war on drugs, however, has focused largely on poor, urban, mostly minority neighborhoods; street sellers of crack are easier to arrest than suburban cocaine users."
According to figures compiled by the Justice Department, more than half of all juvenile delinquents imprisoned in state institutions and more than a third of adult criminals in local jails and state prisons have close relatives who have been incarcerated.
 
'Simple Survival'
Dreary Lives Behind Numbers
 The young men of Chicago's South Side, of the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, of Shaw in the District of Columbia, are not familiar with the studies. But they are familiar, firsthand, with the conclusions.
"When I talk to them about the consequences of their actions, I can't scare the kids with prison anymore," said Arvis Arvette, the manager of a Chicago public housing development. "They're worried about simple survival, about living to be 18."
Or even 14. A few weeks ago, a 13-year-old boy was shot and killed a half block away from Mr. Arvette's office. The boy was slain when he was mistaken for a rival gang member.
"The jail cell is better than the grave," one of the boy's friends said in an interview.
 
What Jackson Said
 The Rev. Jesse Jackson struck a responsive chord in July when he told the Democratic National Convention that prison seemed like a step up for some people. "Once they are jailed, they are no longer homeless," he said. "Once they are jailed, they have balanced meals."
This is not to say it doesn't matter to young men whether they are caught and punished, only that what many see in their everyday lives is not that much worse by comparison.
"I know it is something people desperately try to avoid," said Thomas R. Fitzgerald, the presiding judge of the Circuit Court of County, Criminal Division in Chicago. "All the other talk is nothing more than bravado."
Terry Williams, an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York, has been studying drugs, crime and troubled youth for years. His most recent book, "Crack House" (Addison-Wesley, 1992) is a chilling journey into the depths of the drug culture.
Mr. Williams said that whenever the subject of jail or prison comes up on the street, the "kids are frightened to death of going, of getting gang-raped."
"I don't see kids glorifying being in prison," he said. "But if going is becoming a rite of passage, it's a rite of passage by default. If there were jobs and job training available, most of these kids who are selling drugs would quit in a second and go to work."
George Miller, 22 and from the South Side of Chicago, is facing five years in prison for a charge of selling drugs. "I might have to go to prison, and it don't make me feel good," he said. "How's it going to correct me? All it can do is confine me."
But he certainly doesn't feel like the family outcast. "All you hear around my house," he said, "is somebody is going to jail and somebody is coming home. 'Steve is going. Ed's out. Ed's going back. Karen violated probation. Kisha got out. Mike got out, too. Mike just shot somebody yesterday. The police looking for him and he ain't been out a week.'
"It happens every day," he said. "Just the names are different."
 
Growing Up
In the Footsteps Of Parents
 Salvador A. Godinez is the warden at Stateville, a maximum-security prison in Illinois. "At Stateville there are no mistakes," he said. "They all belong in prison."
Many of the inmates now confined behind its high walls were part of Mr. Godinez's caseload when he was a youth counselor.
"Jail or prison for a lot of these guys is nothing more than an occupational hazard," Mr. Godinez said. "They see freedom as a temporary phenomenon. They all brand themselves 'survivors.' That's part of the macho."
This macho code is passed from generation to generation. Walking through the visiting room at Stateville, he has seen mothers carrying infants wrapped in blankets in gang colors. "You can almost say to yourself, 'We'll be seeing that child in 18 years.' "
 
'Waiting Room to Hell'
 The Rev. Harold E. Bailey rocked back and forth on his heels and stared into the faces of 20 young men, all ordered by the court to be there: a classroom at Probation Challenge, a program that includes people on parole, probation and house arrest. Mr. Bailey founded the program and has talked to hundreds of such classes.
"Prison is the waiting room to hell," he told the crowd. "In prison you trade your body for a pack of cigarettes or a candy bar. Tell me, young brothers, what is so compelling about prison that so many people seem in such a hurry to get there?"
"Money," someone said and a dozen heads nodded in agreement.
"Respect."
Mr. Bailey shook his head. "There's a madness going on," he said. "Going to prison almost seems like a fad. The No. 1 industry in America is prison and, brothers, you are the No. 1 commodity. Young folks, you all better wake up. Without you, there is no system."
A man in front raised his hand. "Reverend Bailey, can I be excused?" he asked. "I have to catch a bus."
 
Expanding Since 1929
 The Cook County Jail is the largest single-site detention complex in the country, housing about 9,000 inmates on a typical day. Built in 1929, it has been expanding ever since.
It has been under Federal court orders for years to reduce overcrowding. Last year, about 77,000 men and women spent time there. Ben Greer 3d is the director of PACE, a privately run education program at the jail. He said the inmates are predominantly poor.
"For the most part," he said, "they go out of here with the same skills they came in with: zero. That's why there's a revolving door."
About 600 inmates a year are enrolled in the program, the overwhelming majority of them black or nonwhite Hispanic. In life behind bars, Mr. Greer said, "the white guy is the minority."
Yet he has much in common. "He usually comes from a poor background," Mr. Greer said. "Because he's poor, he knows how to cope. He has the same basic background as everyone else in here."
Timothy A. Ninko, a 22-year-old son of the white working class, has been in and out of jail and prison since he was 17 years old. Growing up, he watched his uncle shuttle back and forth from prison for robbery, he said.
"I never felt scared about going to jail," Mr. Ninko said. "When I first found out I was going to prison, I laughed. Ain't nobody going to say they're scared in front of their friends."
 
Going Away
The Free World Flashes By
 The night before John Rivers went to prison for the first time, his mother packed his suitcase, a sight that made him want to cry.
Mr. Rivers, who is black, was 19 and scared. But at that moment he felt worse for his mother. "Mama," he recalled telling her as she put his socks and underwear into the bag, "I'm going to the penitentiary. All they want is me. They'll give me clothes."
The next time Mr. Rivers was sent away, he was nearly 30, wise to the ways behind the walls. "My mother didn't pack a suitcase for me that time," he said recently, a few months after his release. "She knew the routine."
Early every Friday morning, 200 to 300 handcuffed inmates are taken by bus from the Cook County Jail to a prison in Joliet, about an hour's drive south of Chicago. On an average Friday, 265 inmates are transported. But during the summer, when judges are on vacation and fewer people are sentenced, the buses are often less full.
On a recent rain-soaked Friday, 196 inmates sat in crowded holding cells as a burly sheriff's lieutenant stood in the doorway, shouting last-minute instructions about the trip that the deputies call "the shipment." Just before boarding the buses, each inmate was handcuffed to a fellow inmate. The most dangerous inmates, some with life sentences, were handcuffed and ankle-shackled. "These are the 'I ain't got nothing to lose dudes,' " a guard said. On this day there were 11 of them.
Then, as deputies carrying shotguns stood ready, the inmates were loaded onto five white buses whose windows were covered with steel mesh. After the most dangerous 11 were on board, Capt. John Maul said he had been worried when he noticed their feet.
"They had their shoes tied," he said, adding that normally inmates wear shower slippers or loosely tied gym shoes. "When they're getting ready to fight, they tie their shoes. There's been some tension between the gangs."
At the beginning of the trip, the inmates laughed and listened to music from overhead speakers. But as the convoy neared the prison, the inmates talked less and looked out the windows.
The buses rolled past a country club and a new middle-class housing development. Mario Gray, 21, watched the free world zip by and said something obscene about the prospect of prison.
"But I ain't scared," he said, adding that this would be his first time as a prison inmate. "I got too much family down there to be scared. My brothers are there."
As the buses sped down the highway, Keith Clark, 29, said he had been sent to prison three times before. This time he was going for drug possession.
"Instead of building prisons, they should be building factories," he said, holding up his wristwatch with "Made in China" printed on the back. "Let's build a watch factory. Give the people some jobs. Give them some way out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Although the majority of poor people are law-abiding, the majority of inmates are poor in pocket and education. Here prisoners are taken by bus from Cook County Jail in Chicago to the Joliet, Ill., state prison. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. 1); High-risk prisoners in a holding cell at Cook County Jail awaiting transport to Joliet State Prison outside Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CITY LIFE (86%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); WEIGHTLIFTING (71%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON THEODORE RUSSELL (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



386 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ORDERS TESTING OF POOR CHILDREN FOR LEAD POISONING

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Responding to new medical concerns about the harmful effects of exposure to even low levels of lead, the Federal Government is requiring that virtually all young children on Medicaid be screened for lead poisoning. But the Federal directive allows states to continue using a test known to be inaccurate in measuring small amounts of lead in the blood.
The new policy, in instructions to state Medicaid officials that take effect later this month, is intended to prod states to be more aggressive in testing children for lead poisoning. The policy reflects the conclusion of Federal health officials that levels of lead once thought to be safe can cause mental retardation, learning disabilities, stunted growth, hearing loss and behavior problems in children. 
 "All children ages 6 months to 72 months are considered at risk and must be screened for lead poisoning," say the instructions from the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, which supervises the Medicaid program for low-income families. "Complete lead screening consists of both a verbal risk assessment and blood tests."
 
Millions at Risk
 Lead poisoning is one of the most common child health problems in the United States. The Government says it afflicts three million to four million young children -- one in six youngsters under 6 years old. The highest risk occurs among low-income children, the very ones entitled to screening under Medicaid. Many of them live in old, dilapidated inner-city housing with peeling lead-based paint. But the Government emphasizes that "no socio-economic group, geographic area or racial or ethnic population" is exempt from the risk of lead poisoning.
The new directive will affect hundreds of thousands and eventually millions of children. More than six million children under 6 are on Medicaid. Experts say that fewer than half have been screened for lead poisoning.
More extensive testing will presumably find more children who need treatment. But neither Federal nor state officials could estimate the cost.
 
Testing Rare in Some States
 Medicaid is jointly financed by the Federal Government and the states. If Medicaid recipients suffer lead poisoning, Medicaid usually pays for treatment and may pay for efforts to identify the source. Private insurance also pays for some lead screening. But Medicaid and private insurance usually do not pay for removing paint, dust and other sources of lead, and it is often unclear who is responsible for cleaning up contaminated sites.
Until now, criteria for screening, like many details of the Medicaid program, varied from state to state. A recent report by the United States Public Health Service said, "Many states do not conduct much screening."
In October 1991, the Public Health Service said there was "overwhelming and compelling" evidence that children had been harmed by lead in concentrations as low as 10 micrograms per deciliter of blood. The test widely used for the last 15 years is not sensitive enough to detect levels that low.
"The more that is learned about lead's effects on children and fetuses, the lower the blood lead level at which adverse effects can be documented," the Public Health Service said. It noted that lead does not break down but builds up over months and years in human blood, bones and organs.
The new rules acknowledge that "it will take some time for states to make a transition" to a more accurate, more expensive test for lead poisoning, known as a blood lead test. This is clearly "the screening test of choice," the Government said.
But "states continue to have the option" of using the cheaper, less accurate test, which is "not sensitive for blood lead levels below 25 micrograms per deciliter," the Government said. Lead levels in the range of 10 to 15 micrograms are cause for concern because they can harm a child's health, Federal scientists say.
 
Criticism From Pediatricians
 Dr. J. Routt Reigart of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Dr. Janet A. Phoenix of the Alliance to End Childhood Lead Poisoning and Sara Rosenbaum, an expert on child health at the George Washington University Center for Health Policy Research, all said the Government should require use of the more accurate blood lead test.
"By not insisting on the more accurate test, the Government is, in effect, sanctioning a lower standard of medical practice and telling states they don't have to pay for a more rigorous standard," Ms. Rosenbaum said.
But Federal officials said they wanted to give state officials some flexibility. They noted that the more accurate test costs more: $15 to $60, depending on how and where the test is performed, as against $1 to $5 for the less accurate test. They also said that some states do not have the laboratory capacity, equipment, chemists and other personnel needed to do the more accurate test on large numbers of children.
Federal health officials said they hoped manufacturers would develop less expensive tests for lead poisoning. The technique widely used for the last 15 years, known as an erythrocyte protoporphyrin test, does not directly measure lead in the blood; rather, it measures certain biochemical effects of exposure to lead. It "misses more than half of the kids who are poisoned," Dr. Phoenix said.
 
Fraction of Children Tested
 Dr. Reigart, who is chairman of the pediatric academy's committee on environmental health, said: "There is a need for more screening. Medicaid should mandate use of the blood lead test because we are concerned about lead at low levels where the E.P. test is just not appropriate."
The extent of testing for lead poisoning varies widely from state to state. In Mississippi, Denise B. Tyrone, a spokeswoman for the state Medicaid program, said that only 467 Medicaid recipients under 6 were checked for lead poisoning last year, even though more than 63,000 were screened for other health problems. In North Carolina, state officials said that fewer than half of the 149,000 Medicaid recipients under 6 had been screened for lead.
In New Jersey, 43,095 of the 146,760 Medicaid recipients under 6 were screened for lead poisoning last year. In New York, there are 580,000 children under 6 on Medicaid; 340,000 got a standard battery of medical tests last year, and state officials say most of them were tested for lead. Connecticut could not supply comparable data.
Carolyn Goforth, chief of prevention services for Medicaid in North Carolina, said: "We are well aware of the new Federal standards, but we cannot achieve them overnight. We have to build our laboratory capacity -- equipment and personnel -- to do the additional screening and follow-up." The state recently bought an $80,000 spectrometer to test blood for lead.
There are many sources of lead in the environment. In New York last month, Brooklyn residents expressed alarm about lead found in paint chips and other debris produced by workmen sandblasting the Williamsburg Bridge. Renovation of older houses can create similar risks.
Accordingly, Federal officials say older homes should be tested for lead-based paint before they undergo any renovation that might generate dust.
The Government and the American Academy of Pediatrics have long encouraged tests for lead poisoning, but many doctors do not order them as part of routine pediatric care. Federal and state officials say they will prod doctors to insist on more screening.
Lead poisoning can often be treated successfully if it is detected early. In serious cases, doctors prescribe drugs that increase excretion of lead from the body through a procedure known as chelation therapy. Still, some of the neurological damage may be irreversible, doctors say.
"That's why it's important to use a highly sensitive test and do it promptly," Ms. Rosenbaum said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lead Poisoning: Assessing the Risk" lists questions doctors should ask to assess the risk of lead poisoning in children 6 months to 6 years old (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID&PRIVATE (94%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LEAD; TESTS AND TESTING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MEDICAID; POISONING AND POISONS; STATES (US) LEAD (95%); LEAD POISONING (95%); POISONINGS (94%); MEDICAID (92%); CHILDREN (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LEAD PAINT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (75%); MENTAL RETARDATION (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); DEAFNESS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (62%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (55%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



387 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In French Town, Unity Is Secondary

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANTES-LA-JOLIE, France, Sept. 11

 BODY:
While colorful campaign posters urging yes or no to a treaty on European union have cheered up the drab streets of Mantes-la-Jolie in advance of the referendum next Sunday, the issues that really interest the population -- unemployment, immigration, insecurity -- have not changed.
The reasons are apparent. Youth unemployment now stands at 40 percent, 35 percent of the town's 45,000 inhabitants are immigrants and crime is rampant. This helps to explain why the extreme rightist National Front won 34.9 percent of votes here in regional elections last March. 
 "The weight of these problems means it is hard to interest people in Europe," said Paul Picard, a Socialist who is the town's Mayor. "They want to talk about local problems. It's difficult for them to think 10 years ahead. They think of today and tomorrow."
A European Community flag in the corner of his office confirmed the Mayor's own European credentials, but he says he suspects he is in a minority. "One way people have of telling politicians to pay attention to their local problems is to vote against the treaty," Mr. Picard said.
 
Too Close to Call
 With no poll results permitted in the week before the referendum, the last campaign poll released today gave a narrow advantage of 53 percent to 47 percent to supporters of the treaty among decided voters. But even the Government, which is hoping that voters support the treaty, concedes that the outcome is too close to call.
What is already clear, though, is that many voter intentions are being shaped by reasons that have little to do with whether the treaty -- and its plans to give the 12 nations of the European Community a single currency and a common foreign and security policy -- are good or bad for France as a whole.
Rather, many ordinary French are viewing both the treaty and Europe through the far narrower prism of their own hopes and fears. And for them, conceptual debates about sovereignty and monetary union often seem irrelevant compared to whether or not they believe their lives will get better.
In the countryside around Mantes-la-Jolie, a town 40 miles west of Paris, hundreds of handwritten roadside signs confirm the pessimism of French farmers, who are angry over European Community plans to reduce agricultural subsidies. The European union treaty in fact makes no mention of farming, but their no vote is a certainty.
 
Protests Throughout France
 "No to Maastricht," some signs read, referring to the Dutch city where the treaty was signed last December. Others echo fears of foreign competition: "Japanese cars, Taiwanese electronics, American wheat, French unemployment." And similar protests can now be found throughout France.
In Mantes-la-Jolie, where three people died in clashes between police and children of Arab immigrants last year, confidence in the future is equally hard to find, not only because of racial tensions, but also because unemployment is still rising.
"The local Renault and Peugeot car factories that used to employ 30,000 people each now only have jobs for 8,000 or 9,000," said Jean-Pierre, the manager of a local cars parts who declined to give his full name. "Is this going to change with Europe? Things will get worse, I'm sure."
Certainly, with the French economy sliding into recession and many businessmen blaming high German interest rates for the high price of borrowing money, few people here expect ratification of the European union treaty to bring a surge of new investment and fresh job opportunities. Nationwide, unemployment is 10 percent.
 
'Too Fast and Too Soon'
 Didier Simond, the president of the region's Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said a poll of his members showed that they were evenly split on the treaty, but his own view was that France was not ready for it. "It is too fast and too soon," Mr. Simond said of the European Community's new blueprint.
His particular concern, though not an issue in the referendum, relates to plans to eliminate France's borders with its community neighbors when a single regional market goes into effect next January. "In a town like Mantes-la-Jolie, which is a victim of immigration, it's worrying to have no police controls at borders," he said.
Fear of new immigration, not only from North Africa but also from Eastern Europe, is expected to result in many no votes in other towns and cities that account for many of France's 3 million immigrants in a population of 55 million. Yet probably no town in France has a concentration of immigrants comparable to the neighborhood of Val-Fourre here.
Less than two miles from the town center, 20,000 people of immigrant origin -- some born in France, others now French citizens -- live in crowded public housing. And because most youths leave school at 16 with no hope of finding work, drug peddling and petty crime often spills out of the area.
 
A 'This Europe Is for the Rich'
 Among its residents who can vote next Sunday, however, yes posters proclaiming that "Europe is Prosperity" bring cynical laughs. "The referendum is not interesting for us," Mounir Nait, who runs a youth recreation center, said. "This Europe is for the rich. I'm interested in what is happening to me. And nothing will change."
Karim, who refused to disclose his surname, is a rare son of Algerian parents who acquired a good enough education to find work as an accountant. But he too sees nothing for Val-Fourre in the European treaty. "Anyway, I refuse to vote for a state like France," he said. "It has no interest in us."
In contrast, Georges Kerouane, an Algerian-born French citizen who runs the local chapter of France-Plus, an organization that helps immigrants, said he would vote yes because of a plan to create a European citizenship. "We may not be accepted as French in France, but we will be outside France," he said.
Oddly, here as elsewhere in France, the same reasons are often to given to justify both yes and no positions -- the treaty will and will not help economic growth, it will and will not bring greater security, it will and will not enable Europe to face American and Japanese competition, and so on.
 
Charlemagne vs. Prussia
 Mr. Picard, the 48-year-old Mayor of Mantes-la-Jolie, even mentioned immigration as a reason for backing the treaty, arguing that only a united Europe could help develop North Africa. "Until people can live well in their own countries, we'll never stop them from coming here," he explained.
Sometimes, though, people give unorthodox reasons for their votes. Hunters, for example, fear that the European Community will curb their activities. Customs officers fear that they will lose their jobs. Students see a better chance of studying abroad.
Chatting on a sidewalk here, a local doctor and a local notary, who both refused to give their names, explained their different votes. "Yes, because it's the only way to stop re-creation of the old Prussian empire," the notary said. "No," the doctor retorted, "because I will only accept a united Europe like that of Charlemagne -- one ruled by France."

GRAPHIC: Map of France, indicating Mantes-la-Jolie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PICARDIE, FRANCE (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE; MANTES-LA-JOLIE (FRANCE) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); PICARDIE, FRANCE (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: TREATIES; MAASTRICHT TREATY ON EUROPEAN POLITICAL AND MONETARY UNION; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); AGRICULTURE (64%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); CURRENCIES (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: ;RIDING, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



388 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Riling Its Gulf Neighbors, Pressing Claim to 3 Disputed Isles

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAMA, Bahrain, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Iran, which is emerging as the region's dominant power after the defeat of Iraq in the Persian Gulf war, has heightened a confrontation with Arab neighbors over three disputed islands in the gulf.
Iran on Friday denounced a statement by eight Arab countries, including its ally Syria, that criticized Teheran's attempts to annex the islands, which are jointly controlled by Iran and the United Arab Emirates. 
 Teheran's stance is part of a growing Iranian assertiveness throughout the region, Arab leaders contended.
"Since the end of the war, we have seen an increase in Iranian activity in the region," said an Arab diplomat who insisted on anonymity. "The Iranians are the principal backers of the Islamic Government in the Sudan and the Islamic opposition groups in North Africa. They are building bridges with Muslim groups in the republics of the former Soviet Union. They want us to remember that it is not just the United States that will be a player here in the years to come."
 
Little Economic Value
 United States military officials said Iran might be trying to take control of the islands, strategically located at the entrance to the gulf, to counter military cooperation between the United States and gulf nations. They also speculated that the annexation might be part of plans for expanding Iran's navy.
The islands, which lie in the middle of vital shipping lanes, have little economic value, although Iran and the United Arab Emirates share the profits from a small offshore oil rig.
Arab diplomats said they could not allow Iran to occupy the islands. "We must be firm about respecting the boundaries that are in place to avoid further confrontations," an Arab official said. "These boundary disputes can lead to a series of regional wars."
The islands -- Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb -- have been ruled for two decades by Iran and Sharja, one of seven sheikdoms that joined to form the United Arab Emirates. A 1971 agreement allowed an Iranian garrison to be stationed on Abu Musa. Until April the citizens of the two nations had an uneasy coexistence, although Iran never acknowledged the sovereignty of the Emirates.
But this spring the Iran, citing security reasons, began to expel certain United Arab Emirates citizens and now let only expatriates with Iranian permits remain. In August, the Iranians refused to allow a United Arab Emirates ship with about 100 foreign workers to dock on the island because they workers were not carrying Iranian identity cards.
The Gulf Cooperation Council, meeting in Saudi Arabia this week, denounced the actions as threats to regional peace and "a blatant violation of the good-neighborly relations and spirit of understanding and cooperation."

GRAPHIC: Map of Persian Gulf, indicating disputed islands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); IRAN (94%); GULF STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ARAB SHIPPING CO (UASC) (84%); UNITED ARAB MATCH & CHIPBOARD CO (84%); UNITED ARAB INDUSTRIAL CO (84%); UNITED ARAB MOTORS CO LTD (84%); UNITED ARAB INVESTORS CO (84%); UNITED ARAB SHIPPING AGENCIES CO (84%); UNITED ARAB BANK (84%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAN; SYRIA; UNITED ARAB EMIRATES IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); IRAN (94%); GULF STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (77%); RELIGION (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (65%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS ABU MUSA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



389 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

 BODY:

GOV. BILL CLINTON
In a speech to the Black Family Reunion celebration at the Washington Monument yesterday. 
 " You look at the statistics for the black families and for the rest of the families in America. Where there is a good job, the families are more likely to stay together, to be stable, to raise their children successfully and to have a good future. Where there is decent health care, the families are more likely to have healthy children who do better in school. Where there is an effort to help people succeed, that changes the lives of individuals in families; the families tend to do better. And then, on the other hand, there's all kinds of evidence that as our economy has continued to deteriorate and poverty has exploded, and more and more people have lost jobs, many times for the first time in their entire lives, that puts enormous pressure on the families.
We are being called today, you and I, to measure up to the real family values of America, which is to value our families and help each other raise our children and strengthen our families, and broaden the horizons of our community so that we can all live up to be what we were meant to be. That is the challenge that we face today in honoring the family. "
 
VICE PRESIDENT DAN QUAYLE
In response to a question yesterday about money from Congress to rebuild Homestead Air Force base in Florida.
" I hope we will get that turned around. It may be difficult. The budget is tight, but I'm convinced when they reflect on the issue that they'll come around to supporting our position for two major reasons. One, it's in our security interest. The Homestead Air Force Base is critical to us. When you look at Latin America, look at Cuba. We invest in national security, we invest in national defense, and build other Air Force bases and other military bases because it is in our interest. There's another benefit, and that is jobs and economic development in the local area. But the first reason is what is in our national interest and it is in our national interest to make sure Homestead Air Force Base is rebuilt. "
 
SENATOR AL GORE
In a speech to the Ohio Democratic Convention in Columbus yesterday.
" Jim Baker went on to say in that same speech, and I will quote him again, he said, 'It's amazing what George Bush can do when he really concentrates.' You know, think about that a minute: It would be nice to have a President who can really concentrate; concentrate on us, on our country, on average working families, instead of worrying about everything else under the sun. Well, apparently that speech that he made at the convention, after he started concentrating and targeting America, didn't go too well. The next morning the stock market went down. The dollar is still going down, unfortunately. So, just a few days ago they decided they'd better do it again, and the President bought a million worth of television time to announce what he wanted to do for the economy. Well, my first question was, Where you been the last four years? "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); OHIO UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US); WASHINGTON MONUMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); BUDGETS (74%); ELECTIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



390 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 55; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Creates Commission to Study Judges' Pay

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has been tangling with New York State's Chief Judge for a year over financing for the judiciary, has announced the creation of a commission to examine how much state judges should be paid.
But the Chief Judge, Sol Wachtler, pointing out that a commission had recommended raises for judges five years ago, called Mr. Cuomo's move "just a bureaucratic way of avoiding what must be confronted." 
 Last January, in what seemed a finale to what a Federal judge had called "an unseemly conflict," the Governor and the Chief Judge dropped lawsuits against each other after Mr. Cuomo committed himself to providing money to restore the courts to their former strength. Judges' salaries were not part of that package.
Last week, while Mr. Cuomo was on a five-day trade mission to Israel, Judge Wachtler released a letter repeating calls for judicial raises.
The Governor, in a press release on Thursday announcing the commission, said: "The salaries of state judges should be examined to determine if they are adequate. This examination needs to take into consideration the State's current economic condition and potential cost savings within the courts."
The release said the commission "has been asked to report as soon as it can, consistent with a thorough study." The commission chairman will be James R. Jones, chairman of the American Stock Exchange; the other members have not been named.
Judge Wachtler said that a commission had recommended salary increases for judges in 1987, "and the Governor cast it aside." He continued, "The judges are the only permanent employees of the state who have been singled out for no salary increase for six years."
A spokesman for the Governor, Tom Conroy, said that the previous commission was for the three branches of government, and "none of the branches has had raises for quite some time."
But Judge Wachtler said, "There are 5,000 employees of the executive branch who receive increases every year and who are earning more than the average judge." The average judge is paid $84,000 a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NYSE AMEX LLC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; JUDGES JUDGES (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); WACHTLER, SOL (CHIEF JUDGE) MARIO M CUOMO (92%); SOL WACHTLER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



391 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Vice President;
Quayle Visits Hurricane Victims in Tent City

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla., Sept. 12

 BODY:
Vice President Dan Quayle came to this hurricane-flattened city today to hear from victims of the disaster and to reassure wary Florida voters that the Bush Administration cares.
"We're still committed to Homestead," said Mr. Quayle, who was accompanied by his wife, Marilyn, and two of the couple's three children. "We've come to hear from the people and see what kind of requests we get." 
 President Bush has twice visited the areas devastated by the Aug. 24 hurricane, but it was Mr. Quayle's first visit.
 
Base Called 'Linchpin'
 Among the Federal aid President Bush promised was $480 million to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, which the Pentagon estimates added $405 million a year to the local economy before it was destroyed by the storm. But on Thursday, the Senate Appropriations Committee cut that money from the President's $7.6 billion fund for rebuilding South Florida.
Mr. Quayle today called the base "a linchpin to the community" and said that it should not be "closed by Mother Nature."
He later visited a tent city, where he took part in a discussion with eight residents, and toured two disaster application centers and a Red Cross kitchen.
Under a lowering sky with a thunderstorm threatening, the Vice President and his wife listened to the tales of the hurricane's homeless.
Many, like Carmen Melchor, were thankful they were sheltered and fed and alive. "We're fine," said Mrs. Melchor, whose husband, Jose Ortiz, was off helping with volunteer cleanup work.
 
'I Used to be a Housewife'
 An onlooker, Maritza Gonzales, had arrived in the camp with her three children and her husband, John Gonzales, three days earlier. She said the apartment they had been sharing with 14 other people had become too crowded. "I used to be a housewife, but now I don't have a house," she said, adding that she had money to rent an apartment but could not find one.
Danny Cox, 32, with two of his three children in his arms, confronted the Vice President with his problems.
"We're not used to this," said Mr. Cox. "There's tension on the family. We need some privacy. When we came they told us there would be family tents."
Earlier today, Mr. Quayle, who heads the White House group that makes space policy, visited Cape Canaveral for a space shuttle launching.
He found a political opening when he was asked by a local television reporter why little had been said about space programs during this Presidential campaign.
Mr. Quayle responded that he hoped it was because there was a bipartisan consensus on NASA, but added: "I don't believe that's really the case. As you know, the Democratic Congress attempted to kill the space station again this week. We were able to stop that.
"I'm afraid that if George Bush isn't re-elected, we're going to see rather dramatic cuts in our space exploration budget. And that will not be good news for the people of Florida."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOMESTEAD (FLA); FLORIDA UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 HURRICANES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WEATHER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); FAMILY (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); SPACECRAFT (63%); SPACE STATIONS (60%); ARMED FORCES (54%); 

PERSON: QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DEWITT, KAREN GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



392 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Where Friends of Money Are the Best of Enemies

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CIZRE, Turkey

 BODY:
The truck driver fired up his rumbly diesel engine and headed out to break a little international law in Iraq.
His truck, designed to cart things like vegetables, had been modified, like many others in this remote and grimy border town in southeastern Turkey. Its flatbed had been raised on jacks to the level of its cab and propped up by wooden supports so that two gigantic extra fuel tanks could be slung below, one on each side, almost touching the ground, capable of carrying seven tons of fuel between them. 
 The 39-year-old driver, Ulker Akbulut, said the customizing was in the good cause of profit.
 
Big Profits in Smuggling
 In the northern Iraqi oil town of Mosul, diesel costs only pennies a gallon. In Turkey it retails for about $2.70 a gallon. After paying odd, informal "taxes" to such collectors as armed Iraqi Kurdish insurgents and Turkish border policemen, Mr. Akbulut said, he could make a profit 30 or 40 times his outlay. So he drove south with food for sale in both Kurdish- and Iraqi-controlled areas of northern Iraq, and returned with diesel.
Technically, the export of oil products from Iraq contravenes the sanctions imposed on Baghdad after the Persian Gulf war. But Turks, Iraqis, the Western allies and just about everybody else seem ready to avert their gaze from the activities of Mr. Akbulut and hundreds of others.
"They told us: you cannot carry fuel on top of your trucks," Mr. Akbulut said, "so we carry it below in extra tanks for our own use." Then he roared off in his truck to make some money.
 
Political Lines Shift
 It would be uncharacteristic of this volatile region, however, if the adventures of Mr. Akbulut and his many colleagues were unrelated to some political derring-do.
In the era before Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, Turkey maintained a close economic and political relationship with Iraq. And both agreed that nationalism among the fractious Kurds whose clans straddle their borders -- and those of Iran and Syria, too -- was a bad thing.
Ankara gave no succor to Iraqi Kurds. Baghdad permitted Turkish warplanes to fly hot-pursuit missions against insurgent Turkish Kurds taking refuge in northern Iraq. And, with Iraq exporting much of its crude oil in pipelines across Turkey -- and Turkish trucks also exporting some refined products -- the relationship prospered.
Then came the Persian Gulf war.
Turkey was one of the first to side with the American-sponsored coalition. The truck traffic stopped. People like Mr. Akbulut fell on hard times.
These days the lineup is different. While Turkey pursues its own conflict with a Turkish Kurdish insurgent group that operates from northern Iraq, it fetes the leaders of the Iraqi Kurds in Ankara. And, according to both Iraqi Kurds and Turkish leaders, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq has joined two of his adversaries, Iran and Syria, in supporting the Turkish Kurds battling his onetime allies in Ankara.
A result has been that one set of Kurds has turned against the other, while the powers that control their destiny fight it out among themselves. The situation is reminiscent of earlier days, when pre-revoluionary Iran sponsored the Iraqi Kurds against Baghdad, only to ditch them when relations improved.
Throughout the summer, the relationship between Turkish Kurds and Iraqi Kurds has soured as the Turkish Kurdish insurgents of the Kurdish Workers Party have sought to escalate their war with Ankara from refuges in northern Iraq and elsewhere.
The Iraqi Kurds, dependent on the road route from Turkey for food, have tried to restrain them. In mid-summer, the Turkish Kurdish insurgents retaliated by telling drivers like Mr. Akbulut not to make the run to northern Iraq. They burned some Turkish trucks to make the point.
 
Conflict Over Land
 For a brief period, supplies dried up as the Turkish Kurdish insurgents pressed their demands for tenure in northern Iraq, while Iraqi Kurds laid claim to the same areas to resettle their own displaced people.
Massoud Barzani, one of the two main Iraqi Kurdish leaders, visited Ankara recently to discuss the Turkish Kurds with Prime Minister Suleyman Demirel.
"We are not ready to endure any more the illegal existence of the P.K.K. in the Kurdish area," he told reporters in northern Iraq, referring to the Turkish Kurdish insurgents by their Kurdish initials. "If they want to deny our authorities here, we will use force against them. Either we must leave the area for the P.K.K. or they must leave it for us."
Behind such statements is Realpolitik.
Ankara has befriended the Iraqi Kurds and permits the allies to fly deterrent flights over northern Iraq from the Incirlik air base in southeastern Turkey because it wishes to maintain its long alliance with the West and to prevent a new influx of Iraqi Kurdish refugees.
But it frets that the latest Western moves to create a second air exclusion zone in southern Iraq will hasten Iraq's disintegration and thereby lead to the creation of a Kurdish state in the north. That might embolden the separatists among the six-million-strong Kurdish population in southeastern Turkey -- one tenth of the overall population .
Against this backdrop, people like Mr. Akbulut are allowed to ply their trade in northern Iraq because, by United Nations estimates, the trucks that take food south to Mosul, a city under Baghdad's control, supply one third of Iraq's food -- a point that Ankara will underline, Western diplomats said, when it comes to patching up relations with Baghdad. Trading in food and medicine is permitted under the Gulf War sanctions.
The diesel that burdens Mr. Akbulut's truck, by contrast, represents only a miniscule proportion of Iraq's pre-war oil exports.
"It's a job," Mr Akbulut said, shrugging off the politics. "It is how we live."

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq and Turkey, indicating Kurdish region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); IRAQ (99%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; TURKEY TURKEY (99%); IRAQ (99%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; KURDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); CIVIL WAR (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



393 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Facing Voter Rebellions, Incumbents Hope to Eke Out Victories

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
In a year marked by fierce anti-incumbent sentiments nationwide, several members of New York's Congressional delegation are locked in testy primary battles. But as the races enter their last days, the voter rebellion has been overshadowed by racial and ethnic appeals and tempered by redistricting, which has sent incumbents scrambling into new territory.
Just days before Tuesday's primary, some voters in some of the most hotly contested Congressional districts -- from Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant across Queens and the Bronx to suburban Great Neck on Long Island -- are still undecided. In a sign of the volatility of the electorate, people railed against any and all officeholders, but then admitted that they knew little or nothing of the challengers. 
 "I'm a Perot person," said Felix Navarro, a 45-year-old bus driver who lives in Queens. "I'm tired of these crooked politicians. What I want is change. I would vote just for anyone who is new, just to have a change." He laced into the incumbent Democrat in his district, Representative Gary L. Ackerman. But of Mr. Ackerman's opponent, Rita Morris, a librarian from Westbury, L.I., he said, "Who is she? Rita Morris? She should have more visibility."
The usual voter uncertainties have been sharply heightened by Congressional redistricting, which, because of population shifts, reduced the New York Congressional delegation by three seats this year. The partisan battles over how to redraw the state's Congressional districts were settled in July, twisting many districts into bizarre shapes.
The result has been confusion that sometimes approaches comedy. Anthony Lancellotti, 81, was railing "out, out, out" against incumbents at a center for the elderly in Corona this summer. He had just finished announcing, "This is the Ackerman area, I want him out too," when another incumbent, Stephen J. Solarz of Brooklyn, came by and shook his hand. "Yes," Mr. Solarz told him. "I'm part of Corona now."
Political analysts say the new districts have tempered the throw-the-bums-out mentality, since the so-called bums have already been thrown out -- into somebody else's district. And many of the incumbents who might have been the most endangered are leaving office. In New York State, eight incumbents will not seek re-election this fall, costing the state the seniority that is crucial to committee chairmanships and prying loose Federal money.
Five Congressional incumbents, all of them Democrats, are facing significant primary challenges: Mr. Ackerman and Mr. Solarz, as well as Edolphus Towns in Brooklyn, the Rev. Floyd H. Flake in Queens and Eliot L. Engel in the Bronx. Charles B. Rangel and Ted Weiss, both Manhattan Democrats, and Susan Molinari, a Republican, are facing token primary challenges. With the Democratic primary tantamount to election in New York City, only Mr. Ackerman, whose district stretches into Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, would face a second significant race in November should he win the primary.
Mr. Solarz and Mr. Towns, the two Brooklyn Democrats in the most closely watched primary races, broke with the year's conventional wisdom and stressed their seniority and familiarity with Washington, as a tactic in contests that have taken on racial and ethnic overtones. "Steve Solarz is using the experience and power he has right now, for us," says the voice-over on one of Mr. Solarz's 30-second television spots.
 
Stressing Experience
 Mr. Solarz, a nine-term member of Congress, whose former district was carved into six pieces, has stressed his incumbency and Washington savvy as a theme to counter the charges by his Hispanic opponents that he is thwarting minority empowerment.
Mr. Solarz is seeking re-election in the 12th Congressional District, which was carved out of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan's Lower East Side specifically to enhance Hispanic voting strength. He has argued that voters should consider who has the most influence to bring Federal dollars to their impoverished neighborhoods.
In the 12th District, where Hispanic residents make up 49 percent of registered Democrats, some Hispanic voters agree. At a variety store in Williamsburg, Joe Rodriguez, who was wearing a baseball cap emblazoned with the words "I'm a citizen," said the Hispanic candidates in the race "have no experience." He added, "Solarz has been around a long time. Experience is what counts."
But many other Hispanic residents in the shops on the Brooklyn side of the Williamsburg Bridge insisted they wanted a representative of their own ethnicity. "He should leave the Spanish to the Spanish," said Evang Gonzalez. "We don't want outsiders. He doesn't even live around here."
Five Hispanic candidates are running in the 12th district. Polls have shown Nydia M. Velazquez, former United States secretary of Puerto Rico's community affairs office, as the leading Hispanic contender. But Elizabeth Colon from the lower East Side has also waged a strong race. They have portrayed Mr. Solarz as a junketeer who wrote 743 overdrafts on his House Bank account. But neither has the financing to match the $2 million war chest of Mr. Solarz. Political analysts say the vote will be split enough to let Mr. Solarz eke into office.
"I think he's going to win," said Norman Adler, a Brooklyn-based political consultant. "If he doesn't win, it will be viewed as a major upset."
In Brooklyn's neighboring 10th Congressional District, Mr. Towns, who is seeking a sixth term, has also stressed his seniority in a message that could appeal to both his traditional black base, as well as to predominantly white neighborhoods like Brooklyn Heights that were moved into his district under reapportionment. "I want people to think he happens to be black but he's an effective member of Congress," Mr. Towns said last month, denying that race was a major factor in the contest.
 
408 Check Overdrafts
 But Susan D. Alter, one of his two white opponents, has pulled close to Mr. Towns in recent weeks by criticizing his voting record, his close ties to the tobacco industry and his 408 check overdrafts on the House Bank. Frank Seddio, a lawyer from Canarsie, is also running.
With the race now considered too close to call, Mr. Towns has moved to solidify his standing among black voters, who make up 56.6 percent of the district. His campaign has latched onto a mailing by Mrs. Alter that shows two brains, one of them pea-sized, and suggests that Mr. Towns underestimates the intelligence of voters. The Towns campaign -- in an appeal to black voters -- has branded the flier as "racist code literature."
But at least some constituents have shown that they are considering more than race. Big Red News, a black weekly in Brooklyn, has endorsed Mrs. Alter, a member of the City Council. And the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, the umbrella organization for the area's large concentration of Hasidic Jews, is supporting Mr. Towns against Mrs. Alter, who is Jewish.
Along Fulton Street, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, many black voters said they were torn by the choice between a black incumbent and a white challenger. "We need new faces and we need more minorities," said Patrick Nelson, a 54-year-old unemployed carpenter.
In the Fifth Congressional District, weaving through Queens, Nassau and Suffolk, Mr. Ackerman, a four-term incumbent with his base in Queens, has been challenged by Mrs. Morris, who is seeking to benefit from the anti-incumbent mood and from a nationwide wave of support for female candidates. Strategists say that Mr. Ackerman's recognition in the Queens section of the district gives him the edge in a Democratic primary. But many voters seem largely unaware of the contest and still others say they have yet to decide.
 
A Warning to Mr. Flake
 Also in Queens, Representative Flake is being challenged in a Democratic primary by Simeon Golar, a former city official who has the backing of the Queens Democratic organization. Officials of the party machine concede that Mr. Flake, the 47-year-old pastor of Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church, is likely to win, but they describe the race as a warning to Mr. Flake that he cannot mount grass-roots challenges to party district leaders and still expect support.
In the 17th Congressional District in the Bronx and Westchester, anyone who wants to throw out the incumbent would only get the former incumbent -- the one who went to prison in 1989 after he was convicted of bribery and extortion.
Mario Biaggi, the 74-year-old former Congressman who was released from prison because of poor health well before he completed his eight-year prison term, is challenging Representative Engel, who calls his opponent's race "preposterous" and grumbles that Mr. Biaggi "must have gone to Lourdes."
Mr. Engel is favored to win, but Bill Lynch Jr., a political adviser to Mayor David N. Dinkins, cautions, "you never know." With voters showing signs of disaffection and indifference to politics, the primary on Tuesday is expected to have an exceedingly low turnout. That could scramble all the primary contests. "In a low turnout race," Mr. Lynch said, "anything can happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the shops on Broadway in Williamsburg, Hispanic residents insisted on a representative of their own ethnicity for the 12th Congressional District. Evang Gonzalez, right, with Aida Dipuma in the Aries Flower Shop, said of incumbent Stephen J. Solarz, "He should leave the Spanish to the Spanish." (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); POPULATION DECLINE (55%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON GARY L ACKERMAN (79%); ED TOWNS (58%); ELIOT L ENGEL (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



394 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Ross Perot;
Noncandidate Still, Perot Could Still Be a Spoiler

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Ross Perot is tantalizing his remaining supporters with suggestions that he might resuscitate his Presidential campaign, but experts think his most significant role in the race may be the threat he poses of taking a few percentage points away from President Bush in their home state of Texas.
Mr. Perot's name seems certain to be on the ballot in all 50 states, according to Richard Winger, editor of Ballot Access News, a San Francisco newsletter. Petitions have been filed in 49 states and are due to be handed over in Arizona on Friday. Mr. Perot is spending about $500,000 a month to maintain offices in every state for petition drives and to support local candidates who share his views. 
 A reduced but nonetheless sizable band of volunteers remains ready to do his bidding. He pops up frequently on television to plug his new book and scatter hints that he may revive his aborted Presidential candidacy.
If so, he could influence the overall results -- most importantly, a number of political analysts believe, by taking enough votes from the President to tip Texas, with its 32 electoral votes, into Mr. Clinton's column.
 
Not Saying No
 "If the volunteers said, 'It's a dirty job but you've got to do it,' I belong to them," the Texas billionaire said on Friday on a call-in program on C-SPAN. "Let's try to get the two parties to step up to the plate. If they don't, we'll do what we have to do. But there's no plan for an October surprise or a September surprise. There is nothing planned."
Mr. Perot can be bluntly plain-spoken when he wants to, but all of his recent comments about his intentions have been as clear as mud. There is method in his murkiness, says one of his oldest, most intimate associates.
"Keeping his options open until the last conceivable moment has always been Ross's M.O.," said the associate, who asked not to be named. "There's no need for him to make a decision until next month, and I don't think he's made one. He could still go, and he could still not go."
Edward J. Rollins, the Republican political consultant who briefly worked for the Perot campaign, said, "I fully expect him to get back in."
 
Erasing 'Quitter' Label
 "He hates the fact that people called him a quitter," said Mr. Rollins, who was hired to help run the Perot campaign earlier this year but resigned in disgust in July, just before Mr. Perot pulled out of the race. "The only way he saves his reputation is to jump in again, and there's nobody left in Dallas to tell him not to do it. He knows he isn't going to be President now, but he wants to be able to say, 'I stood up, and I laid out the tough agenda.' "
His principal lieutenants, Morton H. Myerson and Thomas W. Luce 3d, are no longer involved in Mr. Perot's political movement, which he has renamed "United We Stand." Mr. Myerson has returned to running Perot Systems, Mr. Perot's computer services company, and Mr. Luce has returned to his law practice. His relations with Mr. Perot are reported to have been badly strained by an overnight visit he made to the White House late in July, for which Mr. Perot upbraided him.
No longer are there millions of volunteers. Many were deeply disillusioned when Mr. Perot pulled out, like the caller on the C-SPAN show who said she cried when she heard the news and demanded, "What are you doing?" But there remain hundreds of thousands still ready to march.
A major element in Mr. Perot's ultimate decision may be his appraisal of Mr. Bush's chances. He has spoken with increasing contempt of the President's economic record and programs. On Friday he recalled angrily that Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, had called him "a monster," and rattled off statistics to demonstrate what he called 12 years of economic failure under the Republicans.
 
Victory Seems Improbable
 "All of this is called trickle-down economics," Mr. Perot said, only 24 hours after the President announced his big economic initiative, "but the truth of the matter is, it didn't trickle down. We're just handing out candy bars."
He has spoken much more gently about Democratic shortcomings.
A recent Gallup Poll suggested that with an active candidacy Mr. Perot might approach 20 percent of the total vote nationally, which would be better than either George C. Wallace or John B. Anderson did in their third-party candidacies and enough to have a significant impact in many states.
But few political professionals believe he could do that well after the waves of negative publicity generated by his pullout on July 16. Candidates with no real prospect of winning the Presidency almost inevitably fade in the final weeks, and a Perot victory seems wholly incredible now.
Mr. Perot's political strength appears to be concentrated in the Southwest, the Mountain States and the West. Polls in California and Arizona late last month put him in double digits, and in his home state of Texas, on which the President is counting heavily, a Dallas Morning News survey early this month showed what amounted to a three-way tie, even with no active Perot electoral effort.
 
Threat in the West
 To some degree, those figures represent disenchanted Bush supporters who are not prepared yet to back Mr. Clinton. Many will eventually decide to go with a major-party candidate, if past experience is any guide.
But if Mr. Perot campaigned actively next month and mounted an extensive television campaign, argues Kevin Phillips, the Republican analyst, he could win as much as 10 percent in Arizona, California and Texas -- mainly from areas like Orange County in Southern California, Silicon Valley in Northern California and the Phoenix, Dallas and Houston suburbs. Such votes, Mr. Phillips believes, would be cast by Republican centrists and "would come disproportionately from Bush."
Florida, Colorado and New Mexico are other targets of opportunity.
There is not universal agreement that a renewed Perot candidacy would hurt the President. For example, Mervin Field, the California poll taker, said he thought that some of the Perot vote that switched to Mr. Clinton in July remained soft and could switch back to Mr. Perot, helping Mr. Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PETITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (77%); BALLOTS (76%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



395 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 55; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: In a Field Studded With Novices, 2 Senate Candidates Vie in Primary 1

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Sept. 13

 BODY:
Connecticut voters, battered by the recession and angered by a new income tax, are a weary and irascible group whose reactions to this year's candidates for Congress are far from certain.
In the primary here Tuesday, Republican voters will choose a candidate for the United States Senate, as well as candidates in two Congressional districts. Democrats also have a choice in two Congressional races. 
 Political novices abound in both parties this year. Several candidates have never set foot in the political arena before, but are doing so because they think they could be the antidote to voter disgust with career politicians.
 
Senate Primary
 The Senate primary has been a somewhat lackluster race, with little controversy or mudslinging until recently. In a debate televised last Sunday the candidates, Chris Burnham and Brook Johnson, traded insults, with Mr. Burnham, a two-term state representative, accusing Mr. Johnson of plagiarizing many of the ideas in his 28-page economic plan. Mr. Johnson responded by telling Mr. Burnham that despite being in the race for a year, "you have yet to produce any plan for anyone to read."
In the same debate, Mr. Johnson described himself as having served on a Greenwich school board. This week, his campaign issued a correction, saying he had served on the board of his children's private school, Greenwich Country Day School. In fact, the school's administration has said, Mr. Johnson served on a committee but may join the board later this year. In another debate broadcast over the weekend, Mr. Burnham attacked Mr. Johnson for the misinformation. Mr. Johnson later called his opponent "a whiny kid talking about things he's absolutely wrong about."
 
Similar Positions
 The two Senate candidates, who are vying for the chance to oppose the Democratic incumbent, Christopher J. Dodd, have similar positions on major issues. Both are emphasizing job creation for Connecticut and reducing the Federal deficit. Both favor abortion rights and both want a balanced-budget amendment. Mr. Burnham, an investment banker on leave for the campaign, has served two terms as a state representative from Stamford. Mr. Johnson, who has never held public office, is a millionaire who lives in Greenwich and runs a towel and bedding company. Mr. Burnham has trudged around the state on a shoestring budget, spending $450,000 so far; Mr. Johnson has spent about $900,000, half of that on television commercials to try to make himself a household name.
In what may be either a canny political move or an act of outright desperation, the state Republican Party has endorsed a registered Democrat, Robert K. Ludgin, in the race for the Congressional seat in the First District, centered on Hartford. Mr. Ludgin, a former Deputy Mayor of Hartford, is a self-described "independent cuss" who has broken with his own party on other issues in the past. His challenger, Philip L. Steele, is a lawyer and radio host, also from Hartford, who contends that Mr. Ludgin's endorsement sends the wrong message to Republican voters.
Both Republicans acknowledge that unseating the incumbent, Barbara B. Kennelly, a five-term Democrat who is the daughter of John Bailey, who was state party chairman from 1946 to 1975, will be difficult. No Republican has been elected in the First District since 1956, when Ed May was swept in on the coattails of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, then swept out again two years later.
In the Second District's Republican primary, Glenn T. Carberry, the party-endorsed candidate, faces Ed Munster, a state senator. Mr. Carberry ran against the incumbent, Representative Sam Gejdenson, four years ago and lost. Mr. Carberry, a lawyer from New London, has never held public office. Both he and Mr. Munster, a statistician for the Pfizer Corporation when he is not in the State Legislature, say they would make creating jobs a priority. This is a major issue in their district, which covers much of eastern Connecticut, where military contractors have long been concentrated, but where layoffs are rife as Federal military spending shrinks.
 
Franks's Opponents
 In the Fifth District, the state's most highly charged primary battle has shaped up between Jim Lawlor, a probate judge from Waterbury, and Lynn Taborsak, a state representative who is a licensed plumber. The two Democrats seek to oppose the incumbent, Gary Franks, the only black Republican in Congress. They stand far apart on some of the major issues. Mr. Lawlor, for example, is against abortion rights, while Ms. Taborsak supports them.
The two Democrats have traded personal attacks all summer. One of the most persistent is an accusation that Ms. Taborsak introduced legislation that called for schools to teach masturbation as part of a sex-education course; her staff says that the amendment she filed was intended to block a more conservative agenda put forth by a colleague, which would have insisted that abstinence be taught as the only means of preventing AIDS and teen-age pregnancy. Ms. Taborsak has charged that Mr. Lawlor improperly accepted campaign contributions from lawyers whose cases could come before his court, which the Lawlor campaign has denied.
In the Sixth District, a much less volatile race has taken place between two Democrats seeking to challenge a popular Republican incumbent, Representative Nancy L. Johnson. The Democrats, Gene Slason, an accountant from Southington, and Alan DiCara of Winsted, are both political newcomers. Both advocate job creation and term limits for members of the House of Representatives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) GREENWICH COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) GREENWICH COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PLAGIARISM (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); CHILDREN (71%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, BROOK; BURNHAM, CHRISTOPHER B; HAYS, CONSTANCE L CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



396 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 56; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: In Domestic Violence, These Charges Stick

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWTON, N.J.

 BODY:
Albert D. rolled his eyes and grimaced when he was told he had to spend Labor Day weekend in the Sussex County jail.
"If a married couple wants to patch things up between themselves," he moaned, "why get the law involved?" 
 What Albert and his wife Lillian wanted to settle between themselves was her call to the police a few days earlier, saying her husband had punched and kicked her when she threatened to leave him and take their three children with her. Now she wanted to drop the complaint.
No way, said the police, prosecutor and judge. In Sussex County, in northwest New Jersey, if the authorities are called to break up a family fight, the assailant is arrested on an assault charge and goes before a Superior Court judge. Even if the victim wants to drop the charge, the prosecution goes ahead with the case.
 
All Fights Go to Judge
 No more letting couples make up and leaving the police to wait for the next time tempers flare.
Some other jurisdictions in the region have adopted a "pro-arrest" policy in recent years to crack down on domestic violence, instructing the police to arrest and jail a batterer if evidence of assault is observed. But only rural Sussex, population 140,000, insists that all criminal cases stemming from family fights be resolved in Family Court before a judge.
In civil cases, as when a family member obtains a restraining order to keep a threatening spouse at a safe distance, the person filing the complaint is also required to appear before a judge and at least sit down with a counselor from a local victims advocates group before the case is closed. He or she may be held in contempt if the court date is not met.
"The court takes the position that we do not dismiss these cases lightly," said Superior Court Judge Lorraine Parker. "First of all it is very frustrating and demoralizing to police officers who are called to the same house time after time to break up a fight only to have the complaint dropped by the victim the next day.
 
Almost Always Some Jail
 "But more importantly we take the view that it is unacceptable for quarrelling husbands and wives to slap each other around," she said.
If they are permitted to plead guilty to a reduced charge of simple battery, first offenders like Albert D. almost always get a few weekends in jail to drive home the point. They also are ordered as part of probation to attend 29 weekly sessions by Domestic Abuse Services, a local nonprofit victims support group, to understand why they use violence or intimidation.
Dennis O'Leary, the Sussex County Prosecutor, said the policy was inspired, but not mandated, by New Jersey's tough new domestic violence act that took effect last November. A community task force recommended the tough line after studying domestic violence, a leading cause of police complaints in Sussex that often were not prosecuted until bones were broken or the victim died, he said.
"If the violence is serious enough to call in the cops, the criminal-justice system will not let go of the case until one or both parties get help with their problem," said Mr. O'Leary.
 
Takes Burden off Victim
 There is preliminary evidence, he noted, that the new policy is reducing repeat offenses in these types of cases. Another important side effect of "pro-prosecution" is it removes responsibility from the victims, nearly all women, to punish the abusers.
Women, domestic-violence experts say, are often intimidated by fear of future beatings or don't like to see husbands get caught up in the criminal justice system since the victims may suffer the social or economic consequences of a jail term or fine as much as their male abusers.
"What these women want most is for their men to get help with their problems," said Jeanine Ferris Piro, a Westchester County judge in New York, who hailed the Sussex experiment and said it bore watching. Judge Piro is a former prosecutor who headed the domestic violence and child abuse bureau in Westchester, where 21 of 43 police departments follow a "pro-arrest policy."
But overloaded dockets and overworked judges discourage some courts from prosecuting these cases unless the victim is a willing witness.
 
'Coerced Prosecution'
 In New York, some officials are ambivalent "about forcing a woman into a coerced prosecution and making her a hostile witness," said Karla DiGirolamo, executive director of Governor Cuomo's Commission on Domestic Violence.
Sussex officials recognize that what works in a small rural county in New Jersey's highlands may not be feasible in a large urban one. It wasn't all that long ago that Sussex had more cows than people. But as new highways in the last 20 years cut travel time to New York City, commuting families moved in, as well as workers in new ski resorts and amusement parks.
The new policy has about doubled the number of domestic violence cases heard by the Family Court, forcing a delay in divorce and custody proceedings, said Judge Parker.
Bruce LaCarrubba, an assistant county prosecutor, spends Thursdays -- called "Family Feud Day" in the courthouse corridors -- handling about 20 criminal domestic violence cases filed the previous week. He handles each case systematically, huddling first with the victim to hear what outcome she wants, then giving the offender a package deal if he will plead guilty to a reduced charge.
 
Often, Professional Help
 "Usually we try to get the guy some professional help to deal with what are obviously deep-seated problems," said Mr. LaCarrubba. In cases involving serious injury, evidence is presented to a grand jury to consider a felony indictment.
Lillian D. had made it clear she did not want her husband, an electrician, to go to jail. Mr. LaCarrubba, conferring with her, insisted some jail time was necessary, in addition to counseling and psychological evaluation at county expense.
"Given what he did to you," he told her, "he should spend more than one weekend in jail."
He relented, however, and minutes later was telling the husband that because of his wife's intervention he would go to jail for only one weekend. "I wanted four weekends but she nagged me down to one."
 
'I Told You She Was a Nag'
 The husband, without hestitation, responded: "I told you she was a nag. Pretty soon you're going to want to belt her."
Mr. LaCarrubba's eyes narrowed as he measured the hefty man standing before him. For a few seconds there was a feeling the electrician had talked his way back into four weekends in the county jail.
The husband, sensing trouble, rolled up his sleeve and exhibited a livid scar on a forearm. "She did that with a fork," he explained. He then hitched up a trouser leg, exposing an older wound. "Screwdriver."
Mr. LaCarrubba let the single weekend sentence stand, a decision affirmed minutes later in a brief hearing before a judge, and in minutes he was in conference with another emotionally confused and torn victim, alternately consoling her and insisting on an apt punishment for her batterer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After filing assault and battery charges against her spouse, a woman met with Bruce LaCarrubba, an assistant prosecutor in Sussex County, to ask that a restraining order against the husband be lifted. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUSSEX COUNTY (NJ); NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BATTERED SPOUSES MARRIAGE (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FAMILY (78%); FAMILY LAW (77%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FAMILY COURTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



397 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: New York's Budget Chief Asks Reduced Requests

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
New York City's Budget Director said yesterday that he would ask city agency heads this week for detailed plans on how they would help cut expenses by $500 million next year to meet a projected $1.6 billion budget gap for fiscal 1994, which starts next July.
The Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, said the anticipated cuts to balance a 1994 budget of $29.5 billion would not affect all agencies in proportion to the size of their budgets, but would probably reflect the priorities of Mayor David N. Dinkins in promoting education, social services and the police. 
 In the complex world of municipal budget making, Mr. Michael's request for plans on how to save the $500 million is a bit like an opening bid in a game that will see counterproposals, lobbying and intense negotiations before the final judgments are decided.
 
Trims Via Attrition
 The Budget Director declined to say how the cuts might affect hiring or the size of the city's work force, which is just over 200,000 and has been cut by 8,000 in the last 15 months. The Dinkins administration pledged last January to trim thousands of additional jobs through attrition in the next three years.
"The Mayor is determined to stick to fiscal stability, regardless of how painful it might be," Mr. Michael said in an interview. "Maybe on a national level the strategy is to spend billions they don't have, but on our level the Mayor is not going to spend money he doesn't have."
Asked about the size of the projected cuts, Mr. Michael said they represented only 1.7 percent of the budget, adding: "We've done so much cutting in the last three years that an agency reduction in the $500 million range is quite deep."
 
Detailed Targets Are Next
 The request for long-range budget-cutting plans, reported yesterday by Newsday, will be made in a letter over Mr. Michael's signature asking agency heads to respond by Oct. 1. Later this fall, in a process that involves much give and take, Mayor Dinkins will set the detailed targets for each agency.
The size of next year's cuts and of the projected deficit were spelled out earlier this year when city officials made budget plans for fiscal 1994. Those projections have changed little in recent months, but could be adjusted up or down depending on the performance of the city's economy, the size of state and Federal aid and other factors.
Mr. Michael called his letter part of a continuing process of financial planning. The city, he said, modifies its plans and projections quarterly, looking ahead not only to the next fiscal year but several years beyond.
Current projections anticipate deficits of $1.7 billion in fiscal 1995 and $2.2 billion in fiscal 1996. But these are so far into the future that most city officials and budget planners take them with a grain of salt, noting that much could change along the way. Last spring, Mayor Dinkins announced that a $550 million surplus had been found that would help balance the current budget.
Plans for closing next year's projected $1.6 billion budget gap, Mr. Michael said, were made months ago. They anticipate $200 million more in Federal aid and $600 million more in relief from Albany through increases in the so-called commuter income taxes, a state takeover of Medicaid costs and more aid to education.
In addition, the city had planned to issue bonds next year to borrow $300 million for operating costs. Municipal bonds are ordinarily sold to finance construction and other long-term projects, not to cover operating costs, and after wide criticism city officials said they would drop the bond plan if other sources of money were found.
Mr. Michael noted that alternative sources were found. A month ago, a refinancing of municipal debt gained $100 million, and new projections of an improved city economic performance has allowed fiscal planners to project $200 million more in tax revenues for fiscal 1993 and 1994, making a total of $300 million available and clearing the way to cancel the bond plan.
That money, plus the $200 million from Washington and the $600 million from Albany, adds up to $1.1 billion, leaving the city still $500 million short in closing the $1.6 billion gap in fiscal 1994. That $500 million is the amount that current projections say must be cut by city agencies next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); LOBBYING (75%); LABOR FORCE (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL, PHILIP R (DIR); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D PHILIP R MICHAEL (95%); DAVID N DINKINS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



398 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 15; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Anne Eldridge and Colm Connolly

 BODY:
Anne Elizabeth Eldridge, the daughter of Mrs. Carleton G. Eldridge Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y., and the late Mr. Eldridge, was married there yesterday to Colm Felix Connolly, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Felix P. Connolly of Wilmington, Del. The Rev. Dr. Robert W. Bedingfield officiated at the Reformed Church of Bronxville. The Rev. Joseph McLaughlin, a Roman Catholic priest, took part in the ceremony.
Mrs. Connolly, 26 years old, was until recently a clerk for Judge Jay C. Waldman of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. She is to join the Philadelphia law firm of Dechert, Price & Rhoads as an associate next month. She graduated cum laude from Dartmouth College and received a law degree from Duke University, as did her husband. Her father was a partner in the New York law firm of Coudert Brothers. 
 Mr. Connolly, 27, is to become an assistant United States attorney in Delaware in the fall. Until recently he was a clerk for Judge Walter K. Stapleton of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame and received a master's degree in politics from the London School of Economics.
His mother, Rita C. Connolly, owns A Touch of the Orient, an Asian antique import store in Yorklyn, Del. His father, now retired, was an Asia-Pacific regional director for the Delaware-based Du Pont Company in Tokyo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne and Colm Connolly (Susan Christenson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (50%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (84%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (50%); DELAWARE, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS LAWYERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); RELIGION (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); 

PERSON: ELDRIDGE, ANNE ELIZABETH (ANNE ELIZABETH CONNOLLY); CONNOLLY, COLM FELIX JOSEPH J MCLAUGHLIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



399 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Raising the Stakes In a War of Plastic

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The plastic thicket of credit cards has grown denser in the last two weeks with announcements from General Motors and General Electric that they will market new cards.
More junk mail can be disorienting for anyone trying to find the best terms available, but the new cards are nevertheless welcome news for consumers. Taken together, they provide a good indication of how the growing competition in the business has forced credit-card issuers, including a growing number of companies that are not banks, to offer better terms to attract or hold on to customers. 
 The cards' many features also highlight how sophisticated the industry has become since the first charge cards were issued four decades ago. Visa U.S.A. said the resulting confusion among consumers -- and no doubt the threat of new competitors like G.M.'s Mastercard -- had prompted it to develop a 24-page credit card "Owner's Manual" that it plans to announce tomorrow. The free booklet uses the Cathy cartoon character to dole out advice with a light touch. Recommending that customers prepare a realistic budget and manage their credit, for example, the booklet shows Cathy itemizing her expenses: "Food $50, Shelter $600, Medical $10, Miscellaneous $7,000."
While the features offered by G.M. and G.E. are for the most part not new, G.M.'s features in particular are considered a potent force in combination; analysts predict G.M. will issue roughly 3.5 million cards within two years (Sears, Roebuck & Company's Discover card is the top issuer, with 41.2 million; Citibank is second with 30 million and the American Express Company has 25 million, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter in Santa Monica, Calif.)
Consumers, for example, can transfer the balance on their existing credit cards to the G.M. card. With its 16.4 percent interest rate, about 1.8 percent lower than the national average, some customers may see this offer as a free refinancing of their debt. The G.M. card requires no annual fee; G.E.'s is $25.
Some banks have offered balance transfers for a year or two. But the feature has mushroomed in popularity in the last six months, driven in part by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's Universal card, which introduced the feature in April. A.T.& T. has continued the offer in spite of earlier plans to end it in June.
The G.M. and G.E. cards also promise rebates or discounts on purchases of certain consumer goods and services. In the case of G.E., its credit card promises discount coupons and rebates from 24 large companies, including G.E. itself, Kmart, Macy's, Northwest Airlines, Sprint and Hertz.
Users of G.M.'s card can apply a rebate of 5 percent of their annual charges toward buying or leasing a G.M. car or truck (excluding the Saturn). There is a $500 yearly cap, but the rebate can accumulate over seven years to $3,500. And there is no cap on the additional 5 percent rebate offered by G.M.'s partners in the new card -- Avis, Marriott and MCI Communications. And G.M. says it expects more such partners in the future.
Again, such partnerships are not new. In 1987, United Airlines started issuing Mastercard and Visa cards that now earn one frequent flier mile for each dollar charged. But frequent-flier cards typically have high annual fees and many restrictions. By contrast, G.M. and G.E. have few restrictions on their rebates and incentives, which are intended in large measure to increase customer loyalty.
A car company issuing a credit card to help sell more cars is a long way from the roots of the charge card industry. They date to 1951, when Franklin National Bank of Long Island issued cards with a customer's account number. Merchants who also banked at Franklin copied the card number onto a sales slip, or called the bank for approval if the amount exceeded a pre-determined limit. The funds would later be shifted to the merchant's account, with a discount for processing the transaction.
By 1959, about 150 banks were offering these cards, which carried no annual fee. Initially, the cards' balances had to be paid off in full within a month or two. But soon banks started offering extended credit in return for a monthly finance charge.
American Express entered the business in 1958 with its first charge card. In the mid-1960's, banks started forming alliances that could offer cards under a common label to a wider number of customers, for acceptance by a broader base of merchants.
These alliances gave rise to the BankAmericard, which in 1977 became the Visa card, and to the Master Charge card, which evolved into Mastercard in 1979. At the same time, the high interest rates charged by the banks prodded many consumers to pay off their cards monthly. To replace the lost interest income, banks began to charge annual fees.
Those fees annoy consumers, who liken them to paying a cover charge to shop at an expensive convenience store, said Robert B. McKinley, president of RAM Research in Frederick, Md.
Many credit card issuers started dropping annual fees in the late 1980's because interest rates in general had fallen; jumps in the average balance consumers carried on their cards supplied the banks with more interest income.
For example, the average balance on bank credit cards increased more than 50 percent from 1987 to 1992. It currently averages about $1,260 for Visa, Mastercard, Discover and Optima cards.
As consumers started to carry larger balances on their cards, and as the market grew more saturated, credit card companies turned to a host of gimmicks to distinguish themselves from competitors.
Visa issued its gold card in 1988, setting off a battle to offer new features. The result of those skirmishes included programs under which consumers who found a product on sale at a price lower than that at which they bought it could file for the difference if they were willing to do the requisite paperwork. Extended warranties and insurance coverage for broken items were also added. Many are still in place today, although they now carry more restrictions.
The rise of "affinity cards" also underscored the saturation in the industry. With such cards, an organization like a university or environmental group that lends its name to a bank card can receive a few pennies from each transaction. Affinity cards have been issued to appeal to Elvis Presley fans, bowlers and members of minority groups.
After exploding in popularity in the late 1980's, however, affinity cards have waned as banks have in many cases been unable to attract enough cardholders to make the ventures profitable.
In recent years, companies outside the banking industry have developed an interest in acquiring credit card companies, an interest encouraged when the Visa and Mastercard consortiums relaxed their rules on non-banking companies issuing their cards.
These companies saw the potential in promoting their products through credit cards. But David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, said only companies with the profile of an A.T.& T., G.M. or G.E. have the name recognition and credibility necessary to succeed with a national card.
In recent years, many faltering banks reluctantly sold their profitable credit card businesses as sources of ready cash. Such acquisitions helped G.E. increase its bank credit-card business from nothing in 1987 to more than $2 billion in receivables today.
Household Credit Services of Salinas, Calif., which is administering G.M.'s credit card, also elbowed into the top 10 issuers of credit cards, primarily through its acquisition of 19 credit card portfolios over the last five years.
Although credit-card interest rates have remained high despite the falling cost of money, credit card issuers seem to be taking widespread criticism to heart and have lowered rates for many customers. Citicorp, for example, last June lowered its rates for roughly nine million cardholders who have been profitable customers.
 
 
 
SQUARING OFF AGAINST A.T.& T.
 General Motors' new credit card is considered the most important card introduction since A.T.& T. first offered its Universal card in March 1990.
The two cards, in fact, will be competing almost head to head. Both advertise a primary rate of 16.4 percent, the lowest among nationwide cards, which charge more than 18 percent on average. If the prime rate is still 6 percent on Tuesday, A.T.& T. is expected to drop its rate to 15.9 percent.
By several measures, the upstart has been a success. It started operating profitably in June, 27 months after it was introduced and faster than some analysts had expected. With 15 million cards issued and 9.9 million accounts, it is among the largest issuers in the industry. And it is also reaping some benefit, just as G.M. hopes to, by having so many people carrying cards intended to increase loyalty to its primary product, telephone services.
Still, problems remain for A.T.& T. For example, the mix of customers who carry balances and those who pay off the cards every month "is out of whack," said David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter in Santa Monica, Calif.
For most credit card companies, three-quarters of the customers carry balances from month-to-month, and a quarter pay in full each month. For A.T.& T., the mix is roughly the reverse.
To help correct that problem, A.T.& T. started promoting a "balance transfer" feature in April, which allowed people with other cards to switch their balances directly to A.T.& T.'s account.
The A.T.& T. program is nowhere near as profitable as more mature credit card programs, and it has a long way to go before it recoups A.T.& T.'s original investment in the card -- roughly $600 million by some estimates. Still, Mr. Robertson said, "it is absolutely successful."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Already in the Fray," track number of Visa, Mastercard, Discover and Optima cards in use, 1986-1992; average outstanding balance on each Visa, Mastercard, Discover and Optima account, 1986-1992; breakdown of market share for various cards bases on outstanding balances (Source: Ram Research Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); T (NYSE) (51%); DAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP VISA INC (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AT&T INC (51%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992



400 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Competition, the Japanese Way

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The analytic viewpoint in "A Lower Gear for Japan's Auto Makers" (Aug. 30) might be reconsidered. Consider the conclusion that flat growth may make lifetime employment, a pillar of worker loyalty, untenable. From an American perspective, a threat to the lifetime contract is at least plausible. A leveling in demand for autos in the United States is only one in many volatile market swings. 
 But we need to try to see the subject through Japanese eyes. Domestic Japanese demand is indeed significantly more stable, but to focus on that would simply perpetuate the American bias. No, the phenomenon that reflects Japanese practice is a capacity to adapt. Lifetime employment is perfectly amenable to zero growth, if the whole system adapts. Whether the Japanese will succeed this time, only future history will reveal. But the record makes clear how fundamental is adaptability in the Japanese success.
The article also suggests that the Japanese may respond to current problems by beginning to compete on technology. American auto companies, sadly, have not always been able to envision their industry as one driven by technology; corporate finance and individual salesmanship seem to be a good bit more popular as organizing principles. But the Japanese have practically redefined autos as a technology-driven industry. We cannot accurately say they will shift to competing on technology.
Competition itself is defined in dramatically different ways. In the United States, wishing a business competitor ill is simply part of standard economic warfare. In Japan, commercial contention is, if anything, more intense. But getting ahead means doing the best possible work. The emphasis is productive, not destructive. And the welfare of all is integral to the formula. If a company gets into trouble, competitors may even help. Japan manages to have the advantages of both intense competition and ties among fellow voyagers on the economic boat.
 
DAVID ALLEN
Cambridge, Mass., Sept. 3
 
David Allen is a fellow at the Center for Business and Goverment at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, DAVID JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1992

 
