

401 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Perseverance Pays Off for a State Senate Challenger

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: YONKERS, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Andrea Stewart-Cousins vividly remembers the simple yet sage advice her ailing mother dispensed a few years ago, when Ms. Stewart-Cousins first flirted with the idea of running against one of New York's most influential Republicans for his State Senate seat.
 ''She looked at me and said, 'If you're up at bat, you might as well swing,' '' Ms. Stewart-Cousins recalled. 
Her mother, Beryl Stewart, died in August 2004, a few months before Ms. Stewart-Cousins lost her first bid for the Senate seat long held by Nicholas A. Spano, falling just 18 votes short. That her mother did not live to see her beat Mr. Spano, whom she bested by 1,800 votes, is a bitter note in an otherwise sweet victory, Ms. Stewart-Cousins said. 
 Mr. Spano, the scion of a Westchester family steeped in politics, cautiously conceded the race on Thursday, calling Ms. Stewart-Cousins the ''apparent victor.'' Though a survey of voting machines was completed on Wednesday, Mr. Spano noted that 4,300 paper ballots had not been opened; still, he acknowledged that the result would most likely remain unchanged once these ballots are counted. At one point, he referred to Ms. Stewart-Cousins, a Democrat, as ''senator-elect.''
 Republican lawyers said they would allow election officials to count the unopened ballots without interference, averting a repeat of what happened two years ago, when challenges of the results in the race went on for three months.
 At a rally Thursday afternoon, Ms. Stewart-Cousins told supporters, ''We have come a long way from an 18-vote barricade to an 1,800-vote path to reform that stretches all the way to Albany.''
 Mr. Spano, 53, was the only incumbent in the 212-seat Legislature to lose his race this year, the first time since 1932 and 1934 that the Democratic Party won State Senate seats in back-to-back elections. (Democrats took three seats in 2004.)
 ''There was a trend that we were bucking this year,'' said Mr. Spano, a 28-year veteran of the Legislature. ''A trend that said, 'Throw the bums out,' and a trend, at the time, of 'we're not happy with the way the Republican Party has been running this nation,' and of course that contributed'' to the loss. 
 Another explanation lies in the shifting demographics in Westchester County, where the number of registered Democrats has increased 62 percent since 1998. 
 In this State Senate district, which includes most of Yonkers and most of Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant, political analysts say that independent voters have lately dropped their longtime support of Republicans for candidates who advocate change and openness in government, as Ms. Stewart-Cousins does.
 Andrea Stewart was born in a public housing project in Manhattan in 1950. As a child, she suffered from asthma so severe that her mother learned how to inject her with adrenaline for fear she would not make it to the emergency room during attacks. Her father, Robert Stewart, who was awarded a Purple Heart and Bronze Star during World War II, fixed teletypes for Western Electric for 20 years and then went on to repair subway cars for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 She grew up in the Bronx as the younger of two children, and is the first in her family to venture into politics. 
 She met her husband, Tom Cousins, when they both worked in the marketing department at New York Telephone. They moved to Yonkers in 1979, months before a federal desegregation lawsuit exposed the city's racial tensions. Following the path of hundreds of other black families who were trading the Bronx for southern Westchester, the couple settled in a townhouse just off Shonnard Terrace, a diverse community in western Yonkers.
 ''That's the vision of Yonkers I've always had,'' Ms. Stewart-Cousins said, ''so I was very surprised when I realized that had we moved north of the area where we moved to, it would have been all white, and if we had moved south, it would have been all black.''
 Ms. Stewart-Cousins worked as a journalist, a personnel manager and a teacher in the Yonkers public schools before taking her first public post, as director of community affairs for the city, in 1992. In that role, she sought to bridge racial and economic divides -- one of the defining themes of her political career. 
 Ms. Stewart Cousins helped found Riverfest, an annual day of cultural activities that draws thousands of people to western Yonkers, home to most of the city's low-income and minority residents. She also helped draft an executive order that encouraged the city and its vendors to work with businesses owned by women and minorities, and she started an internship program for disabled youth at City Hall.
 In 1995, she was elected to the Westchester County Legislature. There Ms. Stewart-Cousins helped create the county's first human rights commission, fought successfully for a living-wage law and led a committee that investigated the county's child welfare department after a series of abuse cases.
 ''If something should work, I just can't understand and accept the fact that it just doesn't work, and I really can't understand why people won't try to fix it if it's broken,'' said Ms. Stewart-Cousins, a mother of three and grandmother of two. 
 She has not faced much scrutiny in her political career so far, largely because the county Legislature wields little power in the broader political arena. But in Albany the stakes will be higher.
 Ms. Stewart-Cousins has an easy smile and a glass-half-full attitude that can be remarkably disarming. One of her closest friends, Symra Brandon, whom she helped elect to the City Council in 1991, calls this mollifying demeanor ''Andrea's secret weapon.''
 ''When there's an issue going on and there's some controversy, she always finds the good in it,'' said Ms. Brandon, who left the City Council in 2004. ''When you're out there ranting and raving, she's able to focus on the common ground and get everybody together to get things done.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas A. Spano, second from right, gathered with his family in his Yonkers office before conceding his State Senate seat yesterday. Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who lost to him two years ago, is 1,800 votes ahead. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); BALLOTS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%) Biographical Information; Election Results

PERSON: Fernanda Santos; Andrea Stewart-Cousins; Nicholas A (Sen) Spano

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



402 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: City's Unemployment Rate Falls To Its Lowest Level in 30 Years

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate fell to 4.1 percent in October, its lowest level in the 30 years that the current method of measuring joblessness has been used, the State Department of Labor said yesterday. 
 Sustained hiring in several industries has reduced the number of city residents looking for work to 155,100, or about half as many as there were just four years ago, the department reported. The 4.5 percent unemployment rate reported for September matched a 30-year low.
 The number of city residents with jobs has risen by 47,700 since October 2005, a gain that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cited as evidence that his administration's economic strategy ''continues to spur tremendous growth in all five boroughs.'' 
 Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the latest employment figures reflected the fact that ''at the moment, everything's pointing in the same direction, and that is strength.''
 New York State's unemployment rate fell to 4 percent, from 4.4 percent in September, matching its lowest level in 30 years, the Labor Department said.
 Even though the city still has not replaced all the jobs lost after the last recession began in 2001, residents have found work, even if they have had to commute out of the city to find it, said Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization. 
 ''New Yorkers seem to be better at finding jobs for themselves,'' said Mr. Malanga, who estimated that the number of jobs in the city would not reach its pre-9/11 high until mid-2007.
 But James A. Parrott, chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal watchdog group, said the unemployment rate was not as significant as it once was because jobs do not offer the security they once did.
 ''People are employed, but they may not be employed with the same pay and benefits and security that they used to have,'' Mr. Parrott said.
 The unemployment rate also fails to capture all of the people who have given up looking for work, said Robert W. Walsh, the city's commissioner of small business services. 
 ''There is a concentration of people in particular neighborhoods who are no longer looking for jobs,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''One of our challenges when we have a tight labor market is to re-engage people who are not looking for work to come out and find jobs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LIBERALISM (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); CONSERVATISM (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%) Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



403 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Jailed Freelance Journalist Loses Request for Rehearing 

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
A federal appeals court has denied a request for a rehearing from a freelance video journalist and blogger who has been jailed for three months for refusing to cooperate with a grand jury investigation of a violent anticapitalist protest. 
 The decision Wednesday by a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals means that the blogger, Josh Wolf, could be kept in jail until July, when the term of the grand jury expires, said his lawyer, Martin Garbus.
If that happens, Mr. Wolf, who has served 88 days, will be the longest-incarcerated journalist in recent American history, according to the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press. Vanessa Leggett, a freelance journalist from Houston, served 168 days in 2001 and 2002 for refusing to surrender information about a murder case.
 Federal prosecutors have sought to force Mr. Wolf, 24, to testify about a July 2005 protest in San Francisco timed to correspond with a Group of Eight conference of world economic leaders in Scotland. Mr. Wolf videotaped the protest, following anarchists who eventually clashed with police officers. An officer was injured and some property was damaged when a smoke bomb or a firework was put under a police car. 
 Mr. Wolf was subpoenaed this year by federal prosecutors considering charges of attempted arson in the case. They asked him to testify and turn over all of his video, but he refused, saying he had to protect the identities of those on the tape. 
 He was jailed in August. In September, Mr. Wolf was granted bail but returned to jail when bail was revoked by a panel of the Ninth Circuit Court. In October, Mr. Garbus petitioned for a hearing of the full court, arguing that ''the right of a reporter to conduct legal newsgathering activities without fear'' was at issue. 
 On Wednesday, the court denied that petition.
 Mr. Wolf has attracted some high-profile supporters, including the Society of Professional Journalists, which has contributed to his defense fund. On Thursday, Lucie Morillon, a spokeswoman for Reporters Without Borders, an international press freedom organization, called the decision to hold Mr. Wolf ''absurd and unjust.'' 
 ''Even if he's not an experienced journalist with 20 years behind him, he wants to protect his sources, and it's a decision we respect and support,'' Mr. Morillon said. 
 Mr. Wolf did sell some of the video of the protest to local television and posted other parts on his Web site, joshwolf.net. 
 Mr. Garbus said he had offered prosecutors the full tape in exchange for his client's release and exclusion from grand jury testimony. 
 Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, said his office had been consistent in asking for both the tape and the testimony. Mr. Wolf's mother, Liz Wolf-Spada, said in an e-mail message, ''Every hope that is destroyed leaves me feeling like a deflated balloon.''
 Mr. Garbus said his client, held in a federal prison in Dublin, Calif., would serve as long as he had to. ''He's not going to give up,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); BAIL (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MURDER (73%); JUDGES (73%); RIOTS (72%); ARSON (72%); TRENDS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HISTORY (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom of the Press; Decisions and Verdicts; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Group of Eight; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%)

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Josh Wolf

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (70%) San Francisco (Calif); Scotland

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



404 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airstrikes on Increase To Aid NATO in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

 BODY:
The Air Force has conducted more than 2,000 airstrikes in Afghanistan over the past six months, a sharp increase in bombing that reflects the growing demand for American air cover since NATO has assumed a larger ground combat role, Air Force officials said.
 The intensifying air campaign has focused on southern Afghanistan, where NATO units, primarily from Britain, Canada and the Netherlands, as well as American Special Forces have been engaging in the heaviest and most frequent ground combat with Taliban rebels since the invasion five years ago.
The NATO forces are mostly operating without heavy armor or artillery support, and as Taliban resistance has continued, more air support has been used to compensate for the lightness of the units, Air Force officials said. Most of the strikes have come during ''close air support'' missions, where the bombers patrol the area and respond to calls from ground units in combat rather than performing planned strikes.
 On a recent 11-hour mission that included a reporter for The New York Times, a B-1 bomber circled at 20,000 feet, responding to radio calls from American and Canadian troops who asked the plane to use its radar to watch for insurgent forces and to be prepared to drop bombs. 
 On a separate mission last week, a bomber dropped its entire payload of eight 2,000-pound bombs and six 500-pound bombs after ground units called for help, Air Force officials said. One B-1 pilot, Lt. Col. Tim Schepper, said that when troops called for airstrikes, ''There are times when you can hear the gunfire and R.P.G.'s over the radio in the background, and that's when you know you have helped keep them alive.'' An R.P.G. is a rocket-propelled grenade.
 To carry out the heavier mission load, the Air Force's entire complement of B-1 bombers was shifted over the summer from the British air base at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean to a Middle Eastern airfield closer to Afghanistan. The new arrangement shortens the flying time to Afghanistan by two hours. 
 Air Force officials said they were prohibited from disclosing the location because of sensitivities by the host country about disclosing the extent of its cooperation with the American military.
 Lt. Gen. David Richards, the British commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, has promised to win support among Afghan civilians by focusing on economic development and avoiding combat. But the resurgence of the Taliban has made that difficult. NATO forces have established numerous small bases and sent out extended patrols with little or no heavy armor and artillery. NATO has also lacked a reserve force that can be shifted quickly to hot spots, though Poland has promised to send troops to fill that role.
 The 2,095 attacks by American aircraft since June is many times greater than the number of airstrikes in Iraq, where the terrain and nature of the conflict are less susceptible to bombing campaigns. There have been only 88 attacks by American aircraft in Iraq since June, according to Air Force figures. Unlike in Afghanistan, insurgents in Iraq are largely in urban areas and do not often mass in groups large enough to warrant the use of airstrikes, Air Force commanders said.
 The increase in total munitions dropped has also been substantial. This year in Afghanistan, American aircraft have dropped 987 bombs and fired more than 146,000 cannon rounds and bullets in strafing runs, more than was expended in both categories from the beginning of the American-led invasion in 2001 through 2004, the Air Force said. During those years, a total of 848 bombs and just over 119,000 bullets were used by aircraft, according to Air Force figures.
 On the B-1 flight last week that included a reporter, Colonel Schepper and his two-man crew received a radio call from a Canadian soldier at an isolated base near the town of Tarin Kowt, who asked the aircraft to stand by for potential attacks on insurgent forces. A few hours later, the bomber crew received a similar radio message from an American Special Forces soldier, who warned that Taliban attacks on his position had been frequent. ''We've had contact every day this week,'' said the soldier, who could not be identified under military rules. ''As sure as the day is long, we'll have more.''
 The surge in recent airstrikes coincided with NATO moving into the south over the summer, a period when Taliban attacks also increased. Much of the bombing in September was conducted during several major NATO ground operations against concentrations of Taliban fighters. But the number of air attacks has stayed high, reaching 397 in October, and is expected to remain at comparable levels this month, according to Air Force commanders.
 In Afghanistan the increased use of air power has also come at a cost in casualties among allied forces and civilians. In September, an American A-10 attack jet mistakenly opened fire on Canadian troops southwest of Kandahar, killing one and wounding dozens more.
 Later that month, a nighttime NATO air attack involving an AC-130 gunship killed 31 civilians, most of whom were shepherds, a joint NATO and Afghan investigation concluded recently. The civilians were killed as they fled their tents with their wives and children after a NATO bomb struck a nearby compound, killing 20 Taliban fighters. There have also been increased reports of damage or destruction to mosques and other civilian buildings and property.
 In addition to dropping bombs, Air Force jets are increasingly being called on to provide ground forces with intelligence about possible insurgent forces in their vicinity, using infrared cameras, radar and other surveillance equipment.
 While the B-1 has proven useful in Afghanistan because of its large fuel tanks and bomb-carrying capacity, the planes' 30-year-old electronics have sometimes been a liability.
 On the recent 11-hour mission, the B-1 crew had to inform ground troops several times that the plane's radar could not deliver the detailed picture of ground activity they wanted and that many fighter jets and other aircraft equipped with more modern surveillance equipment could provide. 
 During the mission, one American soldier called up to say that his unit was holding a memorial ceremony for a soldier who had been killed several days earlier in combat. Trying to detect any possible ambushes of the service, he asked whether the plane could see whether there were any ''military-age males'' with weapons nearby -- a request beyond the capabilities of the B-1's electronics, the crew told him. So he requested that the B-1 perform a ''show of force,'' a low-level pass meant to frighten any fighters nearby. 
 Colonel Schepper dropped the jet steeply from 20,000 feet to around 8,000 feet and roared over the soldiers' position, releasing flares to heighten the effect of the fly-by.
 On the plane's radio, the soldier voiced a simple response: ''Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 10 about fighting in Afghanistan misstated the rank of David Richards, the British military officer who commands NATO troops in Afghanistan. (The error was repeated in articles on Oct. 15, Nov. 14, Nov. 17 and last Wednesday.) He is a full general, not a lieutenant general. A NATO spokesman, Lt. Col. Nick Grant-Thorold, pointed out the error in an e-mail message on Sunday, saying that General Richards had been promoted on Oct. 7, a day after NATO took over command of eastern Afghanistan from American forces.
An article on Oct. 10 about fighting in Afghanistan misstated the rank of David Richards, the British military officer who commands NATO troops in Afghanistan. (The error was repeated in articles on Oct. 15, Nov. 14, Nov. 17 and last Wednesday.) He is a full general, not a lieutenant general. A NATO spokesman, Lt. Col. Nick Grant-Thorold, pointed out the error in an e-mail message on Sunday, saying that General Richards had been promoted on Oct. 7, a day after NATO took over command of eastern Afghanistan from American forces.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Personnel inspecting a B-1 bomber recently after it returned from a mission over Afghanistan. The Middle Eastern air base was not identified. (Photo by David S. Cloud/The New York Times)Chart: ''A Sharp Rise''The Air Force has stepped up airstrikes in Afghanistan in an effort to quell the insurgency there.Graph tracks number of airstrikes in Afghanistan and Iraq since 2005.(Source by Air Force)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US AIR FORCE (93%) Taliban (Afghan Group); North Atlantic Treaty Organization

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: David S Cloud

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



405 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: Right-of-Center Guru Goes Wide With the Gospel of Small Government

BYLINE: By JASON DEPARLE

DATELINE: BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

 BODY:
Lawrence W. Reed is one of those people with so much passion for an unusual line of work that he invented a new occupation, and it has helped shape the conservative movement from here to the Himalayas.
 Mr. Reed runs a conservative think tank school. Twice a year, ideological allies from across the globe travel to his program at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy in Midland, Mich., to study the tricks of the idea-peddling trade. Policy institutes have been central to a national organizing strategy that has long won the right a reputation for savvy, and state-level versions are growing in number and clout.
Pushing causes like lower taxes, less spending and school choice plans, they have offered conservatives a base of influence independent of electoral politics. Indeed, after the Republican losses in the midterm elections, many conservatives said this carefully tended world -- of research organizations, single-interest groups, foundations and publications -- was vital to the movement's revival. 
 Mr. Reed has nurtured so many state policy groups that he has been called the movement's Johnny Appleseed. But a competing metaphor is sometimes invoked, that of a restaurant chain. His school is part of an extensive system of support, a national back office of sorts, that allows even policy novices to produce abundant, salable fare. 
 Consider the experience here in Kentucky, where the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions has made enough noise for the state's largest newspaper to call it a ''conservative propaganda mill.'' Its founder, Christopher J. Derry, was a sales executive with no public-policy background when he attended Mr. Reed's school three years ago. He left with access to everything from off-the-shelf speeches and papers to management software.
 ''This is like a franchise,'' Mr. Derry said. ''I saw that I could recreate what the other state groups are doing.''
 No one is more central to this replicating effort than Mr. Reed, who combines libertarian ardor with a demeanor so earnest it approaches guilelessness. He said he first felt called to ''the liberty movement'' as a 12-year-old watching the ''The Sound of Music,'' and was a high school sophomore when he burned his first Soviet flag.
 He attributes the Republican losses in last week's election to party's failure to cling to its small-government philosophy and argues the drift shows the need for groups like his. ''This underscores the importance of investing in ideas first and foremost, because politicians will almost always disappoint,'' Mr. Reed said.

From Michigan to Mongolia
 As a full-throated advocate of capitalism -- the jagged, creative-destructive kind -- Mr. Reed says he is used to being called a corporate apologist who would despoil the environment and afflict the poor. But he sees himself as a defender of free markets and free men, claiming among his major role models Thomas Clarkson, a 19th-century British abolitionist whom Mr. Reed regards as the world's first think-tank entrepreneur. ''Clarkson championed our movement's overarching principle: If there's anything certain in human affairs, it's that liberty will prevail,'' he said.
 From Midland, Mr. Reed runs Mackinac (pronounced MAK-in-aw), the largest of the right's state-level policy institutes. The center started its training program eight years ago, and it has alumni in nearly every state and 37 countries, from Uruguay to Nepal. Among them was a Mongolian who went on to become prime minister, putting his free-market training to work by privatizing the national herd of yaks.
 When the Mackinac Center was founded in 1987, there were just three other conservative state-level policy institutes. Now there are 48, in 42 states, joined in an association called the State Policy Network. At least three former Mackinac presidents are now in the House, Representatives Mike Pence of Indiana, Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Tom Tancredo of Colorado, all Republicans.
 Collectively, the groups have pushed for cuts in health and welfare programs, constitutional limits on state spending, and expanded school choice programs. They have opposed what they call burdensome health, safety, and environmental regulations and increases in the minimum wage. 
 In labeling the institutes (and himself), Mr. Reed prefers the term ''free market'' over ''conservative,'' since most of the groups stress economics over social issues.
 In Colorado, the Independence Institute has been a leading force behind a constitutional spending cap called the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. In Arizona, the Goldwater Institute has championed a school-choice law that sends 22,500 children a year to private schools. The Texas Public Policy Foundation helped pass a law to end what the group said were excessive lawsuits.
 ''In terms of generating and popularizing ideas, I think they've been very effective,'' said Carl Helstrom, executive director of the JM Foundation, one of the movement's major donors.
 Some critics say the groups' support for unfettered markets promotes a form of social Darwinism.
 ''Their philosophy encourages selfishness and greed,'' said Iris J. Lav, who runs the State Fiscal Analysis Initiative, a network of 29 liberal state-level groups organized in part as a countervailing force. ''If you have problems, they don't care -- just too bad.''
 Greed is the rare accusation that rankles Mr. Reed.
 ''They think if you're pushing free markets there must be something in it for you,'' he said. ''It speaks to their ignorance.''
 Mr. Reed was raised in western Pennsylvania, where his father ran a plumbing-supply store and both parents ignored politics. The persecution of the von Trapp family in ''The Sound of Music'' grabbed his attention; the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, in 1968, sent him running to his first protest. He was 14.

Academia to Politics
 After earning a master's degree at Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, he taught economics at Northwood University in Midland, but academia left him restless. In 1982, Mr. Reed, then 29, unsuccessfully ran for Congress and got to know an ambitious state senator named John Engler.
 Both were Republicans who thought Michigan needed its own version of the Heritage Foundation, a Washington policy institute that was influencing the Reagan presidency. A few years later, when such a group formed, Mr. Engler helped recruit Mr. Reed to run it.
 With $20,000 in seed money, the Mackinac Center was started in 1987 as a bare-bones affair, but quickly proved troublesome to Gov. James J. Blanchard, a Democrat. The Mackinac Center warned that one of Mr. Blanchard's signature programs, the nation's first prepaid college tuition plan, would need a state bailout. Amid fears about its financial health, the program soon suspended enrollment. 
 After Mr. Engler unseated Mr. Blanchard in 1990, Mackinac had a friend at the top. Acting on the center's advice, Mr. Engler sold a state-owned insurance company for $250 million. But when Mr. Engler created tax breaks to lure businesses to Michigan, Mr. Reed, clinging to his free-market views, attacked them as ''corporate welfare.''
 The Mackinac Center has often battled the Michigan Education Association, a teachers' union. When the union opposed privatizing support services, like school meals and security, a Mackinac employee monitored the union parking lot and discovered that it used private contractors like the ones it was opposing.
 ''We don't just write papers, we do stakeouts,'' Mr. Reed said.
 Many of the state-level groups were inspired by larger Washington counterparts, like the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation. While there are no formal ties, many informal bonds have been formed through overlapping donors, revolving employees and occasional joint projects.
 A key supporter of the state-level movement was Thomas A. Roe, a South Carolina industrialist and Heritage Foundation donor who founded the South Carolina Policy Council, and helped finance the other state-level groups. Mr. Roe died in 2000, but the Roe Foundation gives each of the 48 groups annual grants of $15,000 to $30,000.
 With a budget of more than $4 million and a staff of 32, the Mackinac Center is more than five times larger than the average state-level institute, some of which consist of little more than a person and a fax machine. Most groups do not disclose donations they receive.

A Culture of Mutual Aid
 To maximize the groups' clout, Mr. Roe encouraged them to share their work, and a culture of mutual aid has taken hold. ''There's a joke that you don't have to reinvent the wheel, you can steal somebody else's wheel and use it,'' said Mr. Helstrom, the JM Foundation executive.
 Mr. Derry of the Bluegrass Institute has taken that advice to heart. He was working at an asset management firm in 2003 when a Bowling Green tax increase got under his skin. A few months later, he was sitting in Mr. Reed's school, wondering whether to quit his $400,000 job to start a shoestring policy group.
 ''You're going to have to decide what's more important,'' Mr. Reed said as the course wound down. ''Making a lot of money or championing liberty.''
 ''I was hooked,'' Mr. Derry said.
 He said part of the appeal was the network of groups ready to help. Three conservative foundations offered grants totaling $80,000, but most of what Mr. Derry calls ''franchise'' help came in other ways.
 Mr. Reed has a standard speech he calls the ''Seven Principles of Sound Public Policy.'' Mr. Derry added the words ''for Kentucky'' and took it on the fund-raising trail. The Evergreen Freedom Foundation, in Olympia, Wash., is known for its guide to paring state budgets. Mr. Derry distributed it under the Bluegrass name. A Maryland paper on excessive lawsuits, republished in North Carolina, gained a third life as ''Preparing for Tort Reform in Kentucky.'' 
 ''People were so helpful, I couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Derry said. ''It jump-started me by a couple of years.''
 The Bluegrass Institute quickly made a mark by fighting with the state's governor, Ernie Fletcher, a Republican, over a tax plan he called revenue-neutral and Mr. Derry called a tax increase. To make a point about pork-barrel spending, his group sent an intern into the Capitol dressed like a pig. 
 Depending on one's perspective, the Bluegrass Institute view of liberty can seem either steadfast or extreme. Walking to his car after a recent event, Jim Waters, the policy director at the institute, mentioned how he had recently survived a head-on collision thanks to his car's airbags. A few moments later, describing the institute's priorities, he said the Bluegrass Institute was fighting tougher seat-belt laws, which he called an intrusion on liberty. Car safety laws ''did save my life,'' he conceded when asked about the apparent contradiction.
 At an institute event in Bowling Green, an audience member chided the group for opposing efforts to ban smoking in restaurants. ''I watched my mother die of cancer,'' the person said.
 ''We hate smoking as much as you do,'' Mr. Derry replied. ''But we hate government even more.''
 The Bluegrass Institute has a budget of about $400,000, but recently laid off a policy analyst, leaving a staff of five. Still, even critics say the group has leveraged modest resources into a growing presence.
 ''They get airplay,'' said Susan Weston, a longtime advocate for Kentucky public schools. ''They get their op-eds published. They've built an e-mail list.''
 True to his promise of continuing help, Mr. Reed made a two-day visit to Kentucky last year. Speaking to potential donors in Louisville, he likened Mr. Derry to Benjamin Franklin.
 After the event, Mr. Derry marveled once more at all the support he had received.
 Mr. Reed said, ''You're our comrade in arms.'' 
 Mr. Derry, replied, ''It's about liberty.'' 
 Mr. Reed said, ''This is a missionary movement.'' 
 Next: Conservative foreign institutes.

The second article in this series will examine conservative foreign institutes, which have strengthened property rights in Peru, driven privatization of state assets in Egypt, battled unions in France and cut taxes in Lithuania.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about conservative policy institutes referred incorrectly to Representatives Mike Pence of Indiana, Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Tom Tancredo of Colorado, all Republicans. They are former presidents of conservative policy institutes, but not of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy in Midland, Mich. 
 The article also referred imprecisely to the timing of foundation grants to the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions. They began in the institute's second year, not when it was founded.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE TEACHER -- Lawrence W. Reed runs a conservative policy institute that claims acolytes from around the world. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
ONE OF THE STUDENTS -- Christopher J. Derry of the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions, which critics have called a ''propaganda mill.'' (Photo by Allen Bryant for The New York Times)
Brooke L. Rollins, president of the Texas Public Policy Foundation, which helped pass a law limiting lawsuits. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)
Lynn Harsh of the Evergreen Freedom Foundation, in Olympia, Wash., known for its guide to curbing state spending. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)
Jon Caldera, president of the Independence Institute, a Colorado group established after the Mackinac model. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 Lovett C. Peters, a founding member of the Pioneer Institute for Public Policy Research, based in Boston. (Photo by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)Chart: ''From Sea to Shining Sea''The conservative public policy movement extends into almost every state, where groups have opposed programs that include environmental protections and minimum wage increases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (70%); SCHOOL CHOICE (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%) United States Politics and Government; Surveys and Series; Biographical Information; States (US); Education and Schools; Taxation; Finances; United States Politics and Government; Budgets and Budgeting; Company and Organization Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Mackinac Center for Public Policy; State Policy Network

PERSON: Jason Deparle; Lawrence W Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); HIMALAYAS (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MONGOLIA (79%) Midland (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



406 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3620 words

PERSON: Milton Friedman 

HEADLINE: Milton Friedman, the Champion Of Free Markets, Is Dead at 94

BYLINE: By HOLCOMB B. NOBLE; Louis Uchitelle and Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Milton Friedman, the grandmaster of free-market economic theory in the postwar era and a prime force in the movement of nations toward less government and greater reliance on individual responsibility, died yesterday. He was 94 and lived in San Francisco.
 His death was confirmed by Robert Fanger, a spokesman for the Milton and Rose D. Friedman Foundation in Indianapolis.
 Conservative and liberal colleagues alike viewed Mr. Friedman, a Nobel laureate, as one of the 20th century's leading economic scholars, on a par with giants like John Maynard Keynes and Paul Samuelson. 
 Flying the flag of economic conservatism, Mr. Friedman led the postwar challenge to the hallowed theories of Lord Keynes, the British economist who maintained that governments had a duty to help capitalistic economies through periods of recession and to prevent boom times from exploding into high inflation. 
 In Mr. Friedman's view, government had the opposite obligation: to keep its hands off the economy, to let the free market do its work. He was a spiritual heir to Adam Smith, the 18th-century founder of the science of economics and proponent of laissez-faire: that government governs best which governs least. 
 The only economic lever that Mr. Friedman would allow government to use was the one that controlled the supply of money -- a monetarist view that had gone out of favor when he embraced it in the 1950s. He went on to record a signal achievement, predicting the unprecedented combination of rising unemployment and rising inflation that came to be called stagflation. His work earned him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1976.
 Rarely, colleagues said, did anyone have such impact on his own profession and on government. Though he never served officially in the halls of power, he was around them, as an adviser and theorist. 
 ''Among economic scholars, Milton Friedman had no peer,'' Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said yesterday. ''The direct and indirect influences of his thinking on contemporary monetary economics would be difficult to overstate.'' 
 Professor Friedman also fueled the rise of the Chicago School of economics, a conservative group within the department of economics at the University of Chicago. He and his colleagues became a counterforce to their liberal peers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, influencing close to a dozen American winners of the Nobel in economics.
 It was not only Mr. Friedman's antistatist and free-market views that held sway over his colleagues. There was also his willingness to create a place where independent thinkers could be encouraged to take unconventional stands as long as they were prepared to do battle to support them. 
 ''Most economics departments are like country clubs,'' said James J. Heckman, a Chicago faculty member and Nobel laureate. ''But at Chicago you are only as good as your last paper.'' 
 Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said of Mr. Friedman in an interview Tuesday: ''From a longer-term point of view, it's his academic achievements which will have lasting import. But I would not dismiss the profound impact he has already had on the American public's view.'' 
 To Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Friedman came along at an opportune time. The Keynesian consensus among economists, he said -- one that had worked well from the 1930s -- could not explain the stagflation of the 1970s. 
 But he also said that Mr. Friedman had made a broader political argument: that you have to have economic freedom to have political freedom.
 Mr. Friedman had a gift for communicating complicated ideas in simple and lucid ways, and it served him well as the author or co-author of more than a dozen books, as a columnist for Newsweek from 1966 to 1983 and even as the star of a public television series. He was a bridge between the academic and popular worlds, and his broader impact stemmed in large part from the fact that he was preaching a gospel of capitalism that fit neatly into American self-perceptions. He was pushing on an open door. 

A Staunch Libertarian
 As a libertarian, Mr. Friedman advocated legalizing drugs and generally opposed public education and the state's power to license doctors, car drivers and others. He was criticized for those views, but he stood by them, arguing that prohibiting, regulating or licensing human behavior either does not work or creates inefficient bureaucracies. 
 Mr. Friedman insisted that unimpeded private competition produced better results than government systems. ''Try talking French with someone who studied it in public school,'' he argued, ''then with a Berlitz graduate.'' 
 Once, when accused of going overboard in his antistatism, he said, ''In every generation, there's got to be somebody who goes the whole way, and that's why I believe as I do.'' 
 In the long period of prosperity after World War II, when Keynesian economics was riding high in the West, Mr. Friedman alone warned of trouble ahead, asserting that policies based on Keynesian theory were part of the problem. 
 Even as he was being dismissed as an economic ''flat-earther,'' he predicted in the 1960s that the end of the boom was at hand. Expect unemployment to grow, he said, and inflation to rise, at the same time. The prediction was borne out in the 1970s. It was Paul Samuelson who labeled the phenomenon stagflation. 
 Mr. Friedman's analysis and prediction were regarded as a stunning intellectual accomplishment and contributed to his earning the Nobel for his monetary theories. He was also cited for his analyses of consumer savings and of the causes of the Great Depression: he blamed the Federal Reserve, accusing it of bad monetary policy and saying it had bungled early chances for recovery. His prestige and that of the Chicago school soared, and his analysis of the Depression changed the way that the Fed thought about monetary policy. 
 Government leaders like President Ronald Reagan and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain were heavily influenced by his views. So was the quietly building opposition to communism within the East bloc. 
 As the end of the century approached, Professor Friedman said events had made his views seem only more valid than when he had first formed them. One event was the fall of communism. In an introduction to the 50th-anniversary edition of Friedrich A. Hayek's book predicting totalitarian consequences from collectivist planning, ''The Road to Serfdom,'' Mr. Friedman wrote it was clear that ''progress could be achieved only in an order in which government activity is limited primarily to establishing the framework with which individuals are free to pursue their own objectives.''
 ''The free market is the only mechanism that has ever been discovered for achieving participatory democracy,'' he said. 
 Professor Friedman was acknowledged to be a brilliant statistician and logician. To his critics, however, he sometimes pushed his data too far. To them, the debate over the advantages or disadvantages of an unregulated free market was far from over.
 Milton Friedman was born in Brooklyn on July 31, 1912, the last of four children and only son of Jeno S. Friedman and Sarah Landau Friedman. His parents worked briefly in New York sweatshops, then moved their family to Rahway, N.J., where they opened a clothing store. 
 Mr. Friedman's father died in his son's senior year at Rahway High School. Young Milton later waited on tables and clerked in stores to supplement a scholarship he had earned at Rutgers University. He entered Rutgers in 1929, the year the stock market crashed and the Depression began.
 Mr. Friedman attributed his success to ''accidents'': the immigration of his teen-age parents from Czechoslovakia, enabling him to be an American and not the citizen of a Soviet-bloc state; the skill of a high-school geometry teacher who showed him a connection between Keats's ''Ode to a Grecian Urn'' and the Pythagorean theorem, allowing him to see mathematical beauty; the receipt of a scholarship that enabled him to attend Rutgers and there have Arthur F. Burns and Homer Jones as teachers. 
 He said Mr. Burns, who later became chairman of the Federal Reserve, instilled in him a passion for scientific integrity and accuracy in economics; Mr. Jones interested him in monetary policy and a graduate school career at Chicago. 
 In his first economic-theory class at Chicago, he was the beneficiary of another accident -- the fact that his last name began with an ''F.'' The class was seated alphabetically, and he was placed next to Rose Director, a master's-degree candidate from Portland, Ore. That seating arrangement shaped his whole life, he said. He married Ms. Director six years later. And she, after becoming an important economist in her own right, helped Mr. Friedman form his ideas and maintain his intellectual rigor. 
 After he became something of a celebrity, Mr. Friedman said, many people became reluctant to challenge him directly. ''They can't come right out and say something stinks,'' he said. ''Rose can.'' 
 In 1998, he and his wife published a memoir, ''Two Lucky People'' (University of Chicago Press), in which they reveled in ''having intellectual children throughout the world.''
 His wife is among his survivors. They also include a son, David, and a daughter, Janet Martel, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. 

A Fateful Class
 That fateful class at the University of Chicago also introduced him to Jacob Viner, regarded as a great theorist and historian of economic thought. Professor Viner convinced Mr. Friedman that economic theory need not be a mere set of disjointed propositions but rather could be developed into a logical and coherent prescription for action. 
 Mr. Friedman won a fellowship to do his doctoral work at Columbia, where the emphasis was on statistics and empirical evidence. He studied there with Simon Kuznets, another American Nobel laureate. The two turned Mr. Friedman's thesis into a book, ''Income From Independent Professional Practice.'' It was the first of more than a dozen books that Mr. Friedman wrote alone or with others.
 It was also the first of many ''Friedman controversies.'' One finding of the book was that the American Medical Association exerted monopolistic pressure on the incomes of doctors; as a result, the authors said, patients were unable to reap the benefits of lower fees from any real price competition among doctors. The A.M.A., after obtaining a galley copy of the book, challenged that conclusion and forced the publisher to delay publication. But the authors did not budge. The book was eventually published, unchanged.
 During the first two years of World War II, Mr. Friedman was an economist in the Treasury Department's division of taxation. ''Rose has never forgiven me for the part I played in devising and developing withholding for the income tax,'' he said. ''There is no doubt that it would not have been possible to collect the amount of taxes imposed during World War II without withholding taxes at the source. 
 ''But it is also true,'' he went on, ''that the existence of withholding has made it possible for taxes to be higher after the war than they otherwise could have been. So I have a good deal of sympathy for the view that, however necessary withholding may have been for wartime purposes, its existence has had some negative effects in the postwar period.'' 
 After the war, he returned to the University of Chicago, becoming a full professor in 1948 and commencing his campaign against Keynesian economics. Robert M. Solow of M.I.T., a Nobel laureate who often disagreed with Mr. Friedman, called him one of ''the greatest debaters of all time.'' But his wisecracking style could infuriate opponents. 
 Mr. Samuelson, also of M.I.T., who was not above wisecracking himself, had a standard line in his economics classes that always brought down the house: ''Just because Milton Friedman says it doesn't mean that it's necessarily untrue.''
 But Professor Samuelson said he never joked in class unless he was serious -- that his friend and opponent was, in fact, often right when at first he sounded wrong. 
 Mr. Friedman's opposition to rent control after World War II, for example, incurred the wrath of many colleagues. They took it as an unpatriotic criticism of economic policies that had been successful in helping the nation mobilize for war. Later, Mr. Samuelson said, ''probably 98 percent of them would agree that he was right.'' 
 In the early 1950s, Mr. Friedman started flogging a ''decomposing horse,'' as Mrs. Thatcher's chief economic adviser, Alan Waters, later put it. The horse that most economists thought long dead was the monetarist theory that the supply of money in circulation and readily accessible in banks was the dominant force -- or in Mr. Friedman's view, the only force -- that should be used in shaping the economy. 
 In the 1963 book ''A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960,'' which he wrote with Anna Jacobson Schwartz, Mr. Friedman compiled statistics to buttress his theory that recessions, as well as the Great Depression, had been preceded by declines in the money supply. And it was an oversupply, he argued, that caused inflation.
 In the late 1960s, Mr. Friedman used his knowledge of empirical evidence and statistics to calculate that Keynesian government programs had the effect of constantly increasing the money supply, a practice that over time was seriously inflationary. 
 Paul Krugman, a Princeton University economist and Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, said Mr. Friedman then managed ''one of the decisive intellectual achievements of postwar economics,'' predicting the combination of rising unemployment and rising inflation that came to be called stagflation. 
 In this regard, his Nobel award cited his contribution to the now famous concept ''the natural rate of unemployment.'' Under this thesis, the unemployment rate cannot be driven below a certain level without provoking an acceleration in the inflation rate. Price inflation was linked to wage inflation, and wage inflation depended on the inflationary expectations of employers and workers in their bargaining.
 A spiral developed. Wages and prices rose until expectations came into line with reality, usually at the natural rate of unemployment. Once that rate is achieved, any attempt to drive down unemployment through expansionary government policies is inflationary, according to Mr. Friedman's thesis, which he unveiled in 1968. 
 For years economists have tried to pinpoint the elusive natural rate, without much success, particularly in recent years. 
 Mr. Friedman was right on the big economic issue of that time -- inflation. And his prescription -- to have the governors of the Federal Reserve System keep the money supply growing steadily without big fluctuations -- figured in the thinking of policy makers around the world in the 1980s.

A Retort to Kennedy
 Mr. Friedman also pursued his attack on Keynesianism in a more general way. He warned that a government allowed to regulate the economy could not be trusted to keep its hands off individual liberties.
 He had first been exposed to this line of attack through his association with Mr. Hayek, who was predicting in the early 1940s that communism would lead inevitably to totalitarianism and the crushing of individual rights. In an introduction to a 1971 German edition, Professor Friedman called Mr. Hayek's book ''a revelation particularly to the young men and women who had been in the armed forces during the war.''
 ''Their recent experience had enhanced their appreciation of the value and meaning of individual freedom,'' he wrote.
 In 1962, Mr. Friedman took on President John F. Kennedy's popular inaugural exhortation: ''Ask not what your country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your country.'' In an introduction to his classic book ''Capitalism and Freedom,'' a collection of his writings and lectures, he said President Kennedy had got it wrong: You should ask neither. 
 ''What your country can do for you,'' Mr. Friedman said, implies that the government is the patron, the citizen the ward; and ''what you can do for your country'' assumes that the government is the master, the citizen the servant. Rather, he said, you should ask, ''What I and my compatriots can do through government to help discharge our individual responsibilities, to achieve our several goals and purposes, and above all protect our freedom.'' 
 It was not that Mr. Friedman believed in no government. He is credited with devising the negative income tax, which in a modern variant -- the earned-income tax credit -- increases the incomes of the working poor. He also argued that government should give the poor vouchers to attend the private schools he thought superior to public ones. 
 In forums he would spar over the role of government with his more liberal adversaries, including John Kenneth Galbraith, who was also a longtime friend (and who died in April 2006). The two would often share a stage, presenting a study in contrasts as much visual as intellectual: Mr. Friedman stood 5 feet 3; Mr. Galbraith, 6 feet 8. 
 Though he had helped ignite the conservative rebellion after World War II, together with intellectuals like Russell Kirk, William F. Buckley Jr. and Ayn Rand, Mr. Friedman had little or no influence on the administrations of Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon. President Nixon, in fact, once described himself as a Keynesian. 
 It was frustrating period for Mr. Friedman. He said that during the Nixon years the talk was still of urban crises solvable only by government programs that he was convinced would make things worse, or of environmental problems produced by ''rapacious businessmen who were expected to discharge their social responsibility instead of simply operating their enterprises to make the most profit.'' 

Rising With Reagan
 But then, after the 1970s stagflation, with Keynesian tools seemingly broken or outmoded, and with Ronald Reagan headed for the White House, Mr. Friedman's hour arrived. His power and influence were acknowledged and celebrated in Washington. 
 With his wife, in 1978 he brought out a best-selling general-interest book, ''Free to Choose,'' and went on an 18-month tour, from Hong Kong to Ottumwa, Iowa, preaching that government regulation and interference in the free market was the stifling bane of modern society. The tour became the subject and Mr. Friedman the star of a 10-part PBS series, ''Free to Choose,'' in 1980. 
 In 1983, having retired from teaching, he became a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. Five years later he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Medal of Science.
 The economic expansion in the 1980s resulted from the Reagan administration's lowered tax rates and deregulation, Professor Friedman said. But then the tide turned again. The expansion, he argued, was halted when President George H. W. Bush imposed a ''reverse-Reaganomics'' tax increase. 
 What was worse, by the mid-1980s, as the finance and banking industries began undergoing upheavals and money began shifting unpredictably, Mr. Friedman's own monetarist predictions -- of what would happen to the economy and inflation as a result of specific increases in the money supply -- failed to hold up. Confidence in his monetarism theory waned. 
 Prof. Robert Solow of M.I.T., a Nobel laureate himself, and other liberal economists continued to raise questions about Mr. Friedman's theories: Did not President Reagan, and by extension Professor Friedman, they asked, revert to Keynesianism once in power? 
 ''The boom that lasted from 1982 to 1990 was engineered by the Reagan administration in a straightforward Keynesian way by rising spending and lowered taxes, a classic case of an expansionary budget deficit,'' Mr. Solow said. ''In fairness to Milton, however, it should be said that one of the reasons for his wanting a tax reduction was to force the spending cuts that he presumed would follow.'' Professor Samuelson said that ''Milton Friedman thought of himself as a man of science but was in fact more full of passion than he knew.''
 Mr. Friedman remained the guiding light to American conservatives. It was he, for example, who provided the economic theory behind ''prescriptions for action,'' as his onetime professor, Jacob Viner, put it, like the landslide Republican victory in the off-year Congressional elections of 1994. 
 By then Professor Friedman had grown into a giant of economics abroad as well. He was sharply criticized for his role in providing intellectual guidance on economic matters to the military regime in Chile that engineered a coup in the early 1970s against the democratically elected president, Salvador Allende. But for Mr. Friedman that was just a bump in the road. 
 In Vietnam, where the Constitution was amended in 1986 to guarantee the rights of private property, the writings of Mr. Friedman were circulated at the highest levels of government. ''Privatize,'' he told Chinese scholars at a meeting at Fudan University in Shanghai; and he told those in Moscow and elsewhere in Eastern Europe: ''Speed the conversion of state-run enterprises to private ownership.'' They did.
 Mr. Friedman had long since ceased to be called a flat-earther by anyone. ''What was really so important about him,'' said W. Allen Wallis, a former classmate and later faculty colleague at the University of Chicago, ''was his tremendous basic intelligence, his ingenuity, perseverance -- his way of getting to the bottom of things, of looking at them in a new way.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about the economist Milton Friedman referred incorrectly to the land from which his parents emigrated as teenagers. It was Carpatho-Ruthenia, at the time a province of Austria-Hungary and now part of Ukraine; it was not Czechoslovakia. (Carpatho-Ruthenia was part of Czechoslovakia during the two decades before World War II.) 
 The obituary also rendered incorrectly the title of a poem by John Keats that a teacher of Mr. Friedman's had drawn on in demonstrating the beauty of the Pythagorean theorem. It is ''Ode on a Grecian Urn'' -- not ''Ode to a Grecian Urn.''
An obituary on Nov. 17 about the economist Milton Friedman misstated the year in which his best-selling book ''Free to Choose: A Personal Statement,'' written with his wife, Rose Friedman, was published. It was 1980, not 1978. The obituary also referred incorrectly to the book's relationship to a worldwide lecture tour given by Mr. Friedman and a PBS documentary series that was centered on it. The book was drawn from transcripts of the television series, also titled ''Free to Choose,'' and published in conjunction with the broadcast. The book was not a basis of the tour and did not precede the television series. This correction was delayed for research.

GRAPHIC: Photos: King Carl Gustaf of Sweden awarding the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science to Milton Friedman in 1976. (Photo by United Press International)
President Bush paid tribute to Milton Friedman, joined by his wife, Rose, in May 2002. The occasion was Mr. Friedman's 90th birthday. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
Mr. Friedman at a seminar at the University of Chicago in 1971. He became a full professor there in 1948. (Photo by Gary Settle)(pg. B10)
 Milton Friedman (Photo by Ernie Sisto/The New York Times, 1964)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); RECESSION (76%); INFLATION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Economics; Biographical Information; Deaths (Obituaries); United States Economy; Economics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

BEN BERNANKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ADAM SMITH (51%) Holcomb B Noble; Milton Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (79%)

CATEGORY: Economics

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



407 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16

More U.S. Bombs Back Up NATO Effort in Afghanistan
The Air Force has conducted more than 2,000 airstrikes in Afghanistan over the past six months, a sharp increase in bombing that reflects the growing demand for American air cover since NATO has assumed a larger ground combat role, Air Force officials said. A14

French Socialists Elect Leader 

Segolene Royal moved a step closer to becoming the first female president of France, winning the Socialist Party nomination in next April's election. A1

Competing to Sway Myanmar
American attempts to pressure Myanmar's government, one of the world's most repressive, to address its people's needs and curb abuses have faltered, in large part, because China's thirst for the country's vast resources has undermined nearly a decade of economic sanctions. A1

Iraq Seeks Key Sunni's Arrest
The government issued an arrest warrant for Sheik Harith al-Dhari, one of Iraq's most prominent Sunni Arab clerics, on charges of inciting terrorism, officials said. A14

Sudan Reverses on U.N. Force
The Sudanese government agreed in principle to allow a joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force into the war-stricken Darfur region, reversing its refusal to let any United Nations troops in. A3

Congo Vote to Be Contested
Jean-Pierre Bemba, the former warlord vying for the presidency of Congo, vowed to contest his loss, but promised to do so peacefully, despite fears that he would unleash his private army in protest. A3

NATIONAL A18-29

Democrats Buck Pelosi Picking New House Leader
House Democrats chose Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland as their new majority leader, rejecting the choice of the incoming speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and straining the unity of the new majority party. A1

12 Die in Southeast Storm
A volatile storm system killed at least 12 people and injured dozens more across the Southeast before heading north up the Eastern Seaboard, prompting forecasters to issue flash-flood warnings from Virginia to Maine. A18

Court Denies Blogger's Appeal
A federal appeals court has denied a request for a rehearing from a freelance video journalist and blogger who has been jailed for three months for refusing to cooperate with a grand jury investigation of a violent anticapitalist protest. A20

Hog Plant Workers Walk Out
In an unusual move by nonunion workers, more than 500 employees walked out at Smithfield Packing's hog-killing plant in Tar Heel, N.C., the largest pork-processing plant in the world. They said they were angry over Smithfield's recent decision to fire dozens of immigrant workers. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Drug May Increase Endurance
A drug shown to reverse the effects of obesity in mice and make them live longer has now been shown to increase their endurance as well, and may open up a new field of research on similar drugs that may be relevant to the prevention of diabetes and other diseases. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Spitzer Is Said to Favor Removal of Comptroller
Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer is inclined to ask the State Senate to remove Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, who used a state worker as a chauffeur for his ailing wife, people involved in the discussions said. Mr. Spitzer is awaiting the outcome of three separate inquiries into Mr. Hevesi's conduct before he makes a final decision. A1

Mother Saves Children in Fire
A mother of five helped four of her children escape out of the second-floor window of her burning apartment in Brooklyn, and refused to leave when a fifth child was unable to jump. Firefighters rescued the mother and daughter, who were hospitalized in serious condition. B1

Neediest Cases B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Department Store Comeback
After four decades of decline, retail executives say the department store has again become a destination for shoppers. A1

Consumer Prices Fall Again
Consumer prices fell by 0.5 percent in October, suggesting that inflation is being contained by falling energy prices and a slowing economy. C1

Oil Prices at 12-Month Low
Oil prices fell to $56.26 a barrel, the lowest level in a year, as traders doubted that OPEC would carry out its plan to trim production. C4

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES B10-11

Milton Friedman
The grandmaster of free-market economic theory, he was 94.

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Still waiting for bipartisanship; Speaker Pelosi tempts disaster; flying high in the busy skies; no more delays for Kosovo.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E24
Public Lives B4
TV Listings E32
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARRESTS (88%); WEATHER (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ARMIES (78%); PORK (77%); POLITICS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); GRAND JURY (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); APPEALS (65%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (64%); FLOODS & FLOODING (62%); OBESITY (60%); WRITERS (60%); FOREIGN LABOR (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); US AIR FORCE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); AFRICAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (56%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); SUDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); MYANMAR (92%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



408 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Contractor's Boss in Iraq Shot At Civilians, Workers' Suit Says 

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CAMP FALLUJA, Iraq, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Two former employees of an American private military contracting company have claimed in a Virginia court that they witnessed their supervisor deliberately shoot at Iraqi vehicles and civilians this summer, and that the company fired them for reporting the incidents.
 The allegations, made in a lawsuit filed in Fairfax County Circuit Court, say Triple Canopy, one of the largest private military contractors to work with the United States in Iraq, retaliated against the men for reporting that the supervisor had committed violent felonies, and perhaps murder, on the job. 
The lawsuit also claims that Triple Canopy's management blacklisted the men in the private military contracting industry, rendering them unemployable in the lucrative trade of providing private security in Iraq.
 The suit was filed in late July. A motion by Triple Canopy to dismiss it in full was rejected by the judge last month. On Thursday, the court set a trial date for next summer.
 In response to an inquiry, a spokesperson for Triple Canopy issued a statement on Thursday from the company's headquarters in Herndon, Va., outside Washington.
 ''Triple Canopy requires all employees to maintain the highest professional and ethical standards in every aspect of their work, including in high-threat environments such as Iraq,'' the statement said. ''Out of respect for our judicial system and all those involved, Triple Canopy does not comment on ongoing litigation.'' 
 Triple Canopy, founded by former Delta Force commandos in 2003, is one of several young companies that support military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries.
 In the suit, the former employees -- Shane B. Schmidt, a former Marine Corps sniper, and Charles L. Sheppard III, a former Army Ranger -- claim that on July 8 their shift leader fired deliberately and unnecessarily at Iraqi vehicles and civilians in two incidents while their team was driving in Baghdad. 
 Their job that day, the suit says, was to pick up an employee of KBR, a subsidiary of the Halliburton Company that is involved in construction in Iraq, at the Baghdad airport.
 In the suit and in telephone interviews, however, the men said that their shift leader, who was scheduled to leave Iraq the next day, was determined to kill before he left Baghdad. (The shift leader, a former American serviceman from Oklahoma, was not named in the suit.) The first incident occurred about 2:15 p.m., the suit says, when their vehicle approached the airport entrance. 
 Their shift leader, the suit claims, announced that he was ''going to kill someone today,'' stepped from his vehicle and fired several shots from his M4 assault rifle into the windshield of a stopped white truck.
 The men claim that the truck was not an evident threat and that their team was not in danger. The men say in the suit that the shift leader then returned to their truck and said, ''That didn't happen, understand.''
 Later that day, the suit says, the shift leader said, ''I've never shot anyone with my pistol before,'' and then opened the vehicle door and fired seven or eight shots into the windshield of a taxi.
 Neither of the plaintiffs, in telephone interviews, said he knew for certain what injuries had been suffered by civilians in the two vehicles that had been shot at by their shift leader. In each case, they said, their own vehicle drove away quickly after the shift leader fired.
 Both men said that the shift leader had told them that if they reported the shootings they would be fired, and that they feared that the shift leader, whom they regarded as unstable, was dangerous to them.
 Nevertheless, on July 10, the day after the shift leader left Iraq, the two men reported the shootings to Triple Canopy's senior supervisors in the country, the lawsuit says, adding that retaliation was swift. 
 ''Immediately after making the report, Plaintiff Sheppard was pulled from duty and suspended,'' the suit claims. ''Plaintiff Schmidt was suspended the following day. Within a week the plaintiffs were terminated as a result of having reported the Shift Leader's unlawful conduct.''
 Each man had been paid $500 a day by Triple Canopy for work in Iraq, the suit says. Since then, they claim to have been blacklisted. 
 Both men seek lost earnings and damages, said their lawyer, Patricia A. Smith. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (93%); LITIGATION (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FELONIES (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ETHICS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); MURDER (57%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Suits and Litigation; Whistle-Blowers ; Private Military Contractors; Defense Contracts

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Triple Canopy (Private Security Co)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: C J Chivers; Shane B Schmidt; Charles L III Sheppard

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



409 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Savoring a Small Victory After a Market Timing Scandal 

BYLINE: By ELLEN ROSEN

 BODY:
Frederick J. O'Meally, a former Wall Street broker who made millions for himself and Prudential Securities Inc. through market timing, seems happy.
 Last month, Wachovia wired nearly $3.8 million into his account, a result of an NASD arbitration.
The panel's award, Mr. O'Meally contends, demonstrates that his market timing practices -- which came under scrutiny in the mutual fund trading investigation and led to his firing -- were appropriate. 
 But the large award, in reality, represents only a partial victory. It was limited to what was essentially a retention bonus promised when Prudential Financial, Mr. O'Meally's original employer, spun off its brokerage division into a joint venture with Wachovia. Mr. O'Meally received no award for wrongful termination, slander or lawyers' fees, which he also sought in the arbitration. 
 And his problems are by no means over. In August, the Securities and Exchange Commission named Mr. O'Meally, along with three other former Prudential brokers, in a civil enforcement action, the same day it announced a $600 million settlement with Prudential over its market timing practices. The complaint contends that Mr. O'Meally, along with the other brokers, defrauded more than 25 mutual funds of more than $2.5 billion. At the time the action was announced, five other Prudential brokers from the Boston office were already facing criminal as well as civil charges arising from the market timing. And others from Prudential may still face S.E.C. actions. David Bergers, the head of the S.E.C.'s Boston office who is leading the investigation, noted that the investigation was continuing.
 The award and the investigation show how three years after the mutual fund scandals erupted, a number of people like Mr. O'Meally who were caught up in the scrutiny remain in a state of limbo. 
 Mr. O'Meally, now 48, was fired shortly after Prudential spun off its securities business into a joint venture with Wachovia and as investigations into questionable mutual fund practices stepped up. 
 Without a job, and with the S.E.C. questioning him, he said that he grew depressed, drank heavily at times and eventually sought a doctor's care for his depression. Despite selling some assets, he kept his house and has been able to pay his legal bills -- he was not indemnified by Prudential. He was able to start a hedge fund with $2 million of his own money together with investments from friends, family and former clients, whom he declined to identify.
 The new firm, Kismet Capital Advisors, is named after the Fire Island community he can see from his office in Bay Shore, N.Y., a converted caretaker's building on his property. With two other employees, the firm, with a $12 million fund, invests in the markets of 40 countries, including the United States, Mr. O'Meally said. (He plans to invest some of his NASD award in his fund.)
 And despite his continuing legal travails, he says that he does rely on market timing -- using a mix of options, derivatives, currencies and American depository receipts as part of the investment strategy. And while the firm owns mutual funds, he says that this time around, mutual funds are not part of the market timing approach.
 Mr. O'Meally contends that while he was at Prudential his trading practices were not only accepted but out in the open -- so much so that he and the other brokers who engaged in the practice referred to themselves as the ''market timers.''
 The system that he used, Mr. O'Meally said, ''enabled me to execute a few hundred trades in a few minutes'' on behalf of hedge fund clients. According to the S.E.C.'s complaint, a number of mutual funds tried to block the trades once they caught on to his practices. He said he abided by those blocks, although the commission contends that he tried to work around them.
 Mr. O'Meally claims that an internal business review committee at Prudential initially vetted the program he used. Subsequently, he was subject to a review, which he described as ''similar to an audit, of all my trades, accounts and positions.''
 ''No one told me to change anything and no one said I was doing anything wrong,'' he added. 
 The practice was also lucrative. Mr. O'Meally said he ''averaged $5 million in production for five years, of which I got roughly 40 percent,'' catapulting him to the top of Prudential's brokers.
 The timing of his termination, he said, was a surprise, since he said he stopped market timing once Wachovia demanded that the practice end. Jonathan Harris, who, along with Peter Fleming of the law firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle, represents Mr. O'Meally, said that Mr. O'Meally denies the charges, explaining that ''when the mutual funds knew of his trading and asked him to stop, he stopped.'' 
 Mr. Harris added that Prudential knew and approved of the practices and said that ''our view is that Prudential threw the brokers under the bus hoping to minimize the involvement of the company and portray them as rogue brokers.''
 ''That's just not the case,'' he said. 
 Robert DeFillippo, chief communications officer for Prudential Financial, which was dismissed from the arbitration, declined to comment on the case.
 Teresa Dougherty, a spokeswoman for Wachovia Securities, said that the company stood by its determination to terminate Mr. O'Meally. And although the panel denied his claims for wrongful termination and defamation, Wachovia ''disagrees with the panel's decision to award Mr. O'Meally benefits not due to an associate under these circumstances'' but did not appeal.
 For his part, Mr. O'Meally said he felt abandoned. ''Those in senior management were my friends -- I've been at their houses, they've been on my boats.''
 Unemployment ''wasn't my choice,'' he said, ''but I like what I'm doing better -- owning my own hedge fund instead of being a broker.''
 And he said he expected to be fully vindicated. 
 ''The S.E.C. hasn't heard my full testimony,'' he said. ''Once someone hears the story we feel confident that they'll think everything I did was appropriate.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick J. O'Meally is back at work, engaging in some of the market timing strategies that got him fired in the first place. He says he did nothing wrong. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); BONDS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); FIRES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); LIBEL & SLANDER (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (91%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Kismet Capital Advisors; Prudential Financial; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: Frederick J O'Meally; Ellen Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



410 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Head of Renault and Nissan Backs Away From Detroit

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan and Renault, said on Thursday that he was no longer interested in adding a North American partner, at least until earnings improved at the two automakers that he oversees. 
 ''We don't think the timing is right,'' said Mr. Ghosn, in his first public appearance in Detroit since alliance discussions with General Motors ended last month.
''The right moment'' to explore a partnership, Mr. Ghosn said after speaking to the Detroit Economic Club, ''is when Nissan is growing again.''
 Renault is in the midst of a turnaround plan, and Nissan is introducing a line of new models in the hopes of reversing a decline in sales and profit margins.
 ''Before we envision new frontiers,'' he said, ''we want to make sure what we're doing is right. The day we are ready, there may not be an opportunity.''
 Although it was G.M. that abruptly pulled out of last summer's alliance talks, Mr. Ghosn emphasized that Nissan and Renault were not actively seeking a partner at the time. He also said Nissan and Renault shareholders seemed resistant to the proposal, suggesting a deal may not have happened even if G.M. were open to it.
 ''We didn't select the moment,'' Mr. Ghosn said.
 The proposal was made by G.M.'s largest individual shareholder, the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, and the three automakers participated in more than two months of discussions before G.M.'s board voted to end them. G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, believed his company would benefit far less than Nissan and Renault, and Mr. Ghosn was unwilling to pay a premium to compensate for that difference.
 Mr. Ghosn said he was not talking to other automakers about working together and did not plan to do so. During the summer, the chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, William Clay Ford Jr., reportedly called Mr. Ghosn and asked him to consider a partnership if discussions with G.M. did not work out.
 Analysts say a partnership with a Detroit automaker would help Nissan, the third-largest Japanese carmaker, gain on Toyota and Honda, whose sales are surging. Toyota is in line to surpass G.M., possibly as early as next year, as the world's largest automaker.
 ''Sooner or later, Nissan needs to find a way to participate more broadly in North America,'' said John Casesa, managing partner of Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York. ''The profits that Toyota will make here will be used against all of its competitors, including Nissan. So at some point, it becomes a defensive strategy.''
 Nissan could look to G.M. or Ford as it plans to increase production in North America in anticipation of higher sales in the United States. Nissan projects that demand will be higher than its capacity in the coming years, and Mr. Ghosn left open the possibility that, rather than building a factory, he would seek to use a plant closed by a Detroit automaker.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Ghosn of Renault and Nissan told the Detroit Economic Club that a partnership with an American car company is off for now. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) Automobiles; Sales; Partnerships

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Nissan Motor Co ; Renault Sa; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (92%); RNO (BIT) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); 7201 (TSE) (85%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (93%); RICK WAGONER (58%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Carlos Ghosn; Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



411 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Names Policy Advisers for Transition to Governor

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer yesterday announced the leaders and members of 13 policy advisory committees who will counsel him while he prepares to take office as the first Democratic governor of New York in a dozen years. The choices provide an early glimpse of whom his main advisers may be as he seeks major reform in Albany.
 The list -- 17 men and 12 women -- includes several of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's advisers; a few veterans of the administrations of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat; one politician who lost her bid to appear on the Democratic ticket with Mr. Spitzer this fall; and two of Mr. Spitzer's former bosses. 
Several hundred other business, political and civic leaders will serve as members of the advisory groups, which will focus on areas ranging from agriculture to transportation. 
 ''We think they are an extraordinarily distinguished group of leaders and thinkers,'' Mr. Spitzer said during a Manhattan news conference.
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver praised Mr. Spitzer's choices and said he would help each group coordinate efforts with Assembly members who have been active on the same issues.
 Few of Mr. Spitzer's picks were surprising. Taken together, they reflect a mix of the experience Mr. Spitzer requires, the political debts he owes and the future he would like to see unfold over the next four years.
 Robert Abrams, a former state attorney general, will head the panel on government reform, a telling choice to help tackle one of Mr. Spitzer's signal issues. Mr. Abrams, who has also served as a state assemblyman and Bronx borough president, is both a consummate insider and an insistent voice for overhauling some of the institutions in which he has served. 
 ''It is those who understand the failures of the system who have also become, very often, the most powerful voices for reform,'' said Mr. Spitzer, who was an intern for Mr. Abrams in the early 1980s. (Leecia Roberta Eve, a former adviser to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton who failed this year in her effort to become Mr. Spitzer's running mate, will lead the group with Mr. Abrams.)
 Other choices reflected the near-impossibility of cutting through Albany's Gordian knot of special interests without inviting many of those interests into the discussion.
 Dennis Rivera, the powerful head of the state's health-workers union, will serve as a member of Mr. Spitzer's health commission, as will Kenneth E. Raske, who heads the state's hospital association. Mr. Spitzer is likely to face an early political battle with the two men over the recommendations expected to be issued by a state hospital closing commission later this month.
 Mr. Spitzer said yesterday that the list did not include ''any elected officials nor any lobbyists.'' Although a number of registered lobbyists were included among the more than 300 transition advisers, all were individuals who lobby only on behalf of organizations by which they are directly employed. (Some, like Blair Horner, the legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group, have lobbied for greater restrictions on lobbying.) Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, said there were no ''third-party'' lobbyists among the transition advisers, meaning lobbyists who are paid to work on behalf of other groups.
 Denise E. O'Donnell, a friend of Mr. Spitzer's and a former prosecutor who dropped her effort to become attorney general this year, will be a co-chairwoman of a criminal justice task force. Now in private practice, Ms. O'Donnell is also a ''corporate accountability'' adviser to Empire Racing Associates, a group that will bid to take over the state's struggling thoroughbred racetrack franchise.
 Kristine Hamann, a top official in the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, will be the other co-chairwoman of the task force. Ms. Hamann, like Mr. Abrams, was once Mr. Spitzer's boss, when he worked in Mr. Morgenthau's office early in his career.
 Felix G. Rohatyn, a former United States ambassador to France and a key architect of New York City's fiscal bailout during the 1970s, will be one of three chairman of the economic development committee. The other two are Dan Carp, a former chief executive of the Eastman Kodak Company, and Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express.
 One subject that did not get its own group was the state budget, which Mr. Spitzer acknowledged would shape -- and inevitably limit -- the scope and ambition of the committees' proposals.
 The groups will not produce any formal written policy proposals.
 ''We don't want people to try to generate a homogenized, simplistic document at the end of the day,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''We are asking them to participate in a dialogue, a very hard-hitting discussion, that we will be there to hear at different points along the way.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David A. Paterson, left, and Eliot Spitzer, who will become the lieutenant governor and governor of New York in January, at a news conference yesterday announcing the names of advisory committee members. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); MEN (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (61%); HOSPITALS (60%); CLOSINGS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Transition Between Administrations; Governors (US); Appointments and Executive Changes

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID PATERSON (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Nicholas Confessore; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



412 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: On to Vietnam, Bush Hears Echoes of 1968 in Iraq 2006

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Friday, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
During the presidential campaign in 2000, George W. Bush, who served out the Vietnam War in the Texas Air National Guard, was asked whether he ever considered volunteering to fight when he graduated from Yale in 1968.
 ''Did I think about going to the Army post and saying 'Send me to Vietnam?' '' Mr. Bush asked, describing his own outlook in 1968. ''Not really. I wanted to fly, and that was the adventure I was seeking.''
 Thirty-eight years later, at age 60, Mr. Bush finally arrived in Vietnam Friday morning. His motorcade sped into the city past roads that Americans once bombed, at the start of a 72-hour visit linked to an annual Asian summit meeting that the Communist government in Vietnam is playing host to for the first time. 
 In private, some White House officials concede it is spectacularly poor timing. Just as Lyndon B. Johnson did in 1968, Mr. Bush has ousted his longtime defense secretary and nominated a realist with ''fresh eyes'' to replace him. Just like President Johnson in 1968, he is conducting a broad rethinking of strategy, and is hearing options he does not like. 
 His aides argue that the analogies between these wars are mostly false. The comparisons will nonetheless be the unavoidable subtext of Mr. Bush's every move as he travels in Hanoi and then stops in the city that in his youth was known as Saigon, and that became the scene of an American military debacle. And he will have to convince his allies, ordinary Americans, and perhaps himself, that Iraq will end differently. 
 If Mr. Bush is privately thinking about the war he missed, the White House is not letting on. Asked aboard Air Force One about ''the lessons of the war,'' Tony Snow, the president's press secretary, said, ''What's interesting is that the Vietnamese are not particularly interested in that.'' He added: ''This is not going to be a look back at Vietnam. It really is going to be a looking forward to areas of cooperation and shared concern.'' 
 He went on to talk about the growing trade relationship, and declined to say whether Mr. Bush was betting that deeper economic integration with the world would undermine Vietnam's Communist government.
 Until now, when asked what he had learned from Vietnam, Mr. Bush has almost reflexively reached for the same line: That he does not micromanage his generals, the way Mr. Johnson did. It is a response drawn from conservative orthodoxy about what went wrong in Vietnam, underlying an argument that had the generals been allowed to fight their way, the United States might have won.
 But he may feel compelled to say more in Hanoi. Mr. Bush will find himself inside government halls adorned with paintings of Ho Chi Minh. He will be talking about the future of Asia with Ho's Communist successors who, Washington once warned, could not be allowed to win.
 He will be sleeping just a mile or so from the open-air equivalent to the Situation Room where Ho Chi Minh managed his generals, from a single telephone at the end of a conference table. (It is now part of a museum, but Mr. Bush's schedule reveals no plans to visit.) His motorcade will zip past the lake where John McCain was pulled to shore after bailing out.
 With such emotional imagery to deal with, it is no surprise that Mr. Bush's national security team has spent an enormous amount of time drawing distinctions between the war that their generation grew up with, and the one that they ordered.
 ''Historical parallels of that kind are not very helpful, and I don't think they happen to be right,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told reporters the other day. ''This is a different set of circumstances, with different stakes for the United States.'' 
 Stephen J. Hadley, the president's national security adviser, struck a similar note last week when he suggested that the ''domino effect'' that Americans worried about in the 1960s and 70s -- the fear that neighboring countries would fall to Communism's lures -- was nothing compared to the problems today.
 ''There were discussions about dominoes, some which fell, some which didn't fall,'' he said. But, he added, ''Most men and women in America believe that it is important that we not fail in Iraq; that the consequences of an Iraq that descended into chaos would be an Iraq that would be a safe haven for terrorists.''
 Ultimately, he said, that ''could result in 9/11-type attacks against the United States.'' 
 In private, Mr. Bush says there is another big difference between then and now -- the draft. There is little question that by signing up to be a pilot in the Texas Air National Guard, the risk was low that he would end up in Vietnam as a 23-year-old. But according to an academic called into the White House recently, Mr. Bush said the administration could never have sustained this effort in Iraq, politically, without an all-volunteer force. He declined to be named because he was relaying a private conversation. 
 The argument that Vietnam is very different gets some backing from Stanley Karnow, the Vietnam historian. ''There are differences and similarities, of course,'' he said. ''We got lied into both wars.'' 
 But, he added: ''The easy summation is that Vietnam began as a guerrilla war and escalated into an orthodox war -- by the end we were fighting in big units. Iraq starts as a conventional war, and has degenerated into a guerrilla war. It has gone in an opposite direction. And it's much more difficult to deal with.''

U.S. Seeks Korea Nuclear Step
(By The New York Times)
 HANOI, Nov. 16 -- The United States is working with China and other Asian nations to pressure North Korea to take a visible step toward dismantling its nuclear program before starting a new round of nuclear disarmament talks, American officials said Thursday. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, here for a meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, said that while she was hopeful the talks -- begun in 2003 -- would resume in December, it was pointless to return to the bargaining table without a show of good faith from both sides. 
 She refused to expand on what those steps would be. But American officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said an acceptable move might be for North Korea to dismantle one of its nuclear facilities and to readmit inspectors.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Hanoi yesterday, a shop owner showed portraits of President Bush that were to be presented to him when he arrived in Vietnam today. (Photo by Barbara Walton/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%) Vietnam War; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (94%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (79%) Iraq; Vietnam; Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam); Hanoi (Vietnam)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



413 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: A Seinfeld Congress? 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Tierney's Nov. 14 column, ''Bring On the Seinfeld Congress,'' was far too cynical. 
 Americans did not vote for gridlock in the last election in the hope that the next Congress will ''do nothing.''
In fact, according to a recent survey by the John Brademas Center for the Study of Congress at New York University, a vast majority of Americans want Congress to act on matters affecting economic growth and quality of life, including health care, Social Security and energy policy.
 These issues and others, including developing a strong American work force and opening new markets abroad, are key components to America's success in an increasingly competitive global marketplace. 
 The issues are neither red nor blue. By focusing on drivers of economic growth and sound fiscal policy, our legislators in Washington can enhance our ability to compete around the world and thrive in the global economy.

Harold McGraw III
New York, Nov. 15, 2006

The writer, the chairman and C.E.O. of McGraw-Hill Companies, is chairman of the Business Roundtable.

To the Editor:
 I can't speak for the rest of the electorate, but I didn't vote for gridlock in Congress. 
 Given what the Republican-controlled legislature has done in the last five years, I would like to see it reverse some of the damage that affected education, corporate oversight and the environment.
 But I'd be willing to settle for a do-nothing Congress. It would be a big step in the right direction.

William R. Hall
Wayne, N.J., Nov. 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); WRITERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%) United States; Elections

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL COS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (82%) Business Roundtable

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (90%); HAROLD W MCGRAW III (71%) John Tierney; Harold III Mcgraw; William R Hall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



414 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar Is Left in Dark, an Energy-Rich Orphan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: SITTWE, Myanmar 

 BODY:
In the balmy waters of the Bay of Bengal, just off the coast, an Asian energy rush is on. Huge pockets of natural gas have been found. China and India are jostling to sign deals. Plans are afoot to spend billions on new ports and pipelines. 
 Yet onshore, in towns like this one, not a light is to be seen -- not a street lamp, not a glow in a window -- as women crouch by the roadside at dawn, sorting by candlelight the vegetables they will sell for two cents a bunch at the morning market.
Paraffin and wood are major sources of light and heat. People receive two hours of electricity a day from a military government that is among the world's most repressive. 
 But attempts at outside pressure to prod the government to address its people's needs and curb abuses have faltered, in large part because China's thirst for resources has undermined nearly a decade of American economic sanctions. 
 Critics say that Washington's policy has handed Myanmar, formerly Burma, to China. Still, as President Bush prepares to meet with leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Vietnam on Nov. 17, one topic on his agenda will be how to keep up the pressure. He is not likely to find cooperation, not from rivals like China and Russia, nor even countries like Singapore and Indonesia, which trade freely with Myanmar. 
 The Asian energy rush is the latest demonstration of how the hunt for oil and gas, and China's economic leverage, are reshaping international politics, often in ways that run counter to American preferences. 
 In many respects, with the rise of China's economic power and its unflagging support, the government here has become more entrenched than ever, people inside and outside the country say. 
 ''What can we do about it?'' said a well educated man here, when asked about the plans to sell the gas abroad in the face of the deprivation at home. ''What good would it do to protest, what would we get?'' People were too afraid of the 400,000-member strong army supplied by China, Russia and Ukraine to complain, he said. 
 In numerous encounters in Myanmar, where most speak with extreme caution to foreigners and almost always anonymously for fear of jail, people joked sardonically that China was the ''big daddy'' and that soon it would ''own'' Myanmar. ''China is a good friend of the government, not of the people,'' one woman said. ''They are like brother and brother-in-law.'' 
 The Bush administration has pledged that it will not let up on its sanctions against the government until it releases the opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been under house arrest for 11 of the past 17 years. 
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's political party won an overwhelming victory in elections in 1990, and Washington insists that the government recognize those results, and release an estimated 1,100 political prisoners. 
 The Bush administration says it plans to file a Security Council resolution at the United Nations in coming weeks condemning the government for its human rights abuses, and tightening sanctions further. 
 The United Nations under secretary general, Ibrahim Gambari, met with the junta leader, Gen. Than Shwe, on Nov. 11 in Myanmar and urged the government to mend its ways on forced labor and political prisoners. The meeting ended inconclusively, United Nations officials said. 
 With so much energy and other resources at stake, and given its preference to shun outside interference in internal politics, China's leaders are seemingly unbothered by what is happening inside Myanmar. 
 China's National Development Reform Commission approved plans in April to build a pipeline that would carry China's Middle East oil from a deep water port off Sittwe across Myanmar to Yunnan, China's southern province. This would provide China with an alternative to the Strait of Malacca, which it now depends on for delivering its oil from the Middle East. 
 Though no date has been announced for work on the new pipeline across Myanmar, the military appeared to be getting ready to build the deep sea port on the island of Ramree, to the south of here, local people said. 
 In another sign of the importance of Myanmar to China, the chairman of the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, Fu Chengyu, said in a speech this year that the company would focus its investment in the medium term on two countries: Myanmar and Nigeria. Engineers at the company, known as Cnooc, are currently exploring for oil on Ramree, and the company has rights to other oil deposits in central Myanmar, according to Myanmar government reports. 
 India, thirsty for energy to fuel its own fast-growing economy, sees Myanmar as a place where it needs to contain China. In the late 1990s, democratic India switched its policy toward Myanmar from antagonism to friendship. 
 And Thailand, Southeast Asia's largest economy, spends about $1.2 billion a year for Myanmar's natural gas, giving the military government badly needed hard currency. 
 In conversations with people in a number of towns, a portrait emerged of a universally unpopular, deeply corrupt government. People told of worsening poverty, a collapsed education system and a health care system that could deal only with those who paid. Tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS were rampant, they said. 
 The government's budget for its AIDS program in 2004 was $22,000, according to a recent health survey by John Hopkins University Medical School.
 The junta leader, Gen. Than Shwe, 73, whose early military training was in psychological warfare, was described by many here as a master manipulator of his minions. He insisted, apparently out of fear of a coup, that the capital be moved this year from Yangon, formerly Rangoon, to a new site in the jungle, Naypyidaw. 
 The move, costing millions of scarce dollars, was in step with the general's belief that he marched in the footsteps of the old Burmese kings -- the name of the new capital means ''Royal City.'' Then, as now, there was a fierce line between the rulers and the ruled. 
 For the first time, health workers said they were discovering severe malnutrition among children in urban centers, a true anomaly in a lush country that was once the world's biggest exporter of rice. 
 In Mandalay, the second-biggest city, almost naked children with distended stomachs scrounged on the riverfront. In one village on the Thwande River on the west coast, nomadic families were too strapped for food to offer any to visitors, a traditional courtesy in Myanmar. 
 ''Why is there severe malnutrition in this Garden of Eden? Because people are poor,'' said Frank Smithuis, a physician who has worked in Myanmar since 1994 and heads the Doctors Without Borders, Holland, medical programs. ''People are going from three meals to two meals to one meal. One meal a day just isn't enough.''
 In the village of Leat Pan Gyunt, south of Sittwe, villagers said they could afford to send their girls to school for only three years. The local school consisted of one dirt-floored room for all grades from first to eighth. The desks were planks of wood supported on two bricks. 
 Afraid of protests by students, the government dispersed the University of Yangon to sites outside the capital. 
 At the new Magway University, the medical students were learning surgery from books and videos, without working on human corpses because the government refused to pay for formaldehyde, two people familiar with the situation said. 
 In contrast to the deepening poverty -- Myanmar's per capita income is calculated at $175 a year, far below neighboring Bangladesh -- the military leaders were amassing fortunes, people said. 
 The latest evidence was a video leaked to a Web site, www.irrawaddy.org, based in Thailand, of the recent opulent wedding of General Than Shwe's daughter, Thandar Shwe. The video showed the bride, with her father alongside her, decked out in a necklace of six ropes of large diamonds, her hair looped with diamonds as well. 
 For those educated people who want change, the path is treacherous.
 ''I don't want to waste myself in jail,'' said one woman, who had two relatives imprisoned. ''They were not the same when they came out.'' 
 In a similar vein to the dissidents in Eastern Europe in the 1980s, the woman said she believed change had to come from inside the country. But unlike Poland under Soviet rule, no unions are allowed in Myanmar, and most kinds of formal associations are considered suspect. 
 She said she held classes at her home on how to be more confident, how to strategize. She was trying to spread her classes to Buddhist monasteries and Christian churches, she said. 
 ''Only education can change people because people don't know anything,'' she said. ''Only about 10 percent of the people know what is going on.'' Sometimes she was in such despair, she said, that she believed that the only way to win against the government was ''to think like them.'' 
 ''But we can't think like them,'' she added, ''nobody thinks like them.'' 
 Not all opposition groups that work outside the country believe that Washington's hard line is serving the best interests of Myanmar or the United States. 
 With its policy of isolation, the Bush administration was allowing China, and to a lesser extent, India, to have a free hand in Myanmar to the exclusion of the United States, said Aung Naing Oo, who spent a year at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and who is the author of several books on Myanmar. 
 ''The geopolitical situation favors the Burmese military,'' he said. ''China and India both want to support it, and the Asian nations have no teeth.'' 
 Still, on a recent trip to Vietnam, a delegation of Myanmar officials heard something that astounded them, he said. They went to find out why Vietnam had become so suddenly prosperous. 
 ''The Vietnamese said one word: 'The Americans.' The Burmese could not believe that after fighting a war Vietnam was friendly with the United States.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the impact of the Asian energy rush on international policies and on Myanmar named the wrong country as having Southeast Asia's largest economy. Most major economic measurements indicate that it is Indonesia, not Thailand.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the island of Ramree, where the military may be getting ready to build a deep sea port, a woman collects oil drilled from private wells.
In the poorest areas in Yangon, palm oil is rationed. The capital was moved this year from Yangon to a site in the jungle, costing millions of dollars. (Photographs by The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 At a night market in Yangon, people sell their wares by candlelight because of a lack of electricity. (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Myanmar highlighting Sittwe: Off the coast near Sittwe, new ports and pipelines are planned. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); HOUSE ARREST (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Freedom and Human Rights; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Gas (Fuel)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (51%) Jane Perlez; George W (Pres) Bush; Daw Aung San Suu Kyi

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) MYANMAR (97%); CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); VIET NAM (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Myanmar; China; India; Thailand; Russia; Myanmar; Russia; Ukraine; Myanmar

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



415 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Deal With India Wins Backing Of U.S. Senate

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
The Senate gave overwhelming approval late Thursday to President Bush's deal for nuclear cooperation with India, a vote expressing that a goal of nurturing India as an ally outweighed concerns over the risks of spreading nuclear skills and bomb-making materials.
 By a vote of 85 to 12, senators agreed to a program that would allow the United States to send nuclear fuel and technology to India, which has refused to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
The agreement, negotiated by President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India in March, calls for the United States to end a long moratorium on sales of nuclear fuel and reactor components. For its part, India would divide its reactor facilities into civilian and military nuclear programs, with civilian facilities open to international inspections. 
 Critics have been unwavering in arguing that the pact would rally nations like North Korea and Iran to press ahead with nuclear weapons programs despite international complaints and threats. Opponents of the measure also warned that the deal would allow India to build more bombs with its limited stockpile of radioactive material, and could spur a regional nuclear arms race with Pakistan and China.
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican who is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, hailed the measure's passage as ''one more important step toward a vibrant and exciting relationship between our two great democracies.''
 His endorsement was significant, coming from a senator respected for efforts in nonproliferation and whose name is part of a sweeping program to secure nuclear bomb-making materials in the former Soviet Union. He also expressed ''thanks for a truly bipartisan effort'' to Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat set to become Foreign Relations chairman in the new Congress.
 While advocates of the measure said it would be an incentive for India to refrain from nuclear tests, denunciations came quickly from a minority of senators who opposed it, as well as from critics in the House.
 ''It is a sad day for U.S. national security when the Senate passes a sweeping exemption to our nonproliferation laws that will allow India to increase its annual bomb-production capacity from 7 to over 40 bombs a year,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, co-chairman of the House Bipartisan Taskforce on Nonproliferation. He said the measure ''sends the wrong signal at a time when the world is trying to prevent Iran from getting the bomb.''
 After the vote, the White House issued a statement from President Bush praising passage of the bill.
 ''The United States and India enjoy a strategic partnership based upon common values,'' the statement said. ''The U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Cooperation agreement will bring India into the international nuclear nonproliferation mainstream and will increase the transparency of India's entire civilian nuclear program.''
 The Senate rejected several amendments that sponsors said would clarify or narrow the deal, including one that would have required India to halt all military relations with Iran. The legislation, as passed, does contain a new provision that requires the president to declare that India has joined multinational efforts to contain Iran's nuclear program before the United States-India nuclear deal moves forward.
 The Senate legislation now must be matched to the House version, which passed in July by a vote of 359 to 68; both chambers then must approve the final language. Even with Senate approval, the package will not move forward until both houses agree to specifics of a nuclear-cooperation accord with India. A complementary deal between India and the International Atomic Energy Agency also must be reached.
 When the plan was announced, India pledged to classify 14 of its 22 nuclear reactors as civilian facilities. That would put those reactors under international inspections for the first time. But other reactors would remain under Indian military jurisdiction, and not open to inspectors.
 After India and Pakistan conducted surprise nuclear tests about eight years ago, the Clinton administration imposed economic sanctions on both countries. But the Bush administration's effort to enlist allies for its global antiterrorism campaign brought an end to those sanctions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INSPECTIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Arms Sales Abroad

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%) Thom Shanker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) India; Pakistan; China; Iran; North Korea; India

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



416 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: For Wallflowers, a Time to Dance

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and PETER EDMONSTON; Vikas Bajaj and Charles Duhigg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Media companies may be unloved on Wall Street, but they have found big fans elsewhere. 
 Some of the largest broadcasters and publishers are being swept into the arms of private equity firms, which are drawn to the rich cash flows these businesses generate and are undaunted by their slowing growth. The trend could raise new regulatory concerns, however, as some of the big private equity firms start to weave a complex web of cross-ownerships in the industry.
The latest example is Clear Channel Communications, the nation's No. 1 network of radio stations, including Z100 in New York and KIIS-FM in Los Angeles. Yesterday, the company agreed to be acquired for $18.7 billion by Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain Capital in the largest buyout ever in the media and entertainment industry, according to Thomson Financial.
 Just a few months ago, two private equity groups were locked in a bidding war for Univision Communications, the largest Spanish-language broadcaster in the United States. The winning consortium agreed to pay $12 billion for the company. And yesterday, the Reader's Digest Association, publisher of Reader's Digest magazine, agreed to be taken private for $1.6 billion by a buyout consortium led by Ripplewood Holdings. 
 The deal-making frenzy extends to other corners of the media industry as well. Tribune Company, which owns 11 newspapers including The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times and Newsday, as well as two dozen television stations, has drawn interest from buyout firms and private investors as it considers a sale of all or parts of the company. 
 While there are differences among the newspaper, television, radio and publishing businesses, they face a number of common threats. The Internet, portable music devices and other new technologies have siphoned off part of their audiences, and advertisers have responded by moving more of their ad buying to the Internet. As a result, the growth rates at many media companies have slowed sharply, making them undesirable to many investors. 
 But many of these same businesses throw off a great deal of cash that can be used to support a debt-financed buyout. There are plenty of banks willing to lend money for such deals, and interest rates are relatively low.
 The deal for Reader's Digest -- seemingly as old-fashioned as media can be -- illustrates why publicly held media companies can be so attractive to private money. Although Reader's Digest's net income and stock price have both declined over the last five years, the company's sales have remained stable.
 ''The more people disparage 'old media,' the happier I am,'' said Robert Berner, managing director of Ripplewood. ''These companies don't require a lot of capital investment. They sell subscriptions, so you get the money upfront and deliver the product over time. They generate a lot of cash, so they make great buyout candidates, and you can get them at reasonable prices, because everyone else is focused on buying shares of Google.''
 Private equity firms believe they can unlock value by selling off pieces or making drastic operational changes. 
 ''You can take chances that might cause disruptions, which you can't do with the quarter-to-quarter pressure of being public,'' said David Bank, a media analyst with RBC Capital Markets. 
 Even amid the flurry of media deals, Clear Channel stands out for its size. In a statement yesterday, Clear Channel put a total value of $26.7 billion on the transaction, including $8 billion in assumed debt.
 Three weeks ago, Clear Channel, based in San Antonio, put itself up for auction after 22 years as a public company. 
 ''The market was not appreciating the equity, and we didn't see that turning around,'' Mark P. Mays, Clear Channel's chief executive, said in an interview yesterday.
 In addition to its radio stations, Clear Channel owns billboards and other outdoor advertising through its publicly traded subsidiary, Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings. 
 Clear Channel also said yesterday that it would sell 448 out of its 1,150 stations as well as its 42-station television group. None of the 448 radio stations are in the top 100 markets in the United States. Over all, the properties to be sold accounted for less than 10 percent of Clear Channel's $6.6 billion in revenue last year, the company said.
 Even with those sales, Clear Channel will remain a broadcasting behemoth, and its proposed buyers already have big media investments. This combination could raise concerns among regulators.
 Thomas H. Lee Partners is part of the consortium that owns Univision. Bain, Thomas H. Lee and Blackstone are investors in Cumulus Media Partners, which bought the radio broadcasting business of Susquehanna Pfaltzgraff in May for $1.2 billion. 
 So the Clear Channel deal may be the first in which regulators will have to consider private equity owners as established players in some media markets.
 ''When you are as close to the ownership ceilings in so many markets in so many ways as Clear Channel is, it doesn't take much in terms of a media-savvy or media-involved buyer to start tripping over some of the ceilings,'' said Andrew D. Lipman, a Washington-based partner at Bingham McCutchen.
 In large cities, media companies cannot own more than eight radio stations; the caps are lower in cities with fewer stations. Federal rules also limit cross-ownership among TV stations, newspapers and radio outlets in the same markets.
 Lawyers who specialize in the media industry note that Clear Channel is already close to those limits in many big markets such as Dallas, Chicago and Miami. 
 The Clear Channel deal could have repercussions for Tribune as well. Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain had been considered to be potential bidders for Tribune, and Clear Channel might quench their interest.
 Lawyers at the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission will review the Clear Channel deal to determine if the new owners could drive up ad rates on radio and TV airwaves and in local newspapers through their control over the properties.
 The analysis will be more complicated than in standard mergers between competitors because private equity firms are widely expected to argue that they do not exert control over pricing and other operational aspects of the companies in which they invest, said Robert C. Walters, a partner specializing in antitrust law at Vinson & Elkins. ''What you have to do is figure out who does or does not have control,'' he said.
 A connection that may draw special scrutiny involves Warner Music Group, the world's fourth-biggest music company. Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain are members of the investor group that controls Warner Music, which could prompt concerns about whether Warner's songs will get favored positions on Clear Channel's radio playlists. 
 And Clear Channel has been criticized for standardizing play lists, reducing local news coverage and favoring conservative causes on its radio stations. ''It's a very conspicuous company, it is a very visible company and certainly it's a goliath in its sector, all of which is going to attract further congressional scrutiny,'' Mr. Lipman said.
 The Thomas H. Lee and Bain group won the bidding with its $37.60 a share offer, beating a rival consortium that included Providence Equity Partners, the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. The rival bid was $36.85 a share, people involved in the auction said. 
 The auction had a hiccup this week after it became apparent that the company's founding family stood to gain a huge windfall from the sale. Amid criticism of the auction process, the independent directors persuaded the Mays family to accept less compensation prompted by a change of control than they were originally entitled to receive.
 Goldman Sachs and Lazard advised Clear Channel, while Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse, RBS and Wachovia provided financial advice and financing to the private equity group. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and RBS also provided equity commitments.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark P. Mays, left, chief of Clear Channel, and his father, Lowry Mays, chairman, agreed to take less money from the sale of their company. (Photo by Joe Cavaretta/Associated Press)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Hungry for Media Properties''Private investors seem to have had better appetite than stock investors for some major media properties recently, as shown by yesterday's deals for Clear Channel and Reader's Digest. [Page C8]Leading private buyouts of media properties since 2005DATE ANNOUNCED: Nov. 16, 2006ACQUIRED COMPANY: Clear ChannelACQUIRER: Bain Capital, Thomas H. LeeVALUE OF DEAL (EXCLUDING DEBT): $18.8 billionDATE ANNOUNCED: June 27, 2006ACQUIRED COMPANY: UnivisionACQUIRER: Saban Capital, Madison Dearborn Capital, Providence Equity, Texas Pacific, Thomas H. LeeVALUE OF DEAL (EXCLUDING DEBT): $12.1DATE ANNOUNCED: Nov. 16, 2006ACQUIRED COMPANY: Reader's Digest AssociationACQUIRER: Ripplewood HoldingsVALUE OF DEAL (EXCLUDING DEBT): $1.6DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. 31, 2005ACQUIRED COMPANY: Susquehanna RadioACQUIRER: Cumulus Media, Bain Capital, Blackstone, Thomas H. LeeVALUE OF DEAL (EXCLUDING DEBT): $1.2(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (75%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Media; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Radio; Media; Television; Media; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Antitrust Actions and Laws

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (68%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (56%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (55%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Clear Channel Communications Inc; Lee, Thomas H, Partners; Bain Capital; Reader's Digest Assn Inc; Ripplewood Holdings ; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Rothschild, J, Group of Companies; Univision; Tribune Co; Grupo Televisa Sa; Madison Dearborn Partners; Providence Equity Partners; Texas Pacific Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: MARK P MAYS (55%) Charles Duhigg; Vikas Bajaj; Andrew Ross Sorkin; Peter Edmonston; Haim Saban

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006



417 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Making Inventions and Money

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
AMONG the most popular posts on Digg.com this week was one headlined ''Coolest Place in the World to Work.'' It linked to pictures taken inside Inventionland, a warehouse in Pittsburgh owned by an outfit that promotes inventors' products. It's an unusual workspace, combining stylish futurism with cloying, theme park imagery. There are waterfalls, castles and a giant walk-in cupcake. (digg.com)
 A Digg member discovered that they were just part of a series of posts by someone promoting Davison Design and Development, which operates Inventionland. Such ''spamming'' is a big no-no on Digg, and usually results in items being ''buried'' by the collective action of users. 
The Diggers did some digging, and quickly learned that the Federal Trade Commission recently won a deceptive-practices lawsuit against the company.
 Participants assumed that the poster was George Davison, the company's chief executive. In part, this was because one of the posts was headlined ''My office is a pirate ship'' and featured a video starring the 42-year-old Mr. Davison himself. 
 But a company spokesman said the posts came from an employee. It is ''unfortunate that this individual did not consult with Mr. Davison'' before posting, the spokesman wrote in an e-mail message.
 Even more unfortunate, perhaps -- given the allegations against the company -- were some of the posts bragging about how much money Davison spends. The employee wrote that each office at Inventionland has ''an Xbox, PlayStation, (soon Wii) not to mention a moat surrounding it. George Davison spent $$$$$ to create a 'Wonkaland' for his employees.''
 According to an article in Forbes this week (forbes.com), the company charges as much as $12,000 to help develop and market an invention. The company takes a share of royalties, if any. Davison reported $2 million in revenue last year.
 Of the 37,000 inventors who have signed contracts with the company in the last five years, eight have earned royalties surpassing the fees they paid to Davison. ''Only 0.001 percent of Davison's revenue was derived from royalties paid on licensed products,'' according to Forbes.
 Mr. Davison told Forbes that he licensed a product every three days on average and that it often took a long time for a product to earn enough royalties to pay for his company's services. In March, a federal judge, ruling on the F.T.C.'s 1997 lawsuit, ordered the company to repay $26 million to inventors. The company appealed and Mr. Davison told Forbes that a settlement might be in the works. 

THE ATTENTION ECONOMY -- Josh Quittner, the editor of Business 2.0 magazine, this month defended paying his bloggers based in part on how much traffic they generated. ''If my writers start to write about things that are off topic, that are of no interest to a business readership, people won't come back,'' he explained to Bob Garfield, co-host of NPR's ''On the Media.'' (onthemedia.org)
 In a column on Huffington Post, the blogger and journalist Dan Shanoff called the setup ''sketchy.'' (huffingtonpost.com)
 So far, the new network of 17 blogs is free of paparazzi shots of Lindsey Lohan in a bikini. But getting attention has long been Job 1 at Business 2.0, and the blogs are no exception (blogs.business2.com/beta). The Cynical IT Guy blog is written by an anonymous author who swears a lot and berates readers as he crankily surveys the technology business. SINdustry Standard lumps together items about booze, tobacco, junk food, ''and other sinfully profitable wares'' such as pornography. 
 Most of the rest, though, discuss real estate, the environment, technology and other business topics. One, called the Waterlog, focuses on the nexus of business, technology and seafaring.

'I'M RICH, I'M RICH!' -- If you make $75,301 a year, you are the 49,205,295th richest person in the world, which puts you in the top 20 percent worldwide in terms of income. This data comes via the Global Rich List, a Web site created by Poke, a British interactive media company. Once the calculation is done, the site encourages newly wealthy-feeling users to give to charity. (globalrichlist.com) DAN MITCHELL

Complete links are at nytimes.com/business. E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ROYALTIES (89%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMAIL MARKETING (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); JUDGES (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Magazines; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Philanthropy; Computers and the Internet; Inventions and Patents

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%) Digg (Co); Inventionland (Co); Davison Design and Development; Federal Trade Commission; globalrichlist.com; Poke (co); Business 2.0 (Magazine)

PERSON: Josh Quittner; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



418 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Before the Holidays, a Passion for Mergers

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
MERGER activity was on the boil this week. A major airline that is itself the product of a recent merger offered to buy a competitor, a move that would reduce the number of airline seats and help carriers avoid savage fare wars. At the same time, some cash-flush private-equity funds independently swooped down on a major radio broadcaster and a big publisher.
 Retailers posted encouraging profits for the third quarter and consumer spending statistics suggest shoppers are eager to buy as the holiday shopping season is about to open. Robust discounting, however, may result in a disappointing fourth quarter.

TAKING A FLIER -- Having been rejected twice in private, US Airways went public with a hostile takeover bid for Delta Air Lines, offering to buy the much-larger airline out of bankruptcy protection for $8 billion in cash and stock.
While a deal faces several considerable obstacles -- including the resistance of Delta's management and a skeptical review by antitrust regulators -- success would produce the largest airline in the United States, eclipsing American Airlines, and the largest trans-Atlantic carrier as well. 
 Still, the offer injected new life into airline shares because it signaled the start of a long-anticipated industry consolidation. Fighting overcapacity and high fuel costs, airlines have lost billions since 2000; falling oil prices are addressing one problem, and fewer competitors would address the other.
 Less competition, of course, could mean higher fares as well as fewer empty seats, particularly in the South, where US Airways and Delta already dominate many markets.
 Analysts are already speculating about other potential pairings, saying that American could bid for Northwest and United may consider buying Continental.

MEDIA BUY -- Belying the conventional wisdom that traditional media have no future, a consortium of private equity investors led by Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain Capital bid $18.7 billion to win an auction for Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest network of radio stations.
 Including $8 billion in assumed debt, the deal has a total value of $26.7 billion, making it one of the largest media buyouts ever, topping a private equity consortium's $12 billion takeover of the Spanish-language broadcaster Univision earlier this year.
 Clear Channel owns 1,150 radio stations, including Z100 in New York and KIIS-FM in Los Angeles, as well as a substantial number of billboards and 42 television stations.
 To raise cash for the purchase, the new owners are expected to sell all of the TV stations and about a third of the radio stations -- all in small and midsize markets.

CHINA BEACHHEAD -- Citigroup teamed up with I.B.M. and a group of powerful Chinese state-owned companies to buy a controlling stake in the Guangdong Development Bank, the first time a foreign-led consortium has won the right to manage a major Chinese bank.
 The deal, under which the Citigroup team agreed to pay about $3.1 billion for 85.6 percent of the ailing Chinese lender, came after a contentious bidding war with a competing group led by Societe Generale, a large French bank.
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission must still approve the deal.

MORE OLD MEDIA -- Another private equity group, Ripplewood Holdings, agreed to buy the Reader's Digest Association, which publishes Reader's Digest and more than 20 other magazines, for $2.4 billion. Reader's Digest has a monthly circulation of 18 million and is published in 21 languages.
 Ripplewood already owns other publishers, including WRC Media, which prints Weekly Reader, The World Almanac, CompassLearning and other educational material.
 Private equity firms have announced more than 900 deals worth $289 billion in the United States so far this year. That is nearly twice the value of transactions made a year earlier, according to Dealogic, a financial data provider.

GOOD NEWS -- Retail and wholesale inflation slowed significantly last month, suggesting the Federal Reserve will not feel compelled to raise interest rates and risk curbing economic growth.
 Lower energy costs were the main reason for slower inflation of consumer prices. But at the wholesale level, falling prices were widespread. The cost of crude goods -- items in the earliest stages of production, like gravel, scrap metal or animals used for slaughter -- fell 10.5 percent in October, for example.
 Economists said the Federal Reserve would now closely monitor wages; if they continue to outpace prices, inflation could continue to worry the central bank.

SHOPPING SEASON -- Big retailers, led by Wal-Mart and Target, reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings, but the outlook for carrying that momentum into the crucial holiday shopping season was hurt by announcements of deep discounting that would squeeze profits.
 Wal-Mart, by far the country's largest retailer, promised its ''most aggressive pricing strategy ever'' between now and Christmas, for example. As a result, the shares of competitors, particularly electronics retailers like Circuit City, Best Buy and RadioShack, fell despite otherwise upbeat news.
 Analysts said Target might be able to avoid the pain of a price war because it was concentrated in northern states, not Wal-Mart's southern base, and because it attracted more affluent customers.

OPTIONS FLU -- Bruce E. Karatz, the chairman and chief executive of KB Home, one of the nation's largest home builders, resigned under pressure and agreed to return $13 million in profit from backdated stock options. Two other senior executives were also ousted, including the head of human resources, whom the company said worked with Mr. Karatz to set the dates for stock option grants.
 Mr. Karatz is the latest chief executive to fall victim to the so-called options backdating scandal, a corporate contagion that has cost at least 30 other executives and directors their jobs. More than 160 companies have said their stock option practices are under internal review or are being investigated by regulators.
 By allowing Mr. Karatz to retire rather than to resign or be fired, as the two other executives were, KB may intend to let him leave with full retirement benefits, analysts said.

A LEGEND PASSES -- Milton Friedman, one of the 20th century's leading economic scholars, the architect of money-supply theory in the postwar era, and a champion of conservative social policies, died. He was 94 years old.
 Conservative and liberal colleagues alike viewed Mr. Friedman on a par with giants like John Maynard Keynes, Joseph A. Schumpeter and Paul Samuelson. His work on using the money supply to manage economies earned him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1976.
 Funeral services are pending.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Nov. 11 through Nov. 17:

1. Frustration Grows at Carousel as More Baggage Goes Astray

2. Entrepreneurs See a Web Guided by Common Sense

3. How to Make Your Web Site Sing for You

4. Microsoft Counting on a Twist to Make Zune Shine in Shadow of iPod

5. With a Dish, Broadband Goes Rural

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The economist Milton Friedman and his wife, Rose, at a conference in Dallas in 2003. Mr. Friedman, the architect of money-supply theory after World War II, died this week. (Photo by John Freilich/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); BANKING IN CHINA (82%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (79%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR FARES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); AUCTIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Radio; Banks and Banking; Airlines and Airplanes; Magazines; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Retail Stores and Trade; Airlines and Airplanes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Economics; Credit

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (53%); GUANGDONG DEVELOPMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%) US Airways; Delta Air Lines; Lee, Thomas H, Partners; Bain Capital; Clear Channel Communications Inc; Citigroup Inc; International Business Machines Corp; Guangdong Development Bank; Reader's Digest Assn Inc; Ripplewood Holdings; Federal Reserve System; Kb Home (Co)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: Bruce E Karatz; Milton Friedman; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



419 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Hit 6-Year Low in October

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Home builders pulled back from an uninviting market last month, slowing the pace of residential construction even more than in recent months, to the lowest level in six years.
 The latest housing statistics, released yesterday by the Commerce Department, suggested that the months ahead would be equally bleak. The number of building permits issued in October fell for the ninth straight month, dipping to the lowest rate since 1997.
The report deepened concerns that the slowdown in the housing market could brake economic growth more than analysts have anticipated. 
 The number of new homes that builders started in October was down 14.6 percent from September, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, to 1.49 million. The number of building permits issued fell 6.3 percent, to 1.54 million.
 Yesterday's report shows a stark contrast from a year ago, when the housing market was still roaring. New residential construction has now plummeted by 27.4 percent from October last year. New building permits fell 28 percent over the same span.
 The only region of the country not to show considerable weakness last month was the Northeast, where the construction of apartments in New York and New Jersey helped cause a 31 percent jump in residential building for the month. Everywhere else saw a decline: the West, 2.1 percent; the Midwest, 11.7 percent; and the South, 26.4 percent.
 Economists disagree about whether home construction, sales and prices can fall much further, but some said yesterday that the new numbers suggested that the market was a long way from seeing any growth. 
 ''The only way builders appear to be able to stimulate demand and shift unsold inventory is by practically giving these newly built homes away,'' Capital Economics, a research firm in London, wrote in a note to investors. ''No wonder they now seem very reluctant to start building more homes.''
 In its latest survey, the National Association of Home Builders reported that builders were cutting prices with greater urgency than they were a year ago. In October, 28 percent of builders surveyed said they had lowered their prices by 5 to 10 percent, and another 8 percent said they had cut prices by more than 10 percent. 
 By contrast, in its September 2005 survey, the association reported that only 3 percent of builders in the country were discounting their homes by more than 5 percent.
 The sharpest decline in construction activity last month was in single-family houses rather than multifamily units and apartments. Economists said that was particularly alarming, because single-family houses are by far the biggest component of residential building. The number of single-family home starts was 31.8 percent lower in October than a year earlier. 
 ''Certainly this looks very much like a recessionary type of adjustment for this sector,'' said Brian A. Bethune, a United States economist with the research firm Global Insight. ''This data does not suggest that we're going to dodge a bullet. It does look severe.''
 For some economists, the data pointed to even slower growth in the months ahead. Ethan Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers, revised his prediction for fourth quarter gross domestic product to 2.5 percent from 2.8 percent.
 The price of United States government bonds posted their biggest gains yesterday in nearly three weeks, a sign that bond investors believe the economy will continue to slow. In a day of up and down trading, the stock market shrugged off the signs of a deepening slowdown in housing.
 With other areas of the economy holding up -- the job market is relatively healthy, consumer spending continues to rise and gasoline prices have fallen -- many economists are hopeful that the effects of a sagging housing market will be contained. 
 ''Outside of housing, the economy looks quite good,'' said Marisa DiNatale, an economist with Moody's Economy.com. ''So we think the economy is going to weather this.''
 Economists said that in one sense, the decline in building activity last month showed that builders were getting the message and setting themselves up for a quicker recovery. Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist with Bank of America, said the deceleration last month could be a ''silver lining'' that would help builders sell off the huge backlog of unsold new homes.


GRAPHIC: Photo: New home building fell in all regions of the country in October except for the Northeast, where the construction of apartments increased. (Photo by Tannen Maury/European Pressphoto Agency)Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.OcotoberStarts: 1.486Permits: 1.535Graph tracks new private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); BUILDING PERMITS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



420 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2280 words

HEADLINE: Preaching Free-Market Gospel to Skeptical Africa

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: BUKURA, Kenya 

 BODY:
Lawrence W. Reed's unusual line of work, coaching conservative policy groups, has left Mr. Reed, a Michigan economist, with acolytes across the globe. But none please him more than James Shikwati, whose unlikely rise offers a case study of how the right grooms foreign allies.
 Mr. Shikwati was a young teacher in western Kenya when he came across an article by Mr. Reed on the genius of capitalism. In this isolated village where Mr. Shikwati was raised, life revolved around mud huts and maize, not smokestacks. Still he dashed off a note to Midland, Mich., where Mr. Reed runs a think tank that promotes conservative economics and offers a program teaching others to do the same.
''Do you assist individuals who would like to know more about the free market and individual liberty?'' Mr. Shikwati wrote. 
 Over the next four years, Mr. Reed sent books, reports, magazines, tracts -- even occasional sums of money -- as Mr. Shikwati embraced capitalist theory with a passion. Then he started a one-man think tank of his own. 
 On a continent where socialists have often held sway, Mr. Shikwati is now a conservative phenomenon. He has published scores of articles hailing business as Africa's salvation; offered free-market lectures on five continents; and, defying the zeitgeist of the Bono age, issued scathing attacks on foreign assistance, which he blames for Africa's poverty. When Western countries pledged to double African aid last year, an interview with an angry Mr. Shikwati filled two pages of Der Spiegel, the German magazine. 
 ''For God's sake, please stop the aid!'' he told the magazine.
 So modest was Mr. Shikwati's start in the policy world, he walked nine miles on muddy roads just to get Mr. Reed's e-mail messages. Yet nine months after he started his group, Western supporters flew him to the United States, where he joined a dinner of the conservative Heritage Foundation and toasted an A-list crowd that included Edwin Meese III, the former attorney general. 
 The unusual collaboration between a Midwestern mentor and his African protege can be read in contrasting lights -- as a crafty effort to export Western dominance or an idealistic joining of minds in the cause of freedom. While Mr. Reed salutes his protege as a ''passionate advocate for liberty in an unlikely place,'' Jeffrey D. Sachs, a Columbia University professor who is a leading aid advocate, calls Mr. Shikwati's criticisms of foreign assistance ''shockingly misguided'' and ''amazingly wrong.'' 
 ''This happens to be a matter of life and death for millions of people, so getting it wrong has huge consequences,'' Mr. Sachs said. 
 Mr. Shikwati's group, the Inter Region Economic Network, or IREN, is part of a global span of policy groups that Western conservatives have helped build over the past quarter-century. Operating in as many as 70 countries, with varying degrees of outside support, these institutes push a wide array of free-market prescriptions, including lower taxes, less regulation and freer trade. 
 They have strengthened property rights in Peru, aided the privatization of state-owned companies in Egypt, protested union power in France and led the way in halving the Lithuanian corporate income tax. 
 As the architect of Slovakia's flat tax, the F. A. Hayek Foundation drew a visit from Steve Forbes, the former presidential aspirant. He labeled the country an ''investor's paradise'' in ''no small part because of the foundation's work.'' 
 The movement even has a venture capital arm, the Atlas Economic Research Foundation in Arlington, Va.: over the last decade, it has given groups like Mr. Shikwati's more than $17 million.
 While conservative think tanks are in the American mainstream, their foreign counterparts often push ideas held in distrust. In translating Friedrich von Hayek's works, the Research Center for Entrepreneurship Development in Vietnam is bringing an uber-capitalist to a communist state.
 Articulate, energetic, gifted at making friends, Mr. Shikwati, 36, is one of the brightest new stars on this little-studied circuit. In just five years, he has made his byline a ubiquitous presence on the country's op-ed pages and gained enough respectability to get government ministers to speak at his conferences. Still, not even Mr. Shikwati claims to have changed the direction of Kenyan policy. His greater influence may be exercised abroad, in forums like that of Der Spiegel, where he gives Western conservatives the added credibility that comes with having an eloquent African ally.
 Mr. Sachs said such anti-aid arguments ''have slowed life-saving interventions.'' Peter Smerden, a spokesman for a United Nations food program, said Mr. Shikwati's policies would ''kill millions of people.'' Irungu Houghton, an Oxfam official in Nairobi, said they would consign poor Africans to ''a major death sentence.'' 
 Mr. Shikwati said, ''I get all these letters, 'I saw the children with flies in their eyes -- how can you be so cruel?' '' He responds with the calm of true belief: ''We have to stop looking for other people to save us. We need to look for ways to save ourselves.''

A Business Cure to Fight Malaria
 Mr. Shikwati is hoping to do just that here in Bukura with a plan to fight malaria, a disease that kills 800,000 African children a year. He is not just running a think tank, he said, but a ''do tank,'' too, since he said Africans will buy his theories only after they see results. One theory is that business, not aid, can best fight poverty and disease.
 To prove it, he is trying to commercialize the anti-malaria effort by hiring Bukura youths to spray homes with pesticides. For about 75 cents, villagers can get an introductory treatment, with subsequent sprayings running $4.25 every six months. That is twice the average daily wage of a Kenyan laborer, but cheaper than the $17 it takes to treat a malaria case here.
 As the business grows, Mr. Shikwati sees a dawning cycle of virtue: medical savings will buy fertilizer and seed; profits from the fields will bankroll businesses; and the emerging proto-middle class will lobby the government for freer markets, reinforcing the prosperity loop.
 It all starts by getting villagers to pay, which Mr. Shikwati argues will ''change people's attitudes.'' With no electricity, running water or paved roads, Bukura seemed an unlikely scene of social transformation as Mr. Shikwati arrived for a visit a few months ago. Smoke from outdoor kitchens clouded the air, and a former schoolteacher was sitting on a crate, blind from drinking home brew.
 The first stop was the home of Theresa Bakhoya, a teacher's wife who has been raising seven children amid frequent outbreaks of the disease. ''Since they sprayed my house, I've had no more malaria attacks,'' she said. A similar endorsement came from Wilberforce Mutokaa, who lives in a mud hut decorated with a poster of the evangelist T. D. Jakes.
 Yet for all the talk of commercialization, neither of the villagers paid. To recruit clients, a local sprayer explained, he made the first treatment free. ''I'm not disappointed at all,'' Mr. Shikwati said. As villagers see the benefits, ''I promise you there will be spraying on a commercialized basis.''
 Mr. Shikwati has another ''do tank'' project in the arid Ukambani region of eastern Kenya, an area of chronic famine and food aid. Urging subsistence farmers to invest in new crops, he has two purposes in mind. One is to improve yields. The other is to create markets, by showing suppliers they can profit from selling to the poor.
 ''Then we can say, 'See, selfish people interested in profit have finally got the Ukambani people eating,' '' he said.
 At a farmers' cooperative in the Kalawani district, about 100 miles east of Nairobi, a dozen or so members gave the theory a go. Spending $40 of pooled money on fertilizer and seed, they invested in a cabbage patch, but only sold about $7 worth of cabbage, a loss of more than 80 percent. They are now trying to grow saplings, which they hope to sell to nurseries. ''We'll keep trying -- everything is trying,'' Stella Musau said. 
 Mr. Shikwati said their perseverance alone was a sign of progress. ''In business, when you invest in something that doesn't work, you don't quit -- you try your hand at something else,'' he said.

A Capitalist Is Born in Kenya
 Mr. Shikwati's conversion to capitalism started with a rejection letter. As a 27-year-old teacher in a rural high school, he applied to dozens of American graduate schools and gained admittance to none. But one rejection came with a book, ''The Law'' by Frederic Bastiat.
 A 19th-century, French, pamphlet-length attack on the state, ''The Law'' enjoys something close to a cult following among some libertarians. It describes taxes and regulation as ''legal plunder,'' and sees tyranny at work in laws that force citizens to support public schools. ''Try liberty,'' it demands.
 '' 'The Law' just spun me around,'' said Mr. Shikwati, who flirted with socialism at the University of Nairobi and made the book's translation into Swahili one of his group's first projects. ''It showed me I was believing in the wrong things.''
 Mr. Shikwati wrote to the book's nonprofit publisher and received a journal with a column by Mr. Reed. Many busy people would have ignored the letter that soon landed on Mr. Reed's desk. (''Exactly what does the Mackinac Center for Public Policy do for the citizenship of the world?'' Mr. Shikwati asked, referring to Mr. Reed's group.)
 But Mr. Reed, 53, runs a conservative ''think-tank school'' that twice a year draws allies from across the globe. In answering, he began a four-year correspondence. ''This is how the movement grows,'' he said.
 By 2001, with Mr. Reed's help, Mr. Shikwati landed two grants totaling about $9,500 a year, one from Atlas and one from a related British group, the International Policy Network. IREN now has a budget of $300,000 and seven full-time employees.
 With no academic credentials, Mr. Shikwati made a mark as an author of opinion articles. He defended McDonald's against critics of globalization and drug companies against charges of price gouging. He called for the legalization of the ivory trade, which he argues would protect elephant herds. Above all, he called for an end to foreign aid, saying it hurt local markets, corrupted governments and promoted dependency. 
 His iconoclasm and his authenticity as an African made Mr. Shikwati attractive to the Western press, despite his lack of prominence at home. His views quickly traveled the globe, appearing in places as diverse as The Sydney Morning Herald, The Jerusalem Post, The Times of London, Forbes and The Washington Post. 
 Echoing his calls to end foreign aid, Suzanne Fields of The Washington Times lauded Mr. Shikwati, who has a bachelor's degree in education and no economics training, as nothing less than ''a distinguished Kenyan economist.''

Critics and Admirers
 Critics see a sleight of hand, in which Western conservatives created a faux expert, then cite him to justify their views. 
 ''The truly hard-hearted have been looking for a developing country 'economist' to sing this song for years,'' said Neil Gallagher, a spokesman for the United Nations World Food Program in Rome, which feeds about three million Kenyans a year. ''It justifies their meanness.''
 Mr. Sachs of Columbia University said Mr. Shikwati was ''part of a game'' the conservative movement played to create an impression that Africans oppose foreign help. Although he agrees that some aid programs have failed, he said others had eradicated smallpox, slashed polio rates and started Asia's green revolution, saving hundreds of millions of people from famine.
 Even Mr. Shikwati's African admirers tend to distance themselves from his absolutism. Maggie Kamau-Biruri, who runs the Kenya office of the International Child Resource Institute, a nonprofit group, finds it hard to talk of less government in a country without enough paved roads and no public high schools. But ''I really like him a lot,'' she said. ''He means well and wants to see his country move forward.''
 Enamored of Mr. Shikwati's success, Mr. Reed recently took his think-tank school to Nairobi, offering an abbreviated session to participants from Kenya, Zambia, Ethiopia and Tanzania. The following day, Mr. Shikwati took him to Africa Nazarene University, where a student group he helped lead had privatized the campus canteen and formed an exchange to trade its stock.
 The students then took them to an orphanage, whose dire conditions framed the aid debate in especially urgent terms. The St. Paul's Children's Home cares for 50 children, mostly AIDS orphans, in two small rooms, where some sleep three to a bed, and it lacks amenities as basic as running water and electricity. The students are teaching the orphans to recycle Christmas cards. The profits, about $115 so far, have helped pay one boy's tuition at a private high school, since free education ends after eighth grade.
 Critics like Ms. Kamau-Biruri see such mass destitution as evidence of why Kenya needs a government safety net. But Mr. Shikwati said the poverty showed that government fails -- in this case by mismanaging an economy better left alone. For Mr. Reed, the orphanage also bolstered his antigovernment views; he saw ''wonderful images of progress'' in the student's voluntarism.
 Before leaving Kenya, Mr. Reed visited his protege's new office, where the reading nook is called the Lawrence Reed Library. ''James, I'm probably as thrilled with your progress as you are,'' he said.
 Mr. Shikwati beamed. ''Ever since we corresponded, my strength to change Africa is so strong,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about James Shikwati, a Kenyan who founded a conservative policy group and has criticized foreign aid to Africa, misspelled the surname of a spokesman for a United Nations food program. He is Peter Smerdon, not Smerden.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mosquito nets provided by the Rural Youth Empowerment League help protect Theresa Bakhoya, left, and her seven children from malaria. Five African countries sent representatives to the first Africa Think Tank conference, right.
 James Shikwati, executive director of the Inter Regional Economic Network, talked to Kenyan farmers about a spring. (Photographs by Mariella Furrer for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CASE STUDIES (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Surveys and Series; Economic Conditions and Trends; Conservatism (US Politics); Think Tanks; Capitalism; Foreign Aid ; Free Ports and Trading Zones

PERSON: Jason Deparle; Lawrence W Reed; James Shikwati

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) AFRICA (97%); KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Africa; Kenya; Africa

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



421 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Katrina's Purgatory

 BODY:
Excuses sound hollow when you're trapped in a flimsy trailer. For Gulf Coast residents waiting for long-promised government housing assistance, patience has given way to anger, and anguish. What is clear more than a year after Hurricane Katrina is that their needs -- and the demand for action from the American public -- have largely gone unmet. 
 In Louisiana, only 28 families have received their share of the federal dollars intended to help them repair or replace their homes. After a local uproar, and a strict new deadline from the governor, the number of residents approved for funds is now just under 5,000 -- out of nearly 78,000 applications.
Louisiana's housing reconstruction authority should not bear all of the blame for this problem. All the gears of government grind too slowly for the victims of the storm. It took the Bush administration nearly six months to request the necessary rebuilding funds. Congress hemmed and hawed until June before approving the legislation. Down the coast, Mississippi's program has also been plagued with delays. 
 The federal housing money alone is not going to solve the difficulties faced by Katrina's victims, particularly in New Orleans. The normal market mechanisms on the Gulf Coast have been shattered, and they need to be repaired if Katrina's victims have any hope of putting their lives back together. Local banks are filling up with a reserve of billions of dollars in private insurance money. The Louisiana Recovery Authority points out that many victims who have been approved for help still have yet to ask for their checks.
 Some people have shown amazing faith and determination, pressing on and putting construction costs on their credit cards. But other residents, in spite of their will to rebuild, are unable to use the funds for a host of reasons. Contractors are nearly impossible to find, and high prices reflect their scarcity. Insurance rates are rising to levels unaffordable for the average homeowner. Many victims have missed bill payments or lost sources of income, hurting their creditworthiness and leading to higher interest rates on any loans they might need.
 The normal hard decisions of real estate are amplified a thousand times by the possibility that a house in an empty neighborhood in a broken city could be worthless. Imagine every house in your neighborhood is damaged or destroyed. The average government award in Louisiana is $60,200, and it will cost more than that to replace your house, and more than it was worth before the storm, when every house on the block was whole and children played out front. Do you rebuild?
 The president's Katrina czar, Donald Powell, is soft-spoken and deliberative. Those qualities have served him well in the past, but not now. As the government's emissary (and the former head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), he has a powerful pulpit and the ability to summon all the key players -- major lenders, buyers of loans like the large investment banks and Fannie Mae, and federal regulators -- to help fix the system. Mr. Powell needs to speak out more forcefully and act more aggressively.
 The ruin of a region and the historic city of New Orleans could not be more important, and the tangle of destruction is nowhere near unwound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Katrina (Storm); Housing ; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



422 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. WILL ALLOW BREAST IMPLANTS MADE OF SILICONE

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL; Denise Grady contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration yesterday lifted a 14-year ban on the use of silicone gel breast implants in the United States after decades of contentious debate and litigation over their safety.
 The federal agency approved implants manufactured by two California companies, Mentor and Allergan, for breast reconstruction and cosmetic breast augmentation, but limited cosmetic use of the implants to women ages 22 and older.
The decision appeared to end a controversy over the safety of silicone implants that lasted more than two decades and resulted in thousands of lawsuits by women who claimed the implants leaked and caused a number of diseases, including cancer and rheumatoid arthritis. The dispute led to the bankruptcy of the manufacturer Dow Corning, a federal moratorium on the use of the implants, and, finally, findings by both the Institute of Medicine and the Food and Drug Administration that the devices do not cause major illnesses.
 Because the implants made of silicone gel are softer than the saline implants currently available, plastic surgeons said they would quickly become preferred among the more than 300,000 women in this country who have breast implants each year. 
 Critics of the decision lambasted it and said that longstanding safety concerns had not been resolved. But supporters of the implants, including leading surgeons, applauded it.
 ''For us, it's a triumph of science,'' said Dr. Richard A. D'Amico of Engelwood, N.J., president-elect of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. ''We've always felt that the science would bear out the use of the implants.''
 Dr. Daniel G. Schultz, director of the F.D.A.'s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said that the agency's review, based on company-sponsored studies as well as long-term use of the implants abroad, had determined that their sale is in the best interest of women. 
 But Dr. Schultz warned that no device is foolproof and that there was a possibility that women would have to have the implants replaced at some point, sometimes because they rupture. Studies have found that the majority of women with silicone implants would have a rupture at some point. According to the federal agency, one study found that 69 percent of women had a rupture.
 ''Women should know that breast implants are not lifetime devices,'' he said in a telephone briefing for reporters last night. 
 ''Women having these procedures done need to be prepared for the fact that there is a likelihood they will require additional surgery,'' he said.
 He also recommended regular M.R.I.'s to monitor the devices for ''silent rupture,'' which can occur without a woman's knowledge. He said the first M.R.I. should be performed when the implants are 3 years old. Because many of the procedures are cosmetic, it was not clear whether those M.R.I.'s would be covered by insurance.
 Critics of the agency said yesterday that the devices should not have been approved, and cited the same safety concerns that have dogged the devices for years. 
 Dr. Sidney Wolfe, chief of Public Citizen's Health Research Group, which claimed in the 1980s that breast implants cause cancer, called the implants ''the most defective medical device ever approved by the F.D.A. The approval makes a mockery of the legal standard that requires 'reasonable assurance of safety.' '' 
 Amy Allina, program director at the National Women's Health Network, also sharply criticized the decision, saying that the federal agency had approved the implants even though the manufacturers had failed to answer basic safety questions, such as exactly how long implants would last without rupturing, and whether there would be health effects if the silicone leaked out and traveled to other parts of the body.
 She predicted that the companies would begin a ''massive, massive marketing campaign,'' and that women might be taken in by it and assume that the F.D.A.'s stamp of approval means implants are safe.
 Mentor Corporation of Santa Barbara, Calif., which calls its product Memory Gel, had already initiated one Web site last night to advertise the product: Mentor4Me.com. The site has a function allowing patients to find a plastic surgeon.
 Defending the decision to lift the ban, Dr. Schultz said, ''We have been looking at this data continuously for the last 10 years. We have been watching as data had been collected, we have been watching as data has accumulated. We believe that from a scientific standpoint, the decision that we're making tonight is, in fact, in the best interest of American women.''
 But he said the agency would require the companies to conduct post-approval studies involving a total of 80,000 women to continue monitoring the safety of the implants. He said that information would be collected about rates of rupture, cancer and autoimmune diseases and effects of the implants on reproduction. That would enable the agency to evaluate concerns about the implants in a large number of women.
 But Ms. Allina questioned the validity of such studies. ''The F.D.A. has no credibility to assert post-approval studies will be any better,'' Ms. Allina said. ''Once again, the F.D.A. is putting the interests of this administration's allies, the economic interests of the industry, over public health.''
 The agency approved the devices for all women for reconstruction following breast cancer, trauma, or for developmental disorders affecting the chest. But the agency said that they would not be available to women under 22 for cosmetic use.
 ''We wanted to make sure that breast development had been completed before these devices had been implanted,'' Dr. Schultz said, adding that the agency also did not have clinical data on younger women. ''We concluded that age 22 was the appropriate age for the lower limit for augmentation.''
 Some surgeons, who have participated in studies, will be able to implant the devices as early as Monday. For others, there will be a wait of up to several weeks because the F.D.A. is requiring them to participate in a training program before receiving shipments.
 Silicone breast implants were available in the United States as early as the 1960s. Following complaints and lawsuits in the 1970s and 1980s that the devices ruptured and became hard and painful and that some women developed cancer and autoimmune diseases, implant makers agreed to take their products off the market in the United States in 1992, except for treating mastectomy patients and in some other special cases and only when the patients were enrolled in clinical studies.
 Eventually, thousands of women in this country and elsewhere sued the manufacturers of breast implants, resulting in class-action settlements by several companies, including 3M, Baxter, Bristol-Myers and Dow Corning. All got out of the silicone breast implant business.
 In 1999, the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, said that while the implants could rupture and become hard and painful, there was no definitive evidence that they were associated with serious diseases, including autoimmune disease or cancer.
 Dr. Scott L. Spear, the chief of plastic surgery at Georgetown University who has conducted clinical research for Allergan of Irvine, Calif., said the devices had been improved. 
 ''The shells themselves are made of different materials, a barrier shell, that is relatively much more impermeable,'' Dr. Spear said. ''The shells are thicker than in '91, much thicker than they were in earlier generations. The material inside is more cohesive, the stuff tends to stick together.''
 In Canada, which also withdrew the devices, the implants were cleared for sale and implantation in October.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Silicone Implants: An Off-Again, On-Again History''Silicone implants gained popularity in the early 1960s as a way of augmenting breast size. By the 1990s, about two million women had received them and 100,000 to 150,000 were receiving implants each year.January 1992 -- Amid rising concerns about safety, the Food and Drug Administration asks manufacturers and physicians to voluntarily halt the sale of silicone breast implants.March 1992 -- Dow Corning stops manufacturing the implants.April 1992 -- F.D.A. approves limited use of implants, but only for mastectomy patients being monitored in clinical studies.March 1994 -- Implant makers and plaintiffs agree on a settlement fund that will pay $4 billion over 30 years to women claiming they were injured.October 1994 -- Researchers at Harvard and the University of Maryland find no association between silicone implants and autoimmune diseases.May 1995 -- Dow Corning files for bankruptcy protection, citing ''the potentially enormous financial and management drain'' of the implant litigation.March 1998 -- F.D.A. approves a study by Allergan for silicone-filled implants for breast reconstruction only.June 1999 -- A panel convened by the Institute of Medicine finds no evidence that silicone implants cause any major disease.August 2000 -- F.D.A. approves a study by Mentor for implants for a limited number of patients.December 2002 -- Allergan applies for approval to market its siliconegel- filled breast implants.October 2003 -- An F.D.A. panel recommends approval of Allergan's application, with conditions.December 2003 -- Mentor applies for approval to market implants.April 2005 -- An F.D.A. panel recommends against an updated application by Allergan but in favor of Mentor's, with conditions.July 2005 -- F.D.A. issues preliminary approval to Mentor.September 2005 -- F.D.A. issues preliminary approval to Allergan.November 2006 -- F.D.A. issues final approval to both companies.(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CHEMICALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); WOMEN (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); CANCER (73%); ARTHRITIS (73%); APPROVALS (72%) Breast; Implants; Silicone; Suits and Litigation; Plastic Surgery; Bankruptcies; Breast

COMPANY: ALLERGAN INC (58%); DOW CORNING CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%) Food and Drug Administration; Mentor Corp; Allergan Inc; Dow Corning Corp; Institute of Medicine

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (56%)

PERSON: Stephanie Saul

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



423 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: City Approves 'Carbon Tax' In Effort to Reduce Gas Emissions 

BYLINE: By KATIE KELLEY

DATELINE: BOULDER, Colo., Nov. 14 

 BODY:
Voters in this liberal college town have approved what environmentalists say may be the nation's first ''carbon tax,'' intended to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases. 
 The tax, to take effect on April 1, will be based on the number of kilowatt-hours used. Officials say it will add $16 a year to an average homeowner's electricity bill and $46 for businesses.
City officials said the revenue from the tax -- an estimated $6.7 million by 2012, when the goal is to have reduced carbon emissions by 350,000 metric tons -- would be collected by the main gas and electric utility, Xcel Energy, and funneled through the city's Office of Environmental Affairs . 
 The tax is to pay for the ''climate action plan,'' efforts to ''increase energy efficiency in homes and buildings, switch to renewable energy and reduce vehicle miles traveled,'' the city's environmental affairs manager, Jonathan Koehn, said. 
 The goal is to reduce the carbon levels to 7 percent less than those in 1990, which amounts to a 24 percent reduction from current levels, Mr. Koehn said.
 ''The climate action plan serves as the roadmap to meet our reduction goal,'' he said. 
 The tax grew out of efforts by a committee of residents and members of the City Council and Chamber of Commerce to try to enable Boulder to reach goals set by the United Nations Kyoto Protocol, which seeks to curb global warming. 
 The protocol requires 35 developing nations to reduce their emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide. The world's top two polluters, the United States and China, have not signed the pact. 
 The Boulder environmental sustainability coordinator, Sarah Van Pelt,, said residents who used alternative sources of electricity like wind power would receive a discount on the tax based on the amount of the alternative power used. 
 A total of 5,600 residents and 210 businesses use wind power, Ms. Van Pelt said.
 A program similar to Boulder's began in Oregon in 2001. There, a 3 percent fee is assessed on electricity bills by the two largest investor-owned utilities, said Michael Armstrong, a policy analyst in the Portland Office of Sustainable Development. 
 The tens of millions of dollars is transferred to the Energy Trust of Oregon, a nonprofit organization rather than the state government. The trust distributes cash incentives to businesses and residents for using alternative sources like solar and wind power, biomass energy and structural improvements to improve efficiency. 
 Mr. Armstrong said that although Portland had several programs for ''sustainable living,'' it had not enacted a carbon tax and that he knew of no other American city with one. 
 ''We are interested to see how it plays out and see what we can learn from that,'' he said of the Boulder tax. ''We certainly follow other local governments, and there are lots of innovative initiatives all over the country. It's a great exchange among local communities.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Nov. 18 about a vote in Boulder, Colo., to approve a so-called carbon tax misstated the positions of China and the United States on the Kyoto Protocol. Both have indeed signed the treaty and China has also ratified it, but the United States has not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CITIES (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (88%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (74%); REFERENDUMS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) Weather; Elections; Referendums; Carbon Dioxide; Taxation; Air Pollution; Electric Light and Power; Global Warming

COMPANY: XCEL ENERGY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%)

PERSON: Katie Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%) Boulder (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



424 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Big Conference on Warming Ends, Achieving Modest Results

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Jeffrey Gettleman reported from Nairobi, Kenya, and Andrew Revkin from Columbus, Ohio.

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
The yearly United Nations conference on climate change ended Friday with only modest results after delegates failed to establish a timetable for future cuts on pollution linked to global warming.
 Despite nearly two weeks of meetings, which drew 6,000 participants to Nairobi from around the world, the delegates could not agree on a number of issues, especially how to move beyond the Kyoto Protocol, which requires cuts in emissions by most industrialized countries but expires in 2012.
Two persistent problems were American reluctance to agree to any mandatory emissions limits and increased stubbornness by China and India, two of the world's fastest-growing polluters, which face no penalties under the Kyoto agreement for all the heat-trapping gases they pump into the atmosphere. 
 Even under conservative projections, scientists predict several degrees of warming this century, and possibly much more, which could shift precipitation patterns, disrupt agriculture and wildlife and eventually melt ice sheets, raising the level of the oceans and submerging low-lying coasts.Delegates from outside the United States expressed growing frustration with the Bush administration's environmental policy, saying that without clear signals from the world's largest source of air pollution, other countries would hesitate to move ahead. The United States is one of the few countries that has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
 But Paula J. Dobriansky, the top American official at the conference, stood firm, saying that the best way to battle global warming was a mix of voluntary partnerships between developing and wealthy countries that foster economic growth while limiting pollution.
 ''The most effective strategies on climate change are those that are integrated with economic growth, with energy security, and reducing air pollution,'' said Ms. Dobriansky, under secretary of state for global affairs and democracy.
 Jennifer Morgan, who directs energy and climate programs for E3G, a London-based environmental group, said that a letter sent to President Bush from three influential Democratic senators on Wednesday -- and widely distributed in the conference halls -- provided at least a hint that a shift might be possible in Washington. 
 The letter, from Barbara Boxer of California, Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, said Democrats would push to pass binding restrictions on greenhouse gases, starting in January when they take control of Congress. ''If we are to leave our children a world that resembles the earth we inherited, we must act now,'' they wrote. 
 ''The senators' letter was very influential and welcome here,'' Ms. Morgan said. 
 Another central theme at the conference, reflecting its African site, was the importance of increasing aid to the world's poorest countries to help them adapt to climate changes.
 Many African communities are already feeling the effects of a shifting climate, from increased droughts to more desertification to spreading malaria, one of the continent's biggest killers. The irony is that these countries most vulnerable to climate change are the least responsible for it, because they have little industry and produce a relatively small amount of pollution.
 Though delegates began to discuss the ins and outs of an adaptation fund to aid developing nations, key decisions for the fund were postponed until next year. World Bank economists estimate that it will cost billions of dollars to help the developing world deal with climate change, but right now the adaptation fund stands at only $3 million.
 ''The conference has let Africa and the rest of the developing world down,'' said a statement from Oxfam, a large aid and advocacy group.
 In a sign of how incremental the progress was, conference organizers said one of the biggest achievements this year was agreeing to review the Kyoto Protocol next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); DROUGHT (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LAND DEGRADATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MALARIA (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (53%); JEFF BINGAMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (88%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



425 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Big Conference on Warming Ends, Achieving Modest Results

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Jeffrey Gettleman reported from Nairobi, Kenya, and Andrew C. Revkin from Columbus, Ohio.

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov. 17 -- The yearly United Nations conference on climate change ended Friday with only modest results after delegates failed to establish a timetable for future cuts on pollution linked to global warming.
 Despite nearly two weeks of meetings, which drew 6,000 participants to Nairobi from around the world, the delegates could not agree on a number of issues, especially how to move beyond the Kyoto Protocol. The treaty's mandatory limits on greenhouse-gas emissions by most industrialized countries expire in 2012.
Two persistent problems were American reluctance to agree to any mandatory emissions limits and increased stubbornness by China and India, two of the world's fastest-growing polluters, which face no penalties under the Kyoto agreement for all the heat-trapping gases they pump into the atmosphere. 
 Even under conservative projections, scientists predict several degrees of warming this century, and possibly much more, which could shift precipitation patterns, disrupt agriculture and wildlife and eventually melt ice sheets, raising the level of the oceans and submerging low-lying coasts.Delegates from outside the United States expressed growing frustration with the Bush administration's environmental policy, saying that without clear signals from the world's largest source of air pollution, other countries would hesitate to move ahead. The United States is one of the few countries that has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
 But Paula J. Dobriansky, the top American official at the conference, stood firm, saying that the best way to battle global warming was a mix of voluntary partnerships between developing and wealthy countries that foster economic growth while limiting pollution.
 ''The most effective strategies on climate change are those that are integrated with economic growth, with energy security, and reducing air pollution,'' said Ms. Dobriansky, under secretary of state for global affairs and democracy.
 Jennifer Morgan, who directs energy and climate programs for E3G, a London-based environmental group, said that a letter sent to President Bush from three influential Democratic senators on Wednesday -- and widely distributed in the conference halls -- provided at least a hint that a shift might be possible in Washington. 
 The letter, from Barbara Boxer of California, Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, said Democrats would push to pass binding restrictions on greenhouse gases, starting in January when they take control of Congress. ''If we are to leave our children a world that resembles the earth we inherited, we must act now,'' they wrote. 
 ''The senators' letter was very influential and welcome here,'' Ms. Morgan said. 
 Another central theme at the conference, reflecting its African site, was the importance of increasing aid to the world's poorest countries to help them adapt to climate changes.
 Many African communities are already feeling the effects of a shifting climate, from increased droughts to more desertification to spreading malaria, one of the continent's biggest killers. The irony is that these countries most vulnerable to climate change are the least responsible for it, because they have little industry and produce a relatively small amount of pollution.
 Though delegates began to discuss the ins and outs of an adaptation fund to aid developing nations, key decisions for the fund were postponed until next year. World Bank economists estimate that it will cost billions of dollars to help the developing world deal with climate change, but right now the adaptation fund stands at only $3 million.
 ''The conference has let Africa and the rest of the developing world down,'' said a statement from Oxfam, a large aid and advocacy group.
 In a sign of how incremental the progress was, conference organizers said one of the biggest achievements this year was agreeing to review the Kyoto Protocol next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); DROUGHT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); AIR QUALITY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAND DEGRADATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (52%); JEFF BINGAMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



426 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Tension and Restrictions Grow in the West Bank
The separation barrier Israel has been building just inside the West Bank boundary has drawn protests from Palestinians. But less notice has been paid to even more restrictive measures deeper inside the West Bank that heighten the daily friction between Palestinian civilians and Israeli soldiers. A1

A Search for Abducted Guards 

American and British military forces battled gunmen in southern Iraq while searching for four American private security guards and their Austrian colleague who were abducted from a supply convoy on Thursday by men in Iraqi police uniforms, American officials said. A1

James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state who is now Republican co-chairman of a bipartisan group examining strategic options in Iraq, has met several times with Syrian officials, trying to gain their cooperation with the United States, the Syrian ambassador in Washington said. A9

Dutch Consider Banning Burqas
Five days before a national election, the Netherlands' center-right government said it planned to introduce legislation to ban burqas and similar garments in public places. A3

Bush Praises Vietnam's Rise
President Bush, visiting Vietnam, a country that forced the United States into a humiliating withdrawal three decades ago, said the country's transition to a modern, growing economy gave him hope about what could be rebuilt from the ruins of Iraq. A6

NATIONAL A11-15

F.D.A. Lifts 14-Year Ban On Silicone Breast Implants
The Food and Drug Administration lifted a 14-year ban on the use of silicone gel breast implants in the United States after decades of contentious debate and litigation over their safety. A1

Republicans Choose a Leader
House Republicans re-elected their top leadership team to carry on as the party moves into the minority. Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, above, was chosen as minority leader over Mike Pence, a conservative congressman from Indiana. A15

In the Montana State Legislature, the balance of power is so delicate that a single person can change it, and a veteran state senator who was re-elected last week as a Republican did just that. A11

Judge Rules Against The Times
A federal magistrate judge ruled that The New York Times may not rely on information its columnist Nicholas D. Kristof may have received from two Federal Bureau of Investigation officials in its defense of a defamation suit brought by a former government scientist. A11

Carbon Tax in Colorado
Voters in Boulder, Colo., have approved what environmentalists say may be the nation's first ''carbon tax,'' intended to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases. Officials say it will add $16 a year to an average homeowner's electricity bill. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Man Who Knew Hijackers Is Acquitted of Perjury
A California man whose arrest, detention and prosecution raised questions about the limits of government antiterror powers after 9/11 was acquitted in federal court in Manhattan on charges of lying to a grand jury investigating the attacks more than five years ago. B1

On Religion B5

Neediest Cases B5

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

China Car Market Grows
China is passing Japan as the world's second-largest vehicle market this year, but it might not be big enough to support all the homegrown manufacturers and the foreign automakers trying to do business there. C1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES C9-10

Ruth Brown
The gutsy rhythm-and-blues singer who won a Tony Award for ''Black and Blue,'' she was 78. C10

Bo Schembechler
The coach who took the University of Michigan to 13 Big Ten championships and a host of bowl appearances, he was 77. C9

ARTS B7-16

Another Masterwork Sold
The hedge fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen bought the de Kooning painting ''Woman III'' for roughly $137.5 million. B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Katrina's purgatory; 99.5 percent like a Neanderthal; a photo finish in Connecticut; Carla Anne Robbins on waiting for Jim Baker.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, Thomas B. Edsall.

Bridge B14
Crossword B13
TV Listings B16
Weather A12

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (88%); LEGISLATION (77%); HIJACKING (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MAGISTRATES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (72%); JUDGES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (69%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); LIBEL & SLANDER (63%); EMISSIONS (63%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (61%); ACQUITTAL (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); VIET NAM (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



427 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Goes to Washington, but Doesn't Make a Sale

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE top executives of America's Big Three automakers met with President Bush this week to plead for help in becoming more competitive. They got a sympathetic ear but little in the way of promises for immediate relief to address the long-term problems facing the industry. 
 On the same day that the men journeyed to the White House, the government was releasing new data that highlighted the short-term problems they face as the American economy slows. The automakers are being forced to sell their vehicles to dealers for less and the dealers are not doing very well either.
The executives, Alan R. Mulally of Ford, Rick Wagoner of General Motors and Thomas W. LaSorda of Chrysler, complained that they suffered from rising health care costs. In the United States, such costs are largely paid by employers and are a big burden for the automakers, which provide insurance for retired as well as active workers. In other countries, the costs are usually paid by governments. Mr. Bush agreed that controlling health care inflation was important.
 They also complained that Japan was manipulating currency values to depress the value of the yen, thus making Japanese carmakers more competitive. But they said Mr. Bush was less sympathetic to that assertion.
 The meeting came shortly after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the producer price index for light trucks -- a group that includes minivans and sport utility vehicles -- fell sharply in October, and was down 12.4 percent from a year earlier. That is by far the largest such decline since the government began releasing the figures in 1964.
 That index can be volatile, as automakers offer and withdraw discounts to push slow-selling vehicles, so the chart here smoothes out short-term volatility by using annual changes in three-month moving averages of the index. By that measure, the index is down 8.3 percent from a year earlier.
 For passenger cars, the comparable figure was an annual decline of 4.1 percent. That was a bit smaller decline than the 4.3 percent registered a month earlier, but the September figure was the largest on record.
 For the automobile dealers, the newest data showed things are not quite as bad as they were. Sales in September, the latest month available, were higher than they had been a year earlier. But the total sales figure for the most recent 12 months was down 1.7 percent from the prior 12 months.
 Those figures are not adjusted for inflation, and include all business for new car dealers, which typically collect half their income from selling new vehicles, about a quarter from used vehicles and the rest from service and parts.
 For Detroit, eventual changes in health care policies could be important and so could currency changes. But in the immediate future, the big problems are a lack of buyers and an oversupply of vehicles that has held down the prices the carmakers can charge.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''U.S. Automakers Get Less for Cars . . .''Graph tracks annual change in producer price index for new cars from 1994 through October 2006.Chart: ''. . . and Much Less for Light Trucks . . .''Graph tracks annual change in producer price index for light trucks from 1994 through October 2006.Chart: ''. . . and Dealers' Sales Slump''Graph tracks annual change in 12-month total sales of new car dealers from 1994 through September 2006.Notes: Changes in producer price indexes are based on year-over-year change in three-month averages of indexes, to minimize short-term volatility. Sales of new car dealers are not adjusted for inflation and include all sales by such dealers, including new cars, used cars, parts and service. Light truck figures include trucks under 14,000 pounds, vans, minivans and sport utility vehicles.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics and Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRODUCER PRICES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); JAPANESE YEN (66%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN MULALLY (58%); RICK WAGONER (54%) George W (Pres) Bush; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



428 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: For Bush in Vietnam, Iraq Comparisons Are Hard to Avoid

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Saturday, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
President Bush, visiting a country that forced the United States into a humiliating withdrawal three decades ago, declared Friday that Vietnam's transition to a modern, growing economy gave him hope about what could be rebuilt from the ruins of Iraq. But he added that the lesson he drew from the bitter American experience here was that ''we'll succeed unless we quit.''
 After lunch here with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, Mr. Bush said, ''We tend to want there to be instant success in the world, and the task in Iraq is going to take a while.'' 
Carefully avoiding any direct mention of how the Vietnam War ended for the United States, Mr. Bush instead focused on the deepening -- if still wary -- economic and diplomatic ties between the two countries. 
 ''History has a long march to it,'' Mr. Bush said in response to a question about how he felt about arriving here, the second American president to visit since the war's end. ''Societies change and relationships can constantly be altered to the good.''
 During an early meeting on Saturday, President Bush was unable to get President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea to agree to intercept ships suspected of carrying supplies for North Korea's nuclear program. American officials have been trying to get South Korea to fully carry out United Nations sanctions imposed on North Korea after the North conducted a nuclear test in October.
 While Mr. Roh said he supported ''the principles'' of the intercept program, he continued to decline to take part in the voluntary program to stop ships suspected of carrying weapons. American officials who witnessed the session said that they believed that if hard intelligence emerged of a North Korean shipment, the South Koreans would be cooperative, but so far there has been no test of the South Koreans' willingness to toughen its sanctions. Mr. Roh's tenuous hold on Parliament has given him little room to join in tough sanctions, much less in active interception. 
 The tension between Mr. Bush and Mr. Roh has been palpable for more than a year, and the two men went out of their way Saturday to stick to broad generalities about the need to eliminate nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula, because both knew that any discussion of the specifics would reveal the large gap between the allies. 
 White House officials knew that Mr. Bush's arrival, for an economic summit meeting that is to start Saturday, would prompt all kinds of comparisons between Iraq and Vietnam, and Mr. Bush seemed determined not to get drawn into that discussion. Instead he talked about modern Vietnam as a place that is putting its economic future in order, an example of ''how people can reconcile and move beyond past differences.''
 Still, the day was filled with jarring imagery. When Mr. Bush spoke of driving by the lake where Senator John McCain's plane crashed nearly 40 years ago, he focused less on Mr. McCain's imprisonment than on the circumstances of his capture. 
 ''He was, literally, saved, in one way, by the people pulling him out,'' Mr. Bush said. He noted that the children of Vietnam's prime minister had been educated in the United States.
 But maintaining a positive tone required the president to say little, at least in public, about one-party Communist Party rule here or the treatment of dissidents. Nor did he try to argue that promoting economic ties with Vietnam would gradually loosen the party's grip. That was the argument that President Clinton made for engagement with China in the 1990s and with Vietnam when he visited six years ago. 
 But it was the Iraq comparisons that were the most difficult, because they required Mr. Bush to argue two seemingly contradictory threads: that Vietnam turned out well despite America's withdrawal, but that the situation in Iraq was so much more complicated that retreat was not an option.
 ''The Maliki government is going to make it unless the coalition leaves before they have a chance to make it,'' he said of Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. Turning to Mr. Howard, who sent Australian troops early into the Iraq conflict, he said, ''And that's why I assured the prime minister we'll get the job done.''
 In their first trip out of the country since Republicans lost the House and the Senate last week, Mr. Bush and his top aides have found themselves on the defensive, parrying questions about whether Mr. Bush is still in charge back home. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in an interview on CNBC in Hanoi on Friday, characterized the election results as ''not at all unusual.''
 ''I would hope that people would realize the United States of course is a great democracy and it goes through these changes in government actually fairly frequently,'' Ms. Rice said. ''Ronald Reagan lost the Senate in his sixth year. It's not at all unusual for presidents to lose seats in Congress in their sixth year. But they are then still president of the United States.''
 Administration officials searching for a bright light in American foreign policy were able to seize on two: the Senate's passage of a nuclear deal with India and a United Nations-brokered pact in which Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, agreed in principle to allow a joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force into the war-stricken Darfur region. 
 Mr. Bashir's earlier resistance vexed the Bush administration, which for months had been leaning on Sudanese officials to accept a United Nations force, but to no avail. It remains unclear what exactly changed his mind, and two major issues remain to be worked out: the number of troops and how the commander will be selected.
 Still, Ms. Rice said, ''I think it certainly is a real opportunity to resolve what is an extremely difficult problem and to get back on a road where innocent people can be protected and the Sudanese government has a chance to make right with the international system.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about President Bush's visit to Vietnam misstated the circumstances under which Senator John McCain's plane crashed there during the Vietnam War. He ejected after the plane was struck by a missile, and he parachuted into a lake. The plane did not crash into the lake.
An article on Saturday about President Bush's visit to Vietnam misstated the circumstances under which Senator John McCain's plane crashed there during the Vietnam War. He ejected after the plane was struck by a missile, and he parachuted into a lake. The plane did not crash into the lake.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Hanoi for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, President Bush and Prime Minister John Howard of Australia walked across an ornamental bridge on the grounds of a hotel after lunch yesterday. (Photo by Barbara Walton/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%); DISARMAMENT (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Vietnam War

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN HOWARD (70%) David E Sanger; Helene Cooper; George W (Pres) Bush; Roh Moo-Hyun (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); VIETNAM (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Iraq; Hanoi (Vietnam); South Korea; North Korea ; Iraq; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006



429 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: The Sprawling Life of a Lonely Financier 

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
''MELLON'' is a fascinating biography of Andrew Mellon, the banker, mogul and Treasury secretary who had the good luck to preside over the country's finances during the Roaring Twenties and the bad luck to remain in office when it all came tumbling down, during the Great Depression.
 It is also a compelling portrait of a dour and lonely financier who was wounded in love, disappointed in his children and, tragically, ill-rewarded by his government. 
The book (Knopf, $35) is a sprawling work for a sprawling life. As a private citizen, Mellon built one of the great fortunes of the Gilded Age. Inheriting a successful banking business from his father, he created the Mellon Bank. Then, all in his native Pittsburgh, he helped to start Alcoa and Gulf Oil, financed the magnate Henry Clay Frick and was a progenitor of Carnegie Mellon University. 
 As Treasury secretary from 1921 to 1932, he played a key role in restructuring the Allies' war debts (the chief preoccupation of international financiers in the '20s), spearheaded a tax cut and balanced the budget. He also amassed one of the great art collections of the age, which he selflessly donated to create the National Gallery of Art in Washington. (Mellon insisted that it not bear his name.) It was rightly said by a contemporary that Mellon was ''one of few cases where wealth is an accurate measure of ability.'' Would that such achievement had led to more contentment. David Cannadine, a British historian, begins with the saga of Mellon's forebears, ''Ulster Scots'' who left Scotland and settled in Ireland long enough to nurture a fierce sense of superiority and a dislike for the homegrown Irish. By the early 19th century, when the family relocated to Pennsylvania, it had the Protestant work ethic and all the snobbish disdain for the poorer classes and their boisterous ways upon which a great fortune might be built. All that was missing was money.
 This was promptly supplied by Mellon's father, known as ''the judge'' for his brief stint in the judiciary. A lawyer by trade, he had an eye for scooping up mortgage foreclosures and built the beginnings of a dynasty.
 But much more interesting than the father's business dealings, which Mr. Cannadine discusses at length, was his effect on Andrew's character.
 The judge took a dim view of frolic and fun. Born in 1855, Andrew was schooled at home; there was no poetry or fiction, though there was plenty of practical exposure to ledgers and real estate. Discipline and self-denial were the judge's watchwords; dinners were taken in silence. While his siblings cleared out, Andrew lived in this airless home until, in his 40s, he escaped into an ill-advised marriage. Small wonder that, upon entering the bank each morning, Andrew ''followed his father's habit of never speaking to the staff.'' 
 Parallel to the family history, Mr. Cannadine paints a vivid picture of 19th-century Pittsburgh as a crucible of the Industrial Revolution. Among Mellon's customers or business partners were a Who's Who of American tycoons: Frick, George Westinghouse, H. J. Heinz and Andrew Carnegie.
 Mr. Cannadine lingers on the various characters and subplots with exquisite (and, at times, excruciating) detail. Andrew does not take center stage until Page 90, and even when, in death, he leaves it, ''Mellon'' lumbers on, to door-stopping girth, for 42 pages more.
 Mr. Cannadine had no easy task in culling material from such diverse veins, and perhaps to guide us, he often telegraphs not just where his story is but where it is going. Thus, Mellon has no sooner taken a wife when the author cuts in: ''Eventually she would part amid high drama, bitter unhappiness, and deep recrimination all round.'' Much as these self-conscious touches are an intrusion, the author's grasp of his subject, and its sheer interest, keep pulling us back. 
 Three subplots stand above the rest. The first is Mellon's marriage to Nora, a young English country girl who was unfaithful, dishonest, self-pitying and scandal-mongering. What, in short, could be worse? Improbably, in divorce, Andrew and Nora found their better selves. His hurt led to a tenderness, hers to a generosity, absent in the marriage. Their comically modern squabbling over custody of their two children gave way, in time, to a sustained friendship that brought them achingly close to reconciliation. Mellon's letters to his ''Dear Norchen'' seem to belie Mr. Cannadine's assessment of his subject as ''a hollow man.''
 Alas, success as parents eluded them. Their son struggled to find his place in the world, and their daughter wrestled with persistent ailments; both seemed the worse for their inherited millions. 
 Second is the oft-debated question of whether Mellon, good classicist that he was, perhaps worsened the Depression by discouraging Herbert Hoover, the last of the three presidents he served, from doing more to rescue the economy. (Secretary Mellon was so laid back that his diary entry for Black Thursday merely observed: ''Stock market crash in New York. Dinner Belgium Embassy.'')
 The author acquits him of blame for the market crash, reasoning that the Treasury was a bit player compared with the Federal Reserve. And the subsequent failure of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal to cure the economy bears out Mellon's view that the economic cycle had to be left to run its course. Nonetheless, Mr. Cannadine argues, given the scale of human suffering during the Depression, ''something had to be done.'' 
 THE final drama concerns the politically inspired and baseless charge of tax fraud brought by the New Dealers, with Roosevelt's encouragement, against the retired secretary -- just as he was planning the magnificent gift of his art collection. This culminated in a mean-spirited trial in the spring of 1936, and in the saddest of finales, the 82-year-old Mellon died right before he was cleared. 
 How would Andrew Mellon align himself today? For sure, as a Republican. Mr. Cannadine notes the likeness to contemporary supply-siders, but one distinction bears note. Unlike the (ahem) recent tax-cutters, who nonchalantly spawned big deficits, Mellon was a real conservative. In his budget, and his life, firmness and balance were of the utmost.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PAINTING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HISTORY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (90%); ALCOA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (90%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

PERSON: Andrew (1855-1937) Mellon; Roger Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) SCOTLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



430 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: This Party May End Before It Starts

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE stock market has had a great run over the last few months, but as the holiday season begins, some analysts are worrying that the traditional year-end rally on Wall Street may have already come and nearly gone. 
 Mary Ann Bartels, technical research analyst at Merrill Lynch, wondered in a note to investors whether the tendency for stocks to climb in the last couple of months of the year had been rescheduled this year for September and October.
''We think yes,'' she wrote. She then acknowleged feeling torn between what her charts have told her and what the calendar and history have led her to expect.
 ''It is not our favored stance to be more toward the bear camp looking for a cyclical correction of 8 to 10 percent, but all of the market indicators suggest this is the more likely scenario over the coming weeks,'' Ms. Bartels said. ''What is surprising is that these readings are occurring at this time of year. Most years see a bullish year-end rally.''
 She highlighted several exceptions that prove the rule, including three years in the 1990s when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost at least 6 percent at some point during the last two months of the year. What signs suggest that 2006 will play out as those three years -- 1991, 1994 and 1996 -- did?
 Trading volume has shrunk, something that often precedes a price decline, she noted, and several sentiment indicators, including opinion surveys of investment advisers and measures of market volatility, show the sort of complacency that typically occurs near market tops.
 She also detected a ''barbell strategy'' among investors, favoring emerging markets on one end and defensive, high-quality American blue chips on the other while ignoring the moderately risky stuff in between. That is similar to the pattern last spring, just before the market took a tumble.
 These warning flags lead Ms. Bartels to forecast a decline in the S.& P. 500 to as low as 1,260 from its close on Friday of 1,401.20 ''All technical signs are pointing to the markets nearing a consolidation period and not a blowoff to the upside,'' she said. ''We cannot rule out further upside, but the risk/reward warrants a more defensive stance.''

DATA WATCH -- Few economic reports are on the business calendar, which is shortened this week by Thanksgiving on Thursday.
 One report that may attract interest on Monday is the index of leading economic indicators for October. A Bloomberg News poll of economists forecasts an increase of 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent climb for September.
 On Wednesday, the University of Michigan will issue its revised consumer sentiment report for November. The Bloomberg poll forecasts a reading of 93.1, up from the provisional reading of 92.3.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly change in Leading Indicators from 2005 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BONDS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (73%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (73%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (73%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (73%)

PERSON: Mary Ann Bartels; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



431 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: S.& P. Passes 1,400, and Oil Continues to Slide 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market surged again last week, pulling the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its first close above 1,400 in six years. 
 On Thursday, the Labor Department said consumer prices dropped sharply in October. The core Consumer Price Index showed inflation of 2.9 percent, annualized.
Oil prices fell more than 6 percent for the week, to $55.81 a barrel in the New York futures market, on expectations of weak demand. 
 On Friday, the Commerce Department said housing starts plummeted in October, raising questions about the underlying strength of the economy.
 The best weekly performance in the S.& P. 500-stock index came from Dillard's, the department-store chain based in Little Rock, Ark., with a gain of 19.3 percent for the week. After reporting an unexpected profit in the third quarter, Dillard's shares jumped 22 percent on Tuesday.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 234.13 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 12,342.56.
 The S.& P. 500 index gained 20.30 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 1,401.20. 
 The Nasdaq composite index climbed 56.14 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 2,445.86. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.US Airways GroupNYSE: LCCThe company made a surprise $8 billion offer for Delta Air Lines. The combined airline would be the largest in the world and could dominate travel on the East Coast of the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $59.45WEEK'S CHANGE: +20.59%EST. '06 P/E: 10.73Abercrombie & FitchNYSE: ANFShares of the clothing retailer declined after it reported that in the third quarter, sales at stores open at least a year rose 5 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 25 percent increase in the year-earlier period.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $71.09WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.42%EST. '06 P/E: 15.34Steak n ShakeNYSE: SNSThe operator of casual restaurants reported fourth-quarter earnings of $7.5 million, or 27 cents a share, on sales of $152 million. Wall Street had expected sales of $154.7 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.99WEEK'S CHANGE: Unch.EST. '06 P/E: 18.94Reader's Digest AssociationNYSE: RDAThe media company agreed to be bought by investors led by Ripplewood Holdings, a private equity firm, for $17 a share. The cash value of the deal is estimated to be about $1.6 billion.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.89WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.41%EST. '06 P/E: 19.19Williams-SonomaNYSE: WSMThe specialty housewares retailer said its quarterly net income plunged more than 21 percent, to $29.1 million, or 25 cents a share, from $37.1 million, or 31 cents a share, a year earlier. The company also cut its 2006 sales target.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.90WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.39%EST. '06 P/E: 16.64Golf GalaxyNNM: GGXYShares of the golf retailer surged after it agreed to be acquired by Dick's Sporting Goods for $225 million. Dick's expects the acquisition to add to its results in fiscal 2007.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.45WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.62%EST. '06 P/E: 30.05Wal-Mart StoresNYSE: WMTThe world's largest retailer said its quarterly profit rose 12 percent despite weak sales growth in the United States. The company's chief executive said it would aggressively cut prices to spur holiday sales.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.22%EST. '06 P/E: 16.55Barnes & NobleNYSE: BKSShares of the nation's largest bookseller tumbled after the company reported a third-quarter loss, mostly because of expenses related to stock options. It was the company's first quarterly loss since 2003.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.14WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.40%EST. '06 P/E: 17.37(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FUTURES (73%); RETAILERS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



432 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; COMINGS & GOINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 281 words

BYLINE: By HILARY HOWARD

 BODY:
Here's an apres-ski experience for the whole family: a visit to a Vermont sugarhouse, where maple syrup is collected and made. Although trees aren't tapped until late February or early March, many sugarhouses remain open all year long (www.vermontmaple.org), playing host to activities like candy making. To request a free copy of the 2007 Ski and Maple Map and Guide, call (800) 837-6668. Throughout January, the Balsams Grand Resort Hotel in Dixville Notch, N.H., is offering a Ski Free package, good Sunday through Thursday nights, except for Jan. 
14 and 15. The $79-a-night fee covers lift tickets to an Alpine ski area, access to about 60 miles of cross-country trails, lodging and breakfast (www.thebalsams.com/skifree.aspx). The Destination Hotels and Resorts Mountain Collection has teamed with One Coat, a nonprofit organization, to coordinate a winter coat drive. Hotel guests who donate a new or a little-used coat will receive a 5 percent credit per coat toward the cost of their stay (www.mountaindestination.com). Valdez Heli-Camps in Alaska (www.valdezhelicamps.com) is offering a new, more economical way to take part in the very expensive and extreme sport of helicopter skiing. The Vertical Feet Punch Card is for skiers who have ''more time than money,'' as set out by Matt White, the owner and founder of the company. He was referring to aspiring athletes for whom the experience -- usually in the form of a pricey all-inclusive package -- is usually too expensive. The card, which costs $549 (for 12,500 feet) to $3,299 (for 100,000 feet), buys just helicopter space, which can't be reserved; cardholders show up and board when space is available. HILARY HOWARD

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Wes Wylie/Valdez Heli-Camps)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HELICOPTERS (71%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DESTINATION HOTELS & RESORTS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



433 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Sabbatical. Work. Repeat.

BYLINE: By PHILIP KENT; As told to Caroline Wilbert.

 BODY:
I DON'T know exactly where I came up with this career decision mantra, but I often like to challenge myself: ''God hates a coward.'' That's enabled me to take chances professionally and to take two sabbaticals to travel around the world. I never worried I wouldn't find another job.
 I do think my upbringing helped, in that my parents were neither overprotective nor underprotective. I grew up in a middle-class home in White Plains and went to public school. I had friends who lived in big homes and friends who lived in housing projects. I never saw a big difference in terms of how happy they were. 
I went to Lehigh University to major in engineering. I failed freshman calculus and quickly changed my academic ambitions. I majored in economics. My senior year, I did a couple of independent studies about television and got interested in the industry. 
 I spent the summer after graduation hanging around New York, enjoying all the parties for the bicentennial and arguing with my father about when I was going to get a job.
 I almost took a job selling mutual funds. Instead, I wrote about a dozen very aggressive letters to the heads of media companies. I told them I didn't want my letter to end up in some human resources file. One letter eventually led to my first job, as a sales assistant at Blair Television, which sold advertising for local stations.
 I think I was one of the first male sales assistants in New York in the television business. I got the job because my mother made me take touch-typing in summer school and I could type 100 words a minute. I answered phones, sent telexes and got coffee.
 I was promoted but eventually got bored. I quit to start a venture with a retired astronaut and a weatherman, producing and selling news inserts to local stations to use on their newscasts. This was when there were long lines for gasoline, so every vignette was about conserving energy. It was a total disaster, but I learned a lot. When it was over, I went back to Blair, this time with a higher salary.
 My next change was to become a Hollywood agent. This was a whole new world for me. I thought agents were guys who screamed into phones all day and wore gold chains. But Creative Artists Agency was professional and ''suit and tie,'' and it turned out to be a great job. I worked with people who went on to have major jobs in the entertainment industry. I eventually burned out. Being an agent is stressful because you have to constantly be available.
 I spent a year traveling all over the world: Latin America, Europe, Australia, everywhere. It gave me a mental rest and also some perspective.
 When I came back, I was offered a job at Turner Broadcasting, running a division that included book publishing, home videos and foreign theatrical releases. I didn't know anything about these businesses. But I remembered, God hates a coward, so I took the job. It led to another job, this one in London, running Turner's international networks.
 It was a few years later that I received the most surprising job offer of all. My bosses at Turner asked me to come back to Atlanta and be president of CNN. I had no journalism experience, but they said they needed a business guy. It turned out to be the hardest job I've ever had. CNN was in a challenging period. Ad revenue was declining. Fox News was starting to have an impact. Time Warner (Turner's parent) merged with AOL. I was trying to fix the business and keep morale up. 
 Once we began to make progress on the business side, our parent company did a ''180'' and brought in a journalist as chief executive above me. Only one person can head a news organization, so I left.
 I took another sabbatical to travel. This one was different in that I stayed in Four Seasons hotels instead of hostels. I was days away from taking a job in Los Angeles when I got a call from Jeff Bewkes, president and chief operating officer of Time Warner. I met with him in New York. Within a few days, I was the chief executive of Turner Broadcasting. It had to be one of the few upwardly mobile sabbaticals in corporate America.

PHILIP KENT
Chairman and chief executive, Turner Broadcasting

BIRTH DATE
Oct. 20, 1954

HOMES
Atlanta and New York

FAVORITE NON-TURNER TELEVISION SHOWS
''Sunday Morning'' on CBS and ''Frontline'' on PBS


GRAPHIC: Photo: PHILIP KENT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (88%); SALES FORCE (87%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); TALENT AGENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (51%) Television; Biographical Information

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (56%) Turner Broadcasting Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (52%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Philip Kent; Caroline Wilbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (76%); LATIN AMERICA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



434 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-19-06: IDEA LAB; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: The Real Marriage Penalty

BYLINE: By Annie Murphy Paul. 
Annie Murphy Paul is the author of ' 'The Cult of Personality: How Personality Tests Are Leading Us to Miseducate Our Children, Mismanage Our Companies and Misunderstand Ourselves.'

 BODY:
''Some of usare becoming the men we wanted to marry,'' Gloria Steinem proclaimed 25 years ago. She meant, of course, that women in large numbers were seizing the places in higher education and the professions that had formerly been closed to them, becoming the doctors, lawyers and executives that they once hoped only to wed. Over the past generation, the liberal notion of egalitarian marriage -- in which wives are in every sense their husbands' peers -- has gone from pie-in-the-sky ideal to unremarkable reality. But this apparently progressive shift has been shadowed by another development: America's growing gap between rich and poor. Even as husbands and wives have moved closer together on measures of education and income, the divide between well-educated, well-paid couples and their less-privileged counterparts has widened, raising an awkward possibility: are we achieving more egalitarian marriages at the cost of a more egalitarian society? 
Once, it was commonplace for doctors to marry nurses and executives to marry secretaries. Now the wedding pages are stocked with matched sets, men and women who share a tax bracket and even an alma mater. People, like other members of the animal kingdom, have always been prone to ''assortative mating,'' or choosing to have babies with a reassuringly similar partner. But observers like Geoffrey Miller, an evolutionary psychologist at the University of New Mexico and author of ''The Mating Mind,'' suggest that the innovations of modern society -- from greater geographic mobility to specialized work environments to Internet dating -- have made this matching process much more efficient. ''Assortative mating is driven by our personal preferences, but also by whom we meet, and these days we have many more opportunities to meet others like ourselves,'' he says. (As with most contemporary sociological phenomena, ''Seinfeld'' was there first: a 1996 episode featured the comedian finding ''the female Jerry.'')
 In particular, Americans are increasingly pairing off by education level, according to the sociologists Christine Schwartz and Robert Mare. In an article published last year in the journal Demography, they reported that the odds of a high-school graduate marrying someone with a college degree declined by 43 percent between 1940 and the late 1970s. In our current decade, the researchers wrote, the percentage of couples who are ''educationally homogamous'' -- that is, share the same level of schooling -- reached its highest point in 40 years. Assortative mating by income also seems to be on the rise. In a 2004 study of couples wed in the 1970s through the early 1990s, the researchers Megan Sweeney and Maria Cancian found an increasingly strong association between women's wages before marriage and the occupational status and future earnings prospects of the men they married.
 Why is this happening? For one thing, more couples are meeting in college and other educational settings, where prospective mates come prescreened by admissions committees as discerning as any yenta. Husbands and wives who begin their relationships during their school years are more likely to have comparable education (and, presumably, income) levels. Secondly, men and women have become more alike in what they want from a marriage partner. This convergence is both cultural -- co-ed gyms and bars have replaced single-sex sewing circles and Elks clubs -- and economic. Just as women have long sought to marry a good breadwinner, men, too, now find earning potential sexy. ''There are fewer Cinderella marriages these days,'' says Stephanie Coontz, author of ''Marriage, a History.'' ''Men are less interested in rescuing a woman from poverty. They want to find someone who will pull her weight.'' For this reason, the ''marriage penalty'' once paid by highly educated women has all but disappeared: among women born after 1960, a college graduate is more likely to marry than her less-educated counterpart. And finally, there's what Schwartz calls the growing ''social and economic distance'' between the well educated and the less so, a gulf even ardent romantics may find difficult to bridge.
 This last theory holds that disparities in wealth influence whom we marry, but there's reason to think that our mating patterns could be producing economic inequality as well as reflecting it. A model constructed by the economists Raquel Fernandez and Richard Rogerson, published in 2001 in The Quarterly Journal of Economics, led them to conclude that ''increased marital sorting'' -- high earners marrying high earners and low earners marrying low earners -- ''will significantly increase income inequality.'' A 2003 analysis by Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution, found that a rising correlation of husband-and-wife earnings accounted for 13 percent of the considerable growth in economic inequality between 1979 and 1996.
 Burtless himself does not think that assortative mating is necessarily becoming more prevalent. In fact, he says he believes that ''the tendency of like to marry like has remained roughly unchanged over time. What have changed are the labor-market opportunities and behavior of women.'' In this conception, men have always married women of their own social class, but such stratification was obscured by the fact that the female halves of these couples often did not work or pursue advanced degrees. Now that women who are in a position to do so are attending college and graduate school and joining the professions, the economic consequences of Americans' assortative mating habits are becoming clearer.
 If assortative mating does contribute to our growing gap between rich and poor, does that matter? Few people would question any individual's romantic preferences. And yet as the current clash over gay marriage demonstrates, private choices about whom we marry -- or don't marry, or can't marry -- can have loud public reverberations. Not long ago, the marriages of whites and blacks, and the lifting of laws that once prohibited such unions, revealed a nation beginning to open its mind on matters of race; likewise, rates of marriage across lines of education and income provide an index of social mobility. If there are fewer such marriages, then there are ''fewer sources of intimate ties'' between groups, Schwartz says, making marriage one more brick in the wall that separates America's haves and have-nots.
 Of course, men and women don't choose each other on the basis of education and income alone. Putting love aside, as men's and women's roles continue to shift, other standards for selecting a partner may come to the fore. Indeed, the sociologist Julie Press recently offered what she called ''a gynocentric theory of assortative mating,'' moving the focus from what men now desire in a marriage partner to the evolving preferences of women. What would-be wives may be seeking now, she proposed in The Journal of Marriage and Family, is ''cute butts and housework'' -- that is, a man with an appealing physique and a willingness to wash dishes. Could this be a feminist slogan for our time?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Kira Pollack)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (71%); WRITERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Marriages; United States Economy; Income; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (54%)

PERSON: Annie Murphy Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



435 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Climate Change

 BODY:
In finding a correlation between the price of rye and property crime in the 1800s, current economists are rediscovering relationships well known at the time (Freakonomics, Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt, Nov. 5). In his book, ''Laboring Classes and Dangerous Classes,'' a social history of Paris in the same epoch, Louis Chevalier noted that ''the price of bread was of utmost importance; its curve followed the curve of all ills that Paris was heir to,'' and the Paris prefect of police wrote in 1827 that ''it is imperative that the price of bread does not go higher than 3 sous to the pound.'' Of course, he did this analysis without the benefit of a single regression equation.

Michael D. Maltz 
 Department of Sociology
 Ohio State University
 Columbus, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); PROPERTY CRIMES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HISTORY (55%) Global Warming; Weather

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: michael d maltz; Stephen J Dubner; Steven D (Prof) Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (67%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



436 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP NISEKO, JAPAN; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2102 words

HEADLINE: Downhill Skiing in the Land of the Rising Sun 

BYLINE: By BEN BRAZIL

 BODY:
JAPAN is a country with extensive mountain ranges, literally hundreds of ski resorts and plentiful snow, yet a language barrier and the country's distance from Western markets have long prevented it from becoming a major international ski destination. 
 That's starting to change, especially at a resort called Niseko. Situated on Hokkaido, the northernmost of Japan's main islands, Niseko has become wildly popular among Australians, who are attracted by the chance to ski world-class snow without suffering the jet lag they associate with North American and European resorts.
Australian-run tour operators based in Niseko have also played a major role in Niseko's boom, and visitors will find that the language barrier has been greatly diminished, as many Japanese-run businesses have begun to cater to English-speaking tourists. The changes explain why Niseko's real estate market is booming -- and why the resort's buzz is now reaching Europe and North America. 
 Language aside, Niseko's selling point is snow. Especially from mid-December through February, the resort gets socked with winter storms that blow off Siberia and bury the mountain in some of the lightest, driest powder on the planet. The town of Kutchan, the seat of local government, records an average of nearly 500 inches a year. On-mountain averages are harder to come by, but local ski businesses say that Niseko frequently gets more than 600 inches a year. Vail in Colorado, by comparison, averages 348. 
 If you're after bluebird skies, in other words, the Niseko winter is not for you. 
 The atmosphere can be surreal. Snow accumulates in the crooks of Niseko's trees, forming huge, white pillows that give the mountain a Dr. Seuss-style air of unreality. Mount Yotei, a 6,227-foot volcanic cone that resembles Mount Fuji, dominates the view to the east -- at least when snowstorms don't blot it out.
 On the slopes, Niseko has decent on-piste offerings. But experiencing the best of this mountain means ducking into the trees -- mainly well-spaced silver birches on inclines that are exhilarating yet not too scary for skilled intermediates. Many visitors, in fact, have a hard time skiing anywhere else. 
 ''Any time I'm on the groomed runs, it's just to get back to the lift,'' said Chieh (Cheech) Chen, an Australian snowboarder in his 20s who spent nearly three months in Niseko last season. 
 Niseko also owes its reputation among serious skiers and snowboarders like Mr. Chen to its out-of-bounds policy, which is liberal by Japanese standards. Except for a few areas, visitors can go outside ski area boundaries at their own risk; the resorts do not patrol, groom or avalanche bomb outside their borders, and injured skiers are charged for rescue operations. 
 For those with the ability and desire to run the risks, the policy vastly increases Niseko's size, putting in play the treeless powder runs off 4,293-foot Annupuri peak and several square miles of surrounding bowls, gullies and backcountry trees. 
 Of course, hitting many of these areas means walking back to the lift, as well as risking avalanches and falls into unmarked holes in the snow pack. Still, last March, long lines of skiers and snowboarders traversed out of bounds. Many were with friends, though it's safest to get a guide. 
 That's what a 20-something Japanese snowboarder named Tetsuo Ono did, following a guide past the out-of-bounds rope and into calf-deep powder hidden in a grove of silver birches. By all appearances, it had been a great run. But back on the lift, Mr. Ono complained that the snow wasn't great.
 What would a good day be? He grinned and pointed to his waist. 
 WHEN most people visit Niseko, they come to a conglomeration of three separate ski areas -- Grand Hirafu, Higashiyama and Annupuri -- which offer a common lift pass and connect near the top of the 4,293-foot mountain they share. A few smaller resorts also operate in the Niseko area but do not connect with their bigger neighbors or participate in their shared lift ticket. 
 Taken as a whole, the three bigger areas are each of respectable size, but not huge by North American standards. With a 3,084-foot vertical drop, the terrain is perfect for advanced intermediates, but experts won't find it terrifically steep. Of course, Niseko isn't the only skiing option in Japan, either. Andrew Lea, editor of the Japanese snow-sports Web site SnowJapan.com, estimated the total at 500 to 600 areas, many very small. That's more than the United States, which has 478 ski areas, according to the National Ski Areas Association. 
 Most of Japan's biggest and best-known resorts sit on Hokkaido, the north island, or on the northern half of Honshu, Japan's main island. Hokkaido currently has most of the buzz, but the 1998 Winter Olympics took place at several well-regarded resorts in Nagano prefecture, on Honshu. Some of the Honshu areas, like the mammoth, multi-resort Hakuba area, are also starting to attract international attention, Mr. Lea said. 
 Despite this infrastructure, the Japanese ski industry has never recovered from the collapse of the ''ski boom'' of the 1980s, when skiing became trendy, slopes stayed packed and resort investment soared. 
 Since then, Japan's economy has stagnated and youth tastes have shifted toward other entertainments, like video games and the Internet, said Mr. Lea and others. As the ski fad ended, the number of domestic skiers plummeted. 
 Niseko, however, has become a striking anomaly: a skiing boomtown where the growth is driven mostly by foreigners.
 The number of non-Japanese visitors to the resort has increased more than elevenfold since 2000, judging by figures from the municipality of Kutchan, the district where most foreign visitors stay. And of the 9,563 foreigners who visited last season, 80 percent came from Australia. 
 The sheer numbers of Australians in Niseko's streets, bars and restaurants surprised even visitors from Down Under.
 ''We knew they were coming,'' said one visitor, Ruth Eskin of Sydney, ''but we didn't expect to see them absolutely everywhere.'' 
 Australian developers and investors have also driven up once-depressed land values in Hirafu village, the cozy town at the base of the Hirafu ski area. Last year, assessed values in the village climbed more than 30 percent -- the fastest rate in Japan, according to government figures. Actual selling prices have risen even faster -- recently around 50 to 100 percent a year, according to several local realtors and developers. Luxury condos are also multiplying, supplementing the area's cozy B&B-style accommodations and the somewhat dated hotels at the mountain's base. And an Australian-run company has bought a portion of the Grand Hirafu area called Hanazono, and announced plans to spend more than $600 million to develop an 8,000-bed, four-season resort village at its base. Everywhere in Niseko, developers talk confidently about becoming the next Telluride, Aspen or Val d'Isere, France. 
 But while many Japanese residents are thrilled that their town is thriving again, Niseko's growth is not without controversy. Young, hard-partying Australian visitors have developed a reputation for drunken rowdiness, and some local property owners dislike real estate speculation or complain they are being left out of the boom. Some Australian business owners and many tourists also voiced another fear -- that the new boom is robbing Niseko of its quiet charm and Japanese character. Nick Blake, of Melbourne, first snowboarded Niseko in 2003, when the Australian presence was less obvious. Not anymore.
 ''It's like leaving Australia and coming to Australia,'' he said. ''It's lost a little bit of its uniqueness, Iguess.'' 
 DESPITE the worrying, Niseko can still be charming -- a small, once-sleepy resort not quite accustomed to the spotlight. In addition to its slopeside hotels, Hirafu village has two main streets, a few lodges and some bed-and-breakfast-style pensions. The restaurants tend to be intimate, and the best book up days in advance during the high season. There's sushi, naturally, but also izakayas (a sort of Japanese tapas bar), bakeries, pizzerias and even a restaurant housed in a Mongolian-style tent. 
 As to shopping, the high fashion outlets and luxe home decor shops that populate American resort towns are, for the most part, absent. The same goes for the neon overload associated with Tokyo. Niseko is a slower, simpler place; the nearest A.T.M. that accepts international cards is a 15-minute bus ride away, and credit cards are still not universally accepted.
 Still, Niseko has plenty to do off the slopes. Hot springs, or onsen, are among the best things about many Japanese resorts, and each has its own personality. At the rustic Yukoro onsen, for example, Japanese and Australian visitors sipped beers while leaning against pleasantly rough rocks near a snowbank.
 For those who can pull themselves out of the water, large swaths of the slopes are also lighted until 9 p.m. One night last March, shadowy whirlwinds tore across the upper mountain as eerie yellow lights illuminated the slopes' twisted, leafless trees. The effect was like skiing through a Tim Burton movie. 
 Then there are the bars. Japan is not known for its apres-ski tradition, but Niseko has become an exception to the rule, with bars that tend to be small, cozy and quirky. There's one made of two tractor-trailers, one with an old Coke vending machine door for an entrance and -- at least last season -- one sculptured of ice.
 In short, the off-slope diversions are there, and multiplying. Still, most visitors focus on something simpler: snow.
 ''I've been to Canada, I've been to Europe, I've been to America,'' said Ms. Eskin, the visitor from Sydney, ''and this is the best powder snow I've ever skied.''

A JAPANESE DESTINATION GOES INTERNATIONAL

GETTING THERE
 It's best to fly to Sapporo, then take a bus to Niseko. Round-trip coach fares on airlines like Delta and United from New York to Sapporo generally begin at $1,100 to $1,250 in ski season. From New Chitose Airport in Sapporo, bus lines serving Niseko include Chuo Bus and Donan Bus. Both charge 2,300 yen ($19.85 at 116 yen to $1) one-way or 3,850 yen round trip. 

WHERE TO STAY
 Hirafu village, at the base of Grand Hirafu, is the liveliest place to stay. Western-style luxury condos are shooting up, but otherwise don't expect five stars here -- it's mainly dated hotels and cozy bed-and-breakfast-style lodges and ''pensions.'' The latter especially may have shared bathrooms. All prices assume a one-week stay for two during the high season from mid-December through February, but not in holiday weeks. 
 New condos may be booked through Hokkaido Tracks (81-136-233-503, www.hokkaidotracks.com), beginning at 26,200 yen a night for two-person studios . The Niseko Alpen Hotel (81-136-22-1105, www.grand-hirafu.jp/en/hotels/alpen) has a nice onsen (hot springs), sauna and karaoke room; 27,300 yen a night. The B&B-style Grand Papa (81-136-23-2244, www.niseko-grandpapa.com) is friendly, cozy and looks like a European chalet; doubles for 15,000 yen.
 For cheap, backpacker-style lodging, Shizenkan Lodge and Backpacker (81-136-234-351, www.niseko-backpacker.com) has dorm bunks for 3,200 yen (without breakfast), as well as nicer options. Most accommodations also offer lift ticket packages.
 Most foreign visitors book ski and lodging packages through Australian-run operators like Ski Japan (www.skijapan.com), Niseko Powder Connection (www.niseko-hirafu.com) and Deep Powder Tours (www.deeppowdertours.com).

EATING AND DRINKING
 Reserve restaurant tables several days ahead during high season. A-Bu-Cha (81-136-22-5620) is a bakery by day and an izakaya (sort of a Japanese tapas bar) by night, when dishes range from 380-yen fried soy sprouts to 4,300-yen hot pots for four. Gentem Cafe (www.gentem.co.jp, 81-136-23-3154), serves a variety of Asian food in a Mongolian yurt; 3,000 to 4,000 yen, without drinks.

ON THE SLOPES
 An All Mountain Pass is good for Annupuri, Higashiyama and Grand Hirafu. During ''regular season'' (Dec. 16 to March 11) a one-day ticket costs 5,200 yen and is good from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Tickets good for eight hours cost 4,800 yen. The individual resorts also sell cheaper tickets good only within their own boundaries. The Niseko Adventure Center (www.nac-web.com/e--index.htm) and Niseko Outdoor Adventure Sports Club, www.noasc.com have guided, off-piste and backcountry tours.
 For more information, try SnowJapan (www.snowjapan.com) and the Japan National Tourist Organization (www.japantravelinfo.com). BEN BRAZIL


GRAPHIC: Photos: Night skiing at the Niseko resort, above, on Hokkaido in northern Japan
so many tourists visit there from Australia that some local businesses have signs in English. (Photographs by Charles Pertwee for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 Skiing students in Niseko, on the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido, where storms from Siberia drop huge amounts of snow. (Photo by Charles Pertwee for The New York Times)(pg. 13)Map of Japan highlighting Niseko, mountains, and the surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); RESORTS (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); AVALANCHES (78%); WEATHER (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); TOUR OPERATORS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); SPORTS INJURIES (60%) Skiing; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Ben Brazil

GEOGRAPHIC: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Hokkaido (Japan); Japan; niseko (japan)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



437 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Karen Sussman, Michael Horgan

 BODY:
Karen Wendy Sussman was married yesterday evening to Michael David Horgan at the Palms Hotel in Miami Beach. Jeffrey J. Conway, a friend of theirs, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated. 
 The bride, 33, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a marketing consultant in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania with a bachelor's degree in regional studies and another in economics and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.
She is a daughter of Marjorie and Jonathan Sussman of North Miami Beach. Her father is the associate director of research programs at the engineering and computing college of Florida International University in Miami. Her mother is a professor of English at Miami Dade College. 
 The bridegroom, 34, is a managing director at G. L. Ohrstrom & Company, an investment firm in New York. He graduated summa cum laude from the State University at Buffalo and received an M.B.A. from M.I.T. 
 He is a son of Jane and Samuel Horgan. His father is a partner in Tatum in Atlanta, a temporaries agency for executives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



438 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: The New New Math: Back to Basics

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''As Math Scores Lag, a New Push for the Basics'' (front page, Nov. 14):
 As a high school teacher of many years and a mother, I, too, am greatly concerned with curriculum revision that tends toward the dogmatic acceptance of one educational model over other models.
 As most teachers know, there is not one path to mastery. What works well in one arena does not necessarily translate to another arena. Children who memorize multiplication tables have an easier time on standardized tests and in life than those who only know how to creatively group together dried kidney beans to figure out the process and answer. 
 Realistically, both models have a place in the classroom. But ultimately, at the end of the day, the person needs to know the answer.
 Perhaps the problem lies with the commercialization of educational models and the proliferation of high-priced consultants. When incomes are determined by reinvention, then reinvention reigns over best practices. The question should not be what are the most interesting or creative models but what are the most effective strategies for teaching a particular subject.

Elizabeth Napp
Mount Kisco, N.Y., Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 As a middle school tutor, I'm always amazed at the pride many schools feel because their middle school curriculum includes topics in pre-algebra/algebra. This sounds like good news until it becomes clear that it's not pre-algebra that students find problematic: it's basic arithmetic.
 Enabling students to have rote facts at their fingertips endows them with great self-confidence and permits them to take risks with subsequent higher-thinking math skills. This self-confidence eliminates that ''fear'' of math that prevails in our culture.
 When I was an elementary school student in the 1950s, what was drilled daily in the classroom was reinforced nightly with numerous homework problems. 
 This is a technique that not only allows students to master the math basics, it also instills a sense of self-esteem gained through accuracy, precision and academic discipline.

E. S. Goldberg
Miami, Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 I was an educator in New York City for 31 years, and in my educational lifetime as dean of a Manhattan high school, a teacher in several junior and senior high schools and in summer and afternoon school tutorial programs, and a night adult-school teacher, I was involved in many new teaching programs. 
 Education is not an activity to promote politically correct reforms. Education is a process by which students are taught fundamentals in a structured environment with the least amount of distractions and political or doctorate-minded invasions.
 The outrageous proposals to substitute the basics will always be with us, and the smart thing to do is not to waste the good taxpayer's patience or money.

John A. Manicone
Port St. Lucie, Fla., Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Isn't there a very simple and obvious answer here? If the kids in Japan, Taiwan and elsewhere do so much better in math than our kids do, why not just use their textbooks and curriculum rather than reinvent the wheel?
 Certainly, this would be a faster and more economical approach to this problem than reinventing curriculum and textbooks yet again.

Diana d'Ambra
Maplewood, N.J., Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 No pun intended, the common denominator in predicting either the success or failure of any math curriculum -- and I have been involved in a countless number of them during the past 45 years as a math educator -- is the balance in it between theory and rote learning.
 It didn't harm me any to wait till I learned college-level and in some instances postgraduate-level mathematics to learn of the theoretical underpinnings of some algorithms. Frankly, frequently a greater level of mathematical maturity is needed to fully understand and appreciate such.
 And let's not forget the need for teachers who understand the nature of mathematics!

Milton L. Meller
Brooklyn, Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Thank you for publishing your article on the country's lagging math scores.
 I wrote a letter to the superintendent of my suburban Seattle school district when I was a junior in high school being poorly prepared for the SAT. I pointed out precisely the same problems with ''reform math'' that your article outlined.
 I am now a sophomore in college and still paying the price for the poorly developed methods of ''Integrated Mathematics.'' You can be sure I will be forwarding a copy of this article to the superintendent, as well as updating her on my progress in remedial algebra. I'll get the basics this time around; unfortunately, my parents are now paying $40,000 for them. 

Alison Bailey
Portland, Ore., Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Raising the bar won't help, unless the children are developmentally ready for the concepts being taught.
 As a fifth-grade teacher in California, I am forced to teach concepts that I learned in junior high school (prime factorization, plane geometry, integers), in addition to some concepts I learned in high school, like the volume of a pyramid or copying a triangle with a compass. If that weren't bad enough, I find that I spend much time trying to bring them up to snuff on doing all basic operations in decimals and fractions.
 All of this would be great to use as enrichment, since the upper fourth of the class usually grasps the material. However, the rest of the class truly struggles. I would advise against using California's math standards, unless they are thoughtfully pruned.

Carol Tensen
Burbank, Calif., Nov. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 One reads every day that American students are lagging in mathematics and sciences. Has anyone paid any attention to their English lately? We're a country where the majority of people speak only one language, and that one they speak badly. Arts? Literature? History? Government? American students are lagging, period!

Mary C. Stephenson
Austin, Tex., Nov. 15, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Carson Ellis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); HOMEWORK (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); CHILDREN (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); BEST PRACTICES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Mathematics; States (US) ; Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Teachers and School Employees

PERSON: Elizabeth Napp; E S Goldberg; John A Manicone; Diana D'Ambra; Milton L Meller; Alison Bailey; Carol Tensen; Mary C Stephenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



439 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: UNBUILDING -- ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: All Fall Down

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
The ravaged neighborhoods of New Orleans make a grim backdrop for imagining the future of American cities. But despite its criminally slow pace, the rebuilding of this city is emerging as one of the most aggressive works of social engineering in America since the postwar boom of the 1950s. And architecture and urban planning have become critical tools in shaping that new order.
 Nowhere is this more apparent than in the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development's plan to demolish four of the city's biggest low-income housing developments at a time when the city still cannot shelter the majority of its residents. The plan, which is being challenged in federal court by local housing advocates, would replace more than 5,000 units of public housing with a range of privately owned mixed-income developments.
Billed as a strategy for relieving the entrenched poverty of the city's urban slums, it is based on familiar arguments about the alienating effects of large-scale postwar inner-city housing. 
 But this argument seems strangely disingenuous in New Orleans. Built at the height of the New Deal, the city's public housing projects have little in common with the dehumanizing superblocks and grim plazas that have long been an emblem of urban poverty. Modestly scaled, they include some of the best public housing built in the United States. 
 So it's not surprising that many of its residents suspect a sinister agenda is at work here. Locked out of the planning process, they fear the planned demolitions are part of a broad effort to prevent displaced poor people from returning to New Orleans.
 This demolition strategy is not new. It is part of a long-standing campaign to dismantle the nation's public housing system that began in the 1970s. That campaign was based on the valid belief that the concentration of the poor into segregated ghettos condemned them to a permanent cycle of poverty, crime and drugs. Specifically, it was directed at the large-scale postwar housing developments that became a fixture of American cities in the 1960s -- anonymous blocks of concrete housing, like Chicago's recently partially demolished Cabrini-Green, whose deadening uniformity seemed to strip the poor of their identity, reducing them to repetitive numbers in a vast bureaucratic machine.
 The last few decades have witnessed the emergence of a new model for public housing: mixed-income developments whose designs are largely based on New Urbanist town-planning principles. Nostalgic visions of Middle America, they are marked by narrow pedestrian streets and quaint two-story houses with pitched roofs and covered porches. For HUD, they have become the default mode for rebuilding in New Orleans. 
 But if the sight of workers dynamiting an abandoned housing complex was a cause for celebration in Chicago's North Side, the notion is stupefying in New Orleans, whose public housing embodies many of those same New Urbanist ideals: pedestrian friendly environments whose pitched roofs, shallow porches and wrought iron rails have as much to do with 19th-century historical precedents as with late Modernism. 
 More specifically, they were inspired by local developments such as the 1850s Pontalba Apartments and late-19th ''Garden City'' proposals, whose winding tree-lined streets and open green spaces were seen as an antidote to the filth and congestion of the industrial city.
 The low red-brick housing blocks of the Lafitte Avenue project, in the historically black neighborhood of Treme, for example, are scaled to fit within the surrounding neighborhood of Creole cottages and shotgun houses. To lessen the sense of isolation, the architects extended the surrounding street grid through the site with a mix of roadways and pedestrian paths. As you move deeper into the complex, the buildings frame a series of communal courtyards sheltered by the canopies of enormous oak trees. Nature, here, was intended to foster spiritual as well as physical well being.
 That care was reflected in the quality of construction as well. Solidly built, the buildings' detailed brickwork, tile roofs and wrought-iron balustrades represent a level of craft more likely found on an Ivy League campus than in a contemporary public housing complex. 
 They would be almost impossible to reproduce in the kind of bottom-line developments that have become the norm.
 In truth, the collapse of New Orleans' public housing system had less to do with bad design than with cynical government policies, which were rooted in the city's divisive racial politics. Up through the 1950s, residents of Lafitte were supported by a network of social services, from nursery schools financed by the Works Progress Administration to onsite medical care, adult education programs, Boy Scout groups and gardening clubs.
 But as the middle class fled to the suburbs in the 1960s, these services were gradually stripped away, transforming entire areas of the inner city into ghettos for the black underclass.
 By 2002, conditions had worsened to the point that the city of New Orleans agreed to turn control of its public housing over to HUD. Today, the richly landscaped gardens are gone. Many of the lawns have been paved over and replaced by basketball courts. Huge garbage bins, some with fading paintings of balloons, are scattered across decaying lots. Towering floodlights illuminate forbidding concrete pathways. 
 That neglect has now touched bottom in post-Katrina New Orleans. Most of the city's public housing was boarded up a few months after the storm -- long before most residents were able to claim their possessions or clean out their refrigerators. Many are now rat-infested. And while HUD has promised that anyone who comes back will be provided housing in the same neighborhood, those residents that have managed to return have had little voice about what their housing will be. (By comparison, the city has set up numerous town meetings to help homeowners decide how to rebuild their neighborhoods.) 
 The point is not that projects like Lafitte should be painstakingly restored to their original condition; nor are we likely to return to the same spirit of social optimism that created them any time soon. None of the projects rise to the level, say, of the best Modernist workers housing built in Europe in the 1920s, some of which were such refined architectural compositions that their apartments are now occupied by upper-middle-class sophisticates.
 But they certainly rank above the level of much of the conventional middle-class housing being churned out today. And it is not difficult to imagine how a number of thoughtful modifications -- the addition of new buildings, extensive landscaping, extending the existing street grid to anchor the project more firmly into the city -- could transform the project into model housing.
 Yet HUD has never seriously considered such a plan. And although HUD says it has studied what it would cost to restore the projects, it has not released any figures. Finally, it has been unwilling to acknowledge the psychic damage of ripping out more of the city's fabric at a time when New Orleans has yet to heal the wounds of Hurricane Katrina.
 HUD officials say they have not yet set a date for demolition, but they have already selected a team of developers -- Enterprise Community Partners and Providence Community Housing, an arm of the Catholic church -- which are working on plans for the site. Meanwhile, HUD's vision of the future is already visible several miles away at the New Fischer development in Algiers. Built to replace a decaying 1960s-era housing complex, part of which is still under demolition, the neighborhood's rows of two-story houses, painted in cheery pastel colors, will be occupied by a mix of low- and middle-income families. Its porch-lined streets are straight from a Norman Rockwell painting of small-town America.
 But in many ways, the development is also an illusion. Conceived as an internalized world, with the majority of its narrow streets dead-ending into nowhere, the development is virtually cut off from the lifeblood of the surrounding city -- the shops, streets, parks and freeways that weave the city into an urban whole. And its uniform rows of houses represent a vision of conformity that has little to do with urban life. Instead, it replaces one vision of social isolation with another.
 In its broadest sense, that approach is part of the continued assault against cities as places of contact and friction, where life is embraced in its full range. By smoothing over differences, it seeks to make the city safe for returning suburbanites and tourists. 
 This is a fool's game. The challenge in New Orleans is to piece together the fragments of a shattered culture. 
 Sadly, HUD's plan manages to trivialize the past without engaging the painful realities that have shorn this city apart.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Before the Flood -- The Lafitte housing development in New Orleans, in 1940 when it worked well. Plans call for razing it. (Photo by Louisiana Division, New Orleans Public Library)(pg. 1)
Old-Style Projects -- The B. W. Cooper Housing Project in New Orleans, which is being demolished, at one time fulfilled much of the New Urbanist ideal.
 New-Style Projects -- A low-income development in New Orleans has pastel houses and narrow streets, but is cut off from the city. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (92%); CITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%) Housing; Public Housing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%) Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



440 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/Grand Concourse; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Loew's Paradise Is Once Again Worthy of Its Name

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PRODDED along by Gerald Lieblich, an entrepreneur and restaurant owner, Loew's Paradise, which opened in 1929 at 184th Street and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, seems to have conquered its troubled renovation history. It reopened last fall as a site for concerts and private parties: Boyz II Men is scheduled later this month, and a reggae show is planned for mid-January. 
 The very modern energy of such performers is in a way a fitting homage to the Paradise's architect, John Eberson, with his funhouse palette and signature night-sky ceiling. His invention of the ''atmospheric'' theater brought ingenuity to a building type that was often just an exercise in overloaded gilt and velvet. 
Mr. Eberson was educated in Dresden and Vienna and came to the United States about 1901. His son, Drew, wrote in the 1975 annual of the Theater Historical Society that his father had fought several duels and had the scars to prove it. 
 Mr. Eberson began his career in the United States by designing opera houses and theaters in the Midwest, at first following the traditional pattern of treating the auditorium as a conventional room, although often outlandishly palatial. But in 1923 that changed. He gave his Majestic Theater, in Houston, wildly classical walls -- including a reproduction of the Porch of the Maidens on the Acropolis -- but a dead-plain ceiling, onto which were projected moving clouds. The idea goes back to Classical times and beyond, but its use in a movie house was unusual. 
 While researching Florida theaters, Michael Kinerk and Dennis Wilhelm located a 1926 Tampa Tribune interview in which Mr. Eberson explained his point of inspiration: ''I have been wintering in Florida for the past several years, and it is from this state that I got the atmospheric idea. I was impressed with the colorful scenes that greeted me at Miami, Palm Beach and Tampa. Visions of Italian gardens, Spanish patios, Persian shrines and French formal gardens flashed through my mind, and at once I directed my energies to carrying out these ideas.'' 
 ''Atmospherics'' caught on, and in 1928 E. C. Murphy, writing in Pencil Points magazine, said Mr. Eberson had ''dotted the country with large motion picture theaters of this kind.'' 
 One of Mr. Eberson's ''dots'' landed on the Grand Concourse just south of Fordham Road in 1929. Loew's Paradise has an elaborate terra-cotta facade, but that hardly prepares visitors for the extravaganza awaiting within. 
 The grand foyer is in a palatial style of a kind: five or six palaces seem to have been crammed into one. The double-height room is thick with vaults, ceiling murals, chandeliers, ironwork, busts and the like. 
 But it is the auditorium that may induce gasps. It is an architectural atomic pile with the control rods pulled all the way out. Balustrades, urns, statues, caryatids, scrolls and niches jostle one another over the proscenium and across the side walls -- which themselves end in a mock rooftop treatment, with terraces, porches and other features.
 These all yield to a huge, curved blank ceiling, now painted a deep, rich blue. Historical photographs show that artificial vines, trees and birds once added to the outdoor effect. In 1929, Architecture and Building magazine noted with some understatement that ''decorative artifice is carried to the extreme.'' 
 Theaters like Loew's Paradise presented both movies and stage shows. An October 1929 ad for the Paradise offered both John Gilbert in the movie ''His Glorious Night'' -- billed as ''his first all-talking picture'' -- and a ''modernistic revue,'' called ''Dyno-Maniacs,'' performed by Dave Schooler and the Paradise Serenaders. 
 Mr. Eberson designed two other atmospherics in New York City: the fantastic Valencia Theater in Jamaica, Queens, built in 1929 in the Spanish Renaissance style, and the Lane Theater in New Dorp, Staten Island, built in 1938 in an outer-space motif. 
 By the time of his death in 1954, Mr. Eberson had designed more than 500 theaters, and his son took over his practice. 
 By then, the Paradise was entering a slow decline. After being divided into two and then four theaters, it closed in 1994. An entrepreneur soon started restoration work, but the project was troubled by conflicting claims. It was not until 2004 that Mr. Lieblich, who owns the Russian Tea Room and Beppe in Manhattan, began his attempt to reopen the theater, succeeding a year later. 
 To walk into the Paradise Theater now is to be cowed into insignificance. Colors, lights, shapes -- it is an architectural acid trip. The flutes in the classical pilasters have been painted red; the statues in the niches are lighted from underneath with pulsing violet, green, blue and yellow lights; the individual coffers in the niches behind the statues have been painted red and blue, and the egg-and-dart detail has been picked out in the same colors. 
 Evergreene Studios handled the painting restoration. 
 Mr. Lieblich said that things are fine economically at the new/old Paradise. ''I'm very happy'' was how he put it. 
 Group tours are planned on some weekends in the spring; details will be posted at theparadisetheater.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: INTO ANOTHER WORLD -- At his death in 1954, John Eberson had designed more than 500 theaters, including Loew's Paradise at 184th Street and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. Its restored interior, above, looks much as it did when it opened in 1929, right. (Photo by Theater Historical Society)
(Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Athenaeum of Philadelphia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); HISTORY (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (74%); GARDENING (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%) Theaters (Buildings); Loew's Paradise Theater (Bronx, NYC); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Historic Buildings and Sites

PERSON: Christopher Gray; John (1875-1954) Eberson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



441 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Pockets of Vigor in a Frail Market

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IF Tip O'Neill had sold houses for a living, he might have declared that all real estate is local. That seems particularly true when the market is struggling. In some parts of Westchester, the market is clearly in a downturn, if not a full-blown real estate recession, and yet other locales seem relatively untouched.
 In most towns, villages and cities, real estate agents report flagging sales and increasingly frustrated sellers. Homes are staying on the market longer, inventory is building and buyers are biding their time.
In response, most brokers are exhorting sellers ''to get real,'' said Sona Davidian, a broker-owner at C. S. McClellan Real Estate in Pelham. That means cutting prices to reflect the market changes. 
 Or as Diana Hellman, a sales agent with Merritt Associates in Larchmont, explained it: ''If a property is priced right, it will sell. It just may not sell for as much as one hoped for.''
 For the county as a whole, the number of sales of existing homes dropped 17 percent in the third quarter of this year from the corresponding quarter a year ago -- to 2,718 units from 3,278, according to figures from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. 
 Nevertheless, the median sales price of a single-family home was higher than a year earlier, although barely, at $716,000, compared with $711,700 in the third quarter of 2005.
 But one place that seems to be holding up better than most is Larchmont. There, the number of sales for the first 10 months so far this year has exceeded the corresponding period in 2005, with 157 sales this year, up from 147 a year earlier, said Debbie Doern, manager of Century 21 Residential Brokerage. In addition, the median sales price during the period was slightly more than $1.1 million, up from $999,000 a year earlier.
 Ms. Hellman at Merritt Associates attributed the village's relative resistance to a distinctive combination of assets: an architecturally varied and well-maintained housing stock from the 1920s and 1930s; a thriving downtown within walking distance of almost anywhere else in the village; a location next to Long Island Sound; and proximity to Manhattan.
 Farther north, on the Village Green in Bedford, Missy Renwick, the broker-owner of Renwick & Winterling, a family-owned real estate agency, reported that some towns -- among them Pound Ridge, Armonk and Bedford -- have so far remained relatively unscathed. 
 ''Gosh, everybody is saying the market is awful,'' Ms. Renwick said, ''but we just had the best October in a long time, with a $17 million sale, two $7 million sales and some for $5 million. At worst, we have a few low bidders out there looking at the leftovers.''
 In one segment of Westchester's market, that of new luxury condominium sales, the sales picture has been downright rosy. As Louis R. Cappelli, a Valhalla-based developer, observed, referring to condos he is building, ''there may be a slowdown in some locations, but we're certainly not seeing it in White Plains and New Rochelle.'' 
 Since the sales center opened last month, Mr. Cappelli said, contracts have been signed for more than a third of the units at his 44-story Residences at the Ritz-Carlton in White Plains -- where prices range from $750,000 to more than $6 million. 
 At Trump Plaza in New Rochelle, which Mr. Cappelli is building in partnership with Donald J. Trump, more than 50 percent of the condos have sold since the spring, he said. The units there range from $500,000 for a one-bedroom to $1.4 million for a three-bedroom penthouse.
 As for new construction of single-family homes, there are few large tracts of land left in the county for major building projects. But at smaller in-fill projects, like the new town houses for sale on the south side of New Rochelle on Pelham Avenue near the Long Island Sound, none of the 10 units at AnnMar Gardens have sold since they went on the market early in the summer.
 Rose Bulfamante, an agent for Century 21 Mancuso, said that because of the slow market, the developer was considering dropping the asking prices -- $779,000 to $849,000 -- on the three-bedroom units and offering the incentive of a year's membership at a local beach club.
 In Bronxville, a fashionable village with a quaint downtown and a well-maintained housing stock, prices generally tend to be higher than in neighboring communities. But sales there have been slow in recent months, and houses are staying on the market for relatively long periods, said Leah Caro, broker-owner of Bronxville-Ley Real Estate.
 ''Even a community like Bronxville doesn't exist in a vacuum when it comes to this market,'' she said. ''Some places may be more insulated than others, but only a rare few are altogether immune.'' 
 In many ways, Bronxville might be expected to attract to the same kind of people who are drawn to Larchmont. Ms. Caro speculated that potential buyers in Bronxville might be holding off until a villagewide revaluation of property is completed this winter.
 As for homeowners, they have seen the breathtaking prices that their neighbors' houses fetched last year, and they want the same. But like Sean and Lynn Leary, whose vintage 1920s colonial in Pelham Manor has been on the market since July, many have had to adjust their sights. 
 The Learys' house came on the market for $1.289 million and sat without offers throughout the summer and early fall. The couple have since lowered the asking price to $1.199 million, and Mr. Leary has torn down the original two-gar garage, which was in poor condition, and is building a new one in its place.
 ''Some people say it's an ego thing with sellers not wanting to accept lower offers,'' said Mr. Leary, a commercial real estate broker, ''but that's not really the case, at least with us. It's more about sellers like us who are just trying to understand what's happening. Sometimes, it feels like we're trying to catch a falling knife. We're trying to anticipate what's going to happen next.''
 At the offices of the Westchester County Board of Realtors in White Plains, P. Gilbert Mercurio, the chief executive, offered a general overview of the market. ''It's pretty clear to me that nationally we're seeing a pullback in the real estate market,'' he said. ''In some places, it's truly a burst bubble; in other places, like in Westchester and Putnam, it's more like a correction.''
 Over all, Westchester has fared better than many other places in the nation because there has not been the overbuilding in the new home market here that there has been elsewhere, Mr. Mercurio said. 
 ''And Westchester hasn't been a market driven by speculators,'' he said. ''What we had was a feverish market with very high prices, and we were due for some relief.''
 Mr. Mercurio noted that unless a seller acquired a home last year, when prices were at an all-time high in the county, and had to sell this year, most homeowners are still sitting on profits, pricing pressure notwithstanding. ''They're not going to be hurt,'' he said, ''although they may not get as much as they hoped for.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The ''In the Region'' article in some copies last Sunday about residential sales trends in Westchester County misstated the professional affiliation of Debbie Doern, one of the real estate experts interviewed. She is manager of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, not Century 21 Residential Brokerage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: IMPROVING SALABILITY -- With his 1920s colonial in Pelham Manor languishing on the market, Sean Leary has dropped the price and is replacing the two-car garage. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); FAMILY (70%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (59%) Housing; Advertising and Marketing; Children and Youth; Wages and Salaries; Signs; Housing; Sales; Condominiums; Housing

PERSON: Rebecca Fairley Raney; Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%) California; Westchester County (NY); Larchmont (NY); Bedford (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



442 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: A Move to Set 'Suitability' Rules

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
IT still comes as a surprise to many borrowers: Although mortgage lenders and brokers often take care to line them up with loans that best suit their financial interests, there is no legal requirement that they do so. 
 At least at the moment.
In response to a stream of reports suggesting a rise in so-called predatory lending practices, in which unscrupulous brokers or lenders place borrowers in unduly risky loans simply to earn a quick commission, some regulators and advocacy groups have begun calling for laws making lenders more responsible for protecting borrowers' interests. 
 Mortgage executives say that such measures are unnecessary and are bracing for a legislative battle that could shape the way borrowers shop for mortgages.
 This issue turns on ''suitability standards,'' which lenders would follow to find loans that fit borrowers' needs. The model is the relationship between investors and stockbrokers, who, by law, must act with their clients' best interests in mind.
 Many lenders and brokers pride themselves on finding good loan terms for their clients, in the interest of building a good reputation with prospective borrowers. But they earn money mostly on commissions for loans they broker or by reselling packages of loans to investors. So, when deciding whether to make a good commission selling a loan to a borrower who, although qualified, may be taking a huge risk, some would rather take the commission than warn the borrower.
 The federal government in recent months has adopted rules that, some say, are close to suitability standards, while stopping short of mandating that lenders make only loans that best suit their customers' interests. In late September, federal lending regulators began requiring lenders to do more to ensure that borrowers taking out certain loans understand the risks and are able to repay the debt.
 Earlier this year, Ohio passed a law assigning a ''duty of fair dealing'' to those who sell loans to consumers. 
 Uriah King, a policy analyst for the Center for Responsible Lending, an advocacy group in Durham, N.C., said that Ohio regulators were still formulating guidelines for what constitutes ''fair dealing'' by lenders, so it was too soon to describe Ohio's new law as a suitability standard. But, Mr. King said, other states are watching Ohio to see how they might enact similar regulations.
 Kurt Pfotenhauer, the senior vice president for government affairs and public policy at the Mortgage Bankers Association, said he expected more discussion of suitability standards when the next Congress convenes. ''But we believe the consumer is the best one to determine the loan product that's best for their individual circumstances,'' Mr. Pfotenhauer said.
 ''Frankly, both parties in the transaction have obligations,'' he added. ''If it's the biggest purchase of your life, you have some responsibility to define your needs realistically and learn about your options. The lender has the obligation to make sure it's easy for people to learn their options. They also have enormous economic incentive to make a successful loan.''
 Mr. King said some lenders had begun suffering economic repercussions from making loans to those who could not repay -- particularly those in the so-called subprime market serving those with poor credit. 
 ''But I'm not convinced that'll be enough for the market to clean itself up,'' Mr. King said. ''And in the meantime, millions of folks may well lose homes. And remember, particularly for working families, the only real asset they have is equity in their home.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); LOAN BROKERS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Housing; Mortgages; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (52%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



443 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Mileage in the Real World: The Devil Is in the Details

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
What is the real fuel economy of a given vehicle? Hybrid or not, it depends entirely on how you drive. Do you race away from stoplights or take it nice and easy? Is the air-conditioner running? Are the tires properly inflated? What's the outside temperature? If you try to coax the best mileage from your car, you will get much different results than if your right foot has turned to lead. Here are some notes from a journal I kept while test-driving the Saturn Vue Green Line and the Mercury Mariner Hybrid. BRADLEY BERMAN

SATURN VUE GREEN LINE 

My first two days with the Green Line are spent running local errands around my home in Berkeley, Calif. On most trips, by the time the engine is warmed up I'm already back home -- not an ideal way to test mileage. The auto-stop function works great -- it shuts the engine off when the Vue is stationary -- but the ride feels heavy. The transmission "grabs" too quickly, not letting me coast for as long as I would like.
71 miles, 21 m.p.g.

On a family kayaking trip to Tomales Bay, the highway drive provdes an opportunity for good mileage. On our return, Lucas Valley Road (where scenes from ''Star Wars'' were filmed ) is an enjoyable ride -- but the winding roads bring the mileage down.
94 miles, 27 m.p.g.

I spend the next day and a half running errands and shuttling the kids -- and making an attempt to get the worst possible mileage. I speed up before braking at red lights and stomp on the accelerator when the light turns green.
34 miles, 18.5 m.p.g.

I try to see if I can beat the E.P.A. highway estimate of 32 m.p.g. Trying to avoid any trace of traffic, I go for a late-night spin. I keep a steady pace between 55 and 60 m.p.h., accelerating very slowly. I stay in the far right lane. The auto-stop feature doesn't help me at these speeds, but my light foot and good aerodynamics pay off in impressive mileage for a sport utility.
78 miles, 35.6 m.p.g.

On my final trip, I take a double shot of espresso and let the Vue loose on the exact same route. The Green Line has decent but not impressive acceleration. When I go full throttle to gain speed, maintain a pace of 75 to 80 m.p.h., use the air-conditioning and brake quickly to stop, the mileage drops by 30 percent.
78 miles, 23.7 m.p.g.

TOTAL: 355 miles; 25 average m.p.g.

MERCURY MARINER HYBRID

I am mesmerized by the eerily silent all-electric drive, and by the in-dash monitor that shows the flow of energy to, from and among the engine, electric motor, batteries and wheels. Despite less than ideal city conditions -- frequent stops and short trips -- I do my best to keep the Mariner in ''E.V.'' (all electric) mode.
67 miles, 35.4 m.p.g.

My family takes a weekend hiking trip on Mount Diablo. I want to give the Mariner its first try on the highway, but we are stuck in traffic for most of the trip. In a full hybrid, that's not all bad. I remind myself that the Mariner gets better mileage in the city than on the highway and manage to stay above 30 m.p.g. for the trip.
62 miles, 30.7 m.p.g.

Again, I put on my white hat and use every trick to get the best mileage: I never exceed the speed limit, don't accelerate rapidly or use the air-conditioner and coast whenever possible. I even manage to draft behind an 18-wheeler, letting it block the wind. The effort pays off.
78 miles, 37.5 m.p.g.

I combine fast highway driving and multiple, aggressive city trips without allowing time for a proper warm-up. The full E.V. mode doesn't engage until the vehicle has warmed up. It's the worst possible condition.
34 miles, 23.6 m.p.g.

On a city trip, I do my best to drive like an idiot. I race up to stoplights, weave in and out of traffic and exceed the speed limit. Still the mileage doesn't drop below 26.
37 miles, 26.1 m.p.g.

On my final nighttime loop, I do my Jeff Gordon imitation: 75-85 m.p.h. all the way, with the air-conditioner running. The only vehicles that pass me are even bigger S.U.V.'s. I knock the mileage down from my previous highway run by almost 10 m.p.g.
78 miles, 28.2 m.p.g.

TOTAL: 356 miles, 29.7 average m.p.g.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (73%) Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: Saturn Division of General Motors Corp; Mercury Division of Ford Motor Co

PERSON: Bradley Berman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



444 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: A New Class War: The Haves Vs. The Have Mores

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
AT this time every year, there's chatter about the magnitude of year-end bonuses in the financial sector, and the attendant fallout (or trickle-down): large tables at Peter Luger will be hard to come by in December; co-op sales will be healthy in January; and the gals who work the poles at Scores will receive more marriage proposals (and when the men who are proposing turn out to be already married, more jewelry) than ever before.
 This year's special contribution to the canon may be the argument that the moment has arrived for a battle that looks to most of the population like a battle among peers, which in a sense it is: the rich versus the rich, the meritocrats versus the meritocrats, the ambitious versus the ambitious. But it also pits two highly distinct groups, the merely rich and the superrich. 
Let's define the terms first, or at least make some attempt to. The merely rich are those whose income puts them in the top 1 percent of the population. According to a recent study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, the average real income for the top 1 percent of American taxpaying households was $940,000 in 2004 -- a difficult group to feel pity for. But to stand for a moment on its shores (let's pretend) and look toward the rapidly growing ranks of the superrich is to stare across a vast chasm indeed.
 The superrich might be the top tenth of 1 percent (average real household income for 2004: $4.5 million) or the top hundredth (the $20-million-a-year households). Income inequality is growing fastest the higher we go up the chart. While the percentage change in average real household income between 1990 and 2004 was an increase of 2 percent for the bottom 90 percent of American households, it was 57 percent for the top 1 percent; and shot up to 85 percent for the top 0.1 percent; and up to 112 percent for the top .01 percent. That is, the richest are getting richer almost twice as fast as the rich.
 Class warfare has been hypothesized by various publications, including the online magazine Slate, New York magazine and Matt Miller in Fortune last month. Mr. Miller calls the bigger and poorer group, which consists largely of professionals -- doctors, lawyers, management consultants, the vast majority of Wall Street soldiers -- the ''lower-uppers.'' The targets of their resentment, he says, are by and large hedge fund managers and certain astronomically paid C.E.O.'s. 
 ''The problem is that there's all this wealth at this new strata that feels unrelated to merit or achievement,'' Mr. Miller says. ''When a C.E.O. whose leadership has caused a company's stock price to fall gets a $100 million golden parachute, or when a guy's running so much money that his commission -- even if his picks are only getting an 8 or 10 percent return on his client's money -- is $100 million, that's crazy.'' He says that such compensation ''goes against the notion of a meritocracy.''
 Or maybe not. ''A meritocracy increases inequality -- by its very nature, it has to,'' says Nicholas Lemann, whose book ''The Big Test'' explored the history of the SAT and the American meritocracy. ''The goal was equality of opportunity, not equality of result.'' 
 Part of the problem may lie with the fact that the members of both classes went into their respective lines of work with the goal of making a lot of money, and one just happens to make several times more of it.
 Take the lawyers. ''Lawyers are an odd group,'' says the novelist Louis Begley, whose day job for several decades has been practicing law with the white-shoe firm Debevoise & Plimpton. ''Lawyers at the great law firms earn a lot of money. But for a good many of them, it's impossible to do so without accepting anything but cases involving huge corporate deals that generate a great many hours they can charge for. But these deals are repetitive. And the lawyers in these transactions often play second fiddle to the bankers.''
 The money paid to investment bankers, who were once the stronghold of the financial elite, typically pales next to hedge-fund money. ''I recently hosted a panel with Carl Icahn at the Core Club where the whole point was that if you're an investment banker nowadays, you're kind of a schlepper,'' says Michael Wolff, a Vanity Fair writer who has often written about the moneyed classes. ''Investment banking is for the C+ students now. Where you want to be is not somebody who's advising people with money -- whose currency is intellectual capital -- but somebody whose currency is money itself.''
 This, too, may be what irks the professional classes. Managing a hedge fund is the purest abstraction of making money out of money -- there is no other product to show for it. 
 The resentment may be intensified in New York, a city whose physical layout has always engendered a lot of class-mixing. The middle class might have been largely squeezed out of Manhattan over the past decade, but the merely rich and the superrich still live in the same neighborhoods (if not necessarily the same buildings), buy houses in the same Hamptons (just houses of very different scales), and send their children to the same schools.
 Mr. Lemann said that the rich versus richer envy factor ''assumes that the relatively poor group is bumping into the most upper income.'' 
 He added, ''You might only see it at, say, functions that parents go to at certain rarefied private schools -- Fieldston, say, or Harvard-Westlake in Los Angeles.''
 Even Mr. Begley, who has earned enough to raise a large family in a grand apartment on Park Avenue, said he was astonished by the sheer number of billionaires he has met in recent years. 
 ''I must say, I've begun to feel in New York as if I were driving a Volkswagen on the highway when a Greyhound bus happens to go by,'' he said. ''At which point, I feel a whoosh of air blasting me off the road. These people belong to another species.''
 Except, he said, that it's ''these young Wall Street types'' buying up the apartments in his building. ''There are maybe four or five of us who bought our apartments at some understandable price 30 years ago,'' he said. ''And then these new people -- I must say, with the money seems to come a rather large physical size. Some of them are polite, but the men do fill the elevator cage. And the women always seem to have a bottle of water attached to their mouths.''
 He added that he did not feel any need to engage in class warfare against his neighbors. ''If I did, they might crush me against the elevator wall,'' he said. ''The only thing to do is get adopted by them.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Bower)(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Richer You Are ...''Growth in income from 1990 to 2004 among segments of American taxpayers. Adjusted for inflation.Bottom 90% of taxpayers: 2%Top 1%: 57%Top 0.1%: 85%Average income in 2004:Bottom 90% of taxpayers: $28,355Top 1%: $940,441Top 0.1%: $4,506,291(Source by Calculations by Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, based on data from Thomas Piketty [Center for Economic Policy Research] and Emmanuel Saez [University of California, Berkeley])(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) United States Economy; Income; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (82%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

PERSON: Eric Konigsberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



445 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: The Great Liberator

BYLINE: By Lawrence H. Summers. 
Lawrence H. Summers, a university professor of economics at Harvard, was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.

DATELINE: BROOKLINE, MASS. 

 BODY:
IF John Maynard Keynes was the most influential economist of the first half of the 20th century, then Milton Friedman was the most influential economist of the second half. 
 Not so long ago, we were all Keynesians. (''I am a Keynesian,'' Richard Nixon famously said in 1971.) Equally, any honest Democrat will admit that we are now all Friedmanites. Mr. Friedman, who died last week at 94, never held elected office but he has had more influence on economic policy as it is practiced around the world today than any other modern figure.
I grew up in a family of progressive economists, and Milton Friedman was a devil figure. But over time, as I studied economics myself and as the world evolved, I came to have grudging respect and then great admiration for him and for his ideas. No contemporary economist anywhere on the political spectrum combined Mr. Friedman's commitment to clarity of thought and argument, to scientifically examining evidence and to identifying policies that will make societies function better. 
 Mr. Friedman is perhaps best known for his views on money and monetary policy. Fierce debates continue on how the Federal Reserve and other central banks should set monetary policy. But the debates take place within the context of nearly total agreement on some basics: Monetary policy can shape an economy more than budgetary policy can; extended high inflation will not lead to prosperity and can lead to lower living standards; policy makers cannot fine-tune their economies as they fluctuate. 
 These insights may seem self-evident -- but they were won through a combination of Mr. Friedman's powerful argument and painful experience. I know. As an undergraduate in the early 1970s, I was taught that everyone other than Milton Friedman and a few other dissidents knew that fiscal policy was of primary importance for stabilizing economies, that the Phillips curve could be exploited to increase employment if only society would tolerate some increase in inflation and that economists would soon be able to tame economic fluctuations through finely calibrated policies. When I started teaching undergraduates a decade later, Mr. Friedman's heresies had become the orthodoxy.
 While much of his academic work was directed at monetary policy, Mr. Friedman's great popular contribution lay elsewhere: in convincing people of the importance of allowing free markets to operate. 
 From what I've heard, Milton Friedman's participation on a government commission on the volunteer military in the late 1960s was a kind of intellectual version of the play ''Twelve Angry Men.'' Gradually, through force of persistent argument and marshaling of evidence, he brought his fellow commission members around to the previously unthinkable view that both our national security and our broader interest would be best served by a volunteer military. 
 Another example of Mr. Friedman's influence is the structure of modern financial markets. Today we take it as given that free financial markets shape finance. The dollar fluctuates unhindered against other currencies and there is an entire industry of trading futures and options on interest rates and currencies. At the time Mr. Friedman first proposed flexible exchange rates and open financial markets, it was thought that they would be inherently destabilizing and that governments needed to control the movement of capital across international borders.
 There are other areas like vouchers for school choice, drug legalization and the abolition of certification requirements for lawyers, doctors and other professionals where Mr. Friedman has not yet and may never carry the day. But even in these areas, the climate of opinion and the nature of policy have shifted because of his powerful arguments.
 This all would be enough to mark Milton Friedman as a great man. But beyond Milton Friedman the economist, there was Milton Friedman the public philosopher. Ask reformers in any one of the countries behind what we used to call the Iron Curtain where they learned to contemplate alternatives to communism during the closed era before the Berlin Wall fell and they will often tell you about reading Milton Friedman and realizing how different their world could be. 
 Milton Friedman and I probably never voted the same way in any election. To my mind, his thinking gave too little weight to considerations of social justice and was far too cynical about the capacity of collective action to make people better off. I believe that some of the great challenges we face today, like rising inequality and global climate change, require that the free market be tempered instead of venerated. And like any economist, I have my list of areas where I believe Mr. Friedman oversimplified or was simply wrong. 
 Nonetheless, like many others I feel that I have lost a hero -- a man whose success demonstrates that great ideas convincingly advanced can change the lives of people around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); FAMILY (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) Economics

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); RICHARD NIXON (56%) Lawrence H Summers; Milton Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



446 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Smile Of Reason

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I've always blamed the University of Hawaii women's volleyball team, though perhaps that's not fair.
 As I was finishing college, I was invited to Stanford with a small group of young people to discuss economics with Milton Friedman for a PBS series called ''Tyranny of the Status Quo.'' I was a socialist then and spent several weeks studying left-wing economic doctrine in order to rebut the great man.
 On the afternoon of my final cram session, I found a chair by the hotel pool, but as I was mastering the high points of the Swedish regulatory regime, the Hawaii women's volleyball team settled around me, sunning themselves and cavorting in the water. Distracted for some reason, I did not go on to crush Friedman in debate that afternoon. 
 The show consisted of me making some left-wing argument, Friedman demolishing it in roughly six to eight words, and then me sitting there with my mouth agape trying to think of what to say.
 That night Friedman and his wife, Rose, took us out to dinner, and Milton pushed aside his plate of sweetbreads (which appalled me) and smilingly, clearly and engagingly, gave me a lesson in free market economics. 
 They say Voltaire glowed with the smile of reason, and Friedman did too. And while I never became a libertarian as he was, the encounter was one of the turning points in my life. It opened new ways of seeing the world and was an exhilarating demonstration of the power of ideas.
 I don't care what you think of his philosophy, Friedman's trek from the intellectual wilderness to global influence is one of the most exhilarating exodus stories of our time. The man who was once scorned as a free market crank ended up delivering rapturously attended lectures in China. 
 He was proudest of his contributions to technical economics, but he also possessed that rarest of gifts, a practical imagination, and was a fountain of concrete policy ideas. During World War II, he helped draw up plans to withhold people's income tax and then worked with mathematicians like Jack Wolfowitz (Paul's father) to calculate how many pieces artillery shells should burst into to produce maximum damage.
 In the ensuing years, he developed ideas like the volunteer army, the negative income tax (which evolved into the earned income tax credit), post office deregulation (which gave us FedEx), the flat tax and floating exchange rates.
 He promoted these ideas with relentless clarity and brevity. In the mid-80s I had a fellowship at the Hoover Institution and I used to listen to the economists around Friedman as they talked over coffee. One afternoon I foolishly tried to make a point and one of the other economists stomped on me with a long, jargon-filled lecture. When he asked me to respond, my face turned red and I finally blurted out, ''I'm sorry, I couldn't understand what you said.''
 Friedman roared with approving laughter. He believed in clear language, and as Samuel Brittan has noted, preferred the spoken to the written word. 
 His passing is sad for many reasons. One is that from the 1940s to the mid-1990s, American political life was shaped by a series of landmark books: ''Witness,'' ''The Vital Center,'' ''Capitalism and Freedom,'' ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' ''Losing Ground,'' ''The Closing of the American Mind.'' Then in the 1990s, those big books stopped coming. Now instead of books, we have blogs. 
 The big books stopped coming partly because the distinction between intellectual movements and political parties broke down. Friedman was never interested in partisan politics but was deeply engaged in policy. Today, team loyalty has taken over the wonk's world, so there are invisible boundaries that mark politically useful, and therefore socially acceptable, thought.
 His death is sad, too, because classical economics is under its greatest threat in a generation. Growing evidence suggests average workers are not seeing the benefits of their productivity gains -- that the market is broken and requires heavy government correction. Friedman's heirs have been avoiding this debate. They're losing it badly and have offered no concrete remedies to address this problem, if it is one.
 I saw Friedman a few times over the past decade, and he would always bring up school vouchers, his unrealized idea. He still brimmed with his faith -- which must have been there when he was a young boy -- in average people, making their own decisions, running their own lives, and doing it pretty well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); DEREGULATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INCOME TAX (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); TAX LAW (60%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%) Economics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (84%)

PERSON: David Brooks; Milton Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



447 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; SHOPPING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2322 words

HEADLINE: A Cappuccino With That $5,000 Suit?

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; Abby Gruen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THEY treat their customers like kings and queens. They send limos and greet clients by name, dispensing cappuccinos and elaborate gift wraps along with fashion advice. They send cards for birthdays and anniversaries, thank-you notes and flowers after large purchases. They know their clients' favorite baseball teams and, more to the point, their preferred designers. And on request, they let patrons shop after hours. 
 In a world of sprawling malls and big-box stores, high-end suburban retailers have survived by coddling the consumer. Swanky stores like Marshs in Huntington, N.Y.; Mary Jane Denzer in White Plains; Mitchells in Westport, Conn.; and Garmany in Red Bank, N.J., may carry the same pricey labels as elite department stores: Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, Ermenegildo Zegna, Ralph Lauren, Loro Piana. But these posh shops do more than move the merchandise; they make affluent shoppers feel pampered as they pull out their Platinum cards. 
On a recent afternoon, Debbi Barkoff, of Woodbury, N.Y., was trying on a $290 Empire-style black wool Vince turtleneck sweater in the dressing room at Marshs, which has been around for more than 80 years as a men's emporium. Arlene Pressman, a saleswoman, handed her a pair of leggings, promising that with either ballet slippers or short boots with a heel, the outfit would look divine on her coming trip to Italy. She might even want to wear it on the plane. 
 ''How cute are you?'' Ms. Pressman gushed. 
 Ms. Barkoff, 45, passed on the combination. But she has shopped at Marshs every week since it reopened in September, after a renovation that added a 5,000-square-foot designer women's department. 
 ''I love walking in and having a saleswoman greet me,'' said Ms. Barkoff, who on previous visits had bought a $365 leopard-print cashmere cardigan and a $425 navy Tory Burch blazer. ''I love the personalization, as opposed to walking into a big department store, where nobody helps you or cares about you.'' 
 Ms. Barkoff said she could wait for a coupon or find the same items elsewhere. But at Marshs, the salesclerk remembered her and knew what she liked. 
 ''I'd rather spend the extra money for that,'' she said. 
 Ms. Barkoff has plenty of company. Ted Taft, managing director of Meridian Consulting, a retail consulting company in Westport, said customers were looking for more than plain-vanilla cookie-cutter stores. ''People aren't just shopping for price, they are looking for shopping experiences,'' he said. 
 In some ways, Marshs is a throwback to the old days of small-town Main Street: a warm, friendly family-owned business. Ms. Barkoff's husband, Scott, 42, got his first suit there as a boy. These days, Marshs sells $5,000 men's suits, $4,000 women's suits, $1,800 handbags, $750 shoes and diamond jewelry. 
 Ron Marsh, the grandson of the founder, said that the store began upgrading its offerings in the 1970s, when competition from discounters and department stores started cutting into the business. ''It was a big challenge for all the specialty stores,'' he said. ''We evolved from more middle-upper merchandise to better merchandise through the years and kept on trading up.''
 Mr. Marsh said his store ''would do anything to make the customer happy.'' For example, if he knew customers were heading to a local restaurant, he might arrange for a bottle of wine to be sent to their table. Sometimes, he will dispatch a fitter to a client's home to help clean out -- and restock -- the closet. 
 Last year, Marshs was acquired by Mitchells/Richards of Connecticut, a third-generation family business that owns two high-end clothiers, Mitchells, in Westport, and Richards of Greenwich. (Recently, the company also acquired Vineyard Vines, a preppy sportswear and accessories shop in Greenwich.)
 Chris Mitchell, one of the seven Mitchell family members in the business, relocated with his family to Long Island to manage the store with Mr. Marsh. To make Marshs a top-notch specialty store, Mr. Marsh said, he needed the Mitchells expertise. 
 Jack Mitchell, the chief executive of Mitchells/Richards/Marshs, literally wrote the book on passionate customer service, ''Hug Your Customers: The Proven Way to Personalize Sales and Achieve Astounding Results'' (Hyperion, 2003). His wife, Linda, the stores' head buyer for women's attire, is equally customer-centric. 
 For example, when she attends fashion week in Milan or in Paris, she takes along a list of her customers' preferences, ''the kinds of things they like and the sizes they wear,'' she said. Then she buys the clothes she thinks they will like, but she has to be careful with the ball gowns. ''You don't want more than one person in the same dress,'' she said.
 Mr. Mitchell, 67, still works the floor at Mitchells on Saturdays, tape measure draped around his neck. He said that being successful was about relationships, not transactions. 
 ''We are all about treating each and every customer as if you were a friend,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''I call it hugging. That's how we can compete with the great stores in New York City. They are great stores. But why schlep to the city when you can find world-class people, world-class service and products in the suburbs?''
 Like Marshs and Richards, Mitchells provides free alterations; the three stores employ 54 tailors. Patricia Burrows, a psychotherapist from Weston, Conn., said the free tailoring made shopping there stress-free. 
 ''If I gain or lose a few pounds -- and inches -- I know that I can go back and have my clothes altered,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''It makes the high prices a little more palatable.'' 
 But, she said, she tries to restrain herself. ''It is impossible to find a sweater there for under $100, and if I shop there too much, my sense of economy and proportion will become totally distorted,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''But the clothes are often beautiful, and the espresso is always delicious.''
 There is similar cosseting at the CoCo Pari store in Red Bank, which doubles as an entertainment center on weekends. Cocktails and cappuccino are served, and club music plays until 11 p.m. Boyfriends and husbands wait out the shopping on a sofa, watching the flat-screen television above the display of Christian Louboutin and Jimmy Choo shoes. 
 Kimberly Landau, 30, opened the first CoCo Pari, in Deal, N.J., 10 years ago, inspired by her shopping excursions while on vacation in Miami's South Beach. She carries diffusion lines, like Dolce & Gabbana's D&G and M Missoni, a step below Missoni couture, for her customers.
 ''I dress them for the real world, not a red carpet,'' she said. Her clothing racks are arranged by color, not label, and possible pairings -- a Catherine Malandrino tweed jacket with Paige jeans, or a Robert Rodriguez leather jacket with Alvin Valley leather-trimmed pants -- make coordinating easy.
 At Mary Jane Denzer, in White Plains, outfits are less suggested than prescribed. Designed by the architect who built the Dior boutique on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles, the store's hushed central rotunda is lined with carefully selected clothes from a stable of designers -- including Akris, Valentino, Nina Ricci and Ungaro -- who have worked with Ms. Denzer for years. Her customers are wealthy women who buy the latest designer clothes each season and want complete ensembles.
 An outfit at Mary Jane Denzer costs at least $1,800, and nothing is sold without matching shoes, which can add another $1,000 to the bill. Gowns cost $2,500 to $10,000. Ms. Denzer herself is usually on the sales floor, often with her tiny dog Bodhi, a floppy-eared Papillon, in tow. ''Our customer is not looking for what they need,'' Ms. Denzer said. ''Our customer buys what they want.''
 At Garmany, in Red Bank, Larry Garmany and his son, Johnell, also serve the well-to-do. ''We have dresses here that are $8,000 to $9,000,'' Larry Garmany said. ''That's not for everybody.'' Neither are the $4,000 Kiton blazers or the $21,000 custom suits, which can be ordered from swatches of gold-threaded fabrics. The store has sold only one of those, but, Mr. Garmany said, ''Our sales staff is trained to handle people if a customer is going to spend $50,000 or just buy a tie.''
 Like Marshs, Garmany began as a menswear shop. Last year the Garmanys expanded the Red Bank outlet into a 40,000-square-foot, sophisticated department store. The first-floor men's department is divided into boutiques for designer brands like Canali and Zegna. Upstairs, in the spacious women's department, with its vaulted ceiling and atrium, crystal chandeliers and creamy colors add an aura of elegance. Even children are catered to, with DVDs screened in an authentic movie-theater setting. 
 Ray Catena, the owner of the luxury-car dealerships that bear his name, is a Garmany regular. If he arrives late, the store lets him finish his shopping, even if it is an hour past the usual 8 p.m. closing time. ''It's like having your own valet,'' Mr. Catena said.
 Dovie Damen, a jewelry designer from Manasquan, N.J., who was at CoCo Pari looking for a dress for a charity event, had another analogy: ''They make you feel like a movie star in here,'' she said. 
 But not everyone who can afford to shop at these stores wants to. Sheila Mossman, of Greenwich, Conn., is a triathlete and owns a golden retriever. She said she tried to patronize local businesses. She goes to Richards mostly for holiday gifts, but treated herself to an Armani suit. ''They do have some wonderful things for women,'' she said. ''But I am not comfortable wearing $2,000 worth of clothing on a daily basis.'' 
 For those who don't worry about dog hair, and who also want the perks and amenities that such hefty prices can command, these shops can be a perfect fit. When the Westchester Mall opened 10 years ago, Ms. Denzer's White Plains boutique -- 7,600 square feet, with space in the back for seven tailors and seamstresses -- was invited to move there, she said. But she decided to stay put on Mamaroneck Avenue. 
 ''My customers,'' she said, ''are not mall customers.'' 

From Walking Shoes to Baby Bedding, and a Chart to Guide You There
 The following is a sampling of independently owned shops in Westchester.

CHARLES DEPARTMENT STORE, 113 Katonah Avenue, Katonah, (914) 232-5200; charlesdeptstore.com. The shop has been run by the same family for 82 years. The first floor, with tin ceilings and rustic decor, carries an eclectic mix of sturdy walking shoes and cooking gadgets. The store also sells gas barbecue grills and smokers. ''Charles Upstairs'' offers a large selection of practical clothes like Patagonia jackets and sweaters.

ELEPHANT'S TRUNK, 111 Main Street, Mount Kisco, (914) 666-7666; elephantstrunk.com. Glittering handbags in improbable shapes compete with bejeweled chandeliers in this destination store for elegant formalwear. Its address has remained the same for 35 years.

MARCH, 1250 Pleasantville Road, Briarcliff Manor, (914) 923-2100; marchboutique.com. If you blink you may miss this tiny new outpost for up-and-coming designers from Manhattan. Opened seven weeks ago, March brings the SoHo aesthetic to Westchester with a mix of casual and dressy clothes for women and men. The men's corner shakes things up with bohemian styling for the suburban dad.

FAMILY DISCOUNT CENTER, 270 Halstead Avenue, Harrison, (914) 835-0123 and 112 South Ridge Street, Rye Brook, (914) 939-4321. These unprepossessing stores have large hardware, household goods, toys and cosmetics departments. Tucked in the back of each store are children's departments with designer clothes for babies through early adolescents. It also has ballet clothes and bathing caps.

GREELEY HOME AND HARDWARE, 59 South Greeley Avenue, Chappaqua, (914) 238-4474. It has been around for about 70 years. From doorknobs and drills to lighting and lawn care items, the store stocks products that are more useful than trendy. Near the front of the store, however, is a display of high-end Caldrea cleaning products, including $16 dishwasher detergent.

EPSTEIN'S DRY GOODS, 21 Columbus Avenue, Tuckahoe, (914) 961-2833. It began selling clothes in 1933. The store, which years ago included a large selection of Army surplus items, now has more fashionable clothes. Mavi Jeans are stocked next to the traditional Levi's, and the sportswear brands include Billabong and Quiksilver.

YELLOWBIRD MUSIC CENTER, 153 South Fourth Avenue, Mount Vernon, (914) 668-8373. The store has survived not one but three displacements in its 30-year history as an independent music store. Now in its fourth spot on the same block, it battles big music stores and the Internet, selling a range of hip-hop, rap and other urban music on CD and vinyl.

MARSHALL'S CHEESE SHOP, 27 Cedar Street, Dobbs Ferry, (914) 591-1997. Barbara Marshall loves cheese. So when the former executive found herself at the wrong end of the dot-com collapse, she decided to follow her passion. The result is a store where shoppers have a choice of 125 international and domestic cheeses, and accompaniments like gourmet beers, olive oils and crackers.

HASTINGS BOOTERY AND TOY COTTAGE, 2 Main Street, Hastings-on-Hudson, (914) 478-1243 and (914) 478-8426. It may not be the most obvious combination, but for Thomas Kwong, the owner, selling shoes and toys in one space makes sense. Customers can buy shoes for the family -- the Bootery stocks Stride Rite, New Balance and Timberland brands -- while picking up last-minute birthday presents. And, yes, he has had many customers who came in for shoes and leave with a Thomas the Tank Engine or a Lego set.

TRA-LA-LA, 46 Main Street, Irvington, (914) 591-5312. Theoni Katis, an interior designer, wanted to sell something out of the ordinary for children's rooms, so she combined high-end toys, like dolls and dress-up clothes, with children's furniture and even a home-design service.
 There is custom-made bedding, hand-painted gifts and furniture, and items like 19th-century vintage prints.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WANTS, NOT NEEDS -- Mary Jane Denzer, with Bodhi at her feet, outfits women from head to toe in her luxury shop in White Plains. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
POSH STOPS -- Marshs (Huntington, L.I.), Richards (Greenwich, Conn.), Mary Jane Denzer, Garmany (Red Bank, N.J.) and CoCo Pari (Red Bank). (Photographs by [from left] Vic DeLucia, Janet Durrans [2] and Laura Pedrick [2] for The New York Times)(pg. 2)
FAMILY AFFAIR -- Above, three generations of the Mitchell clan at Richards, in Greenwich, Conn. At left, Susan Harry in the women's evening wear department at Garmany in Red Bank, N.J. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SUBURBS (76%); MEN (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (60%); BASEBALL (57%) Apparel; Suburbs

COMPANY: ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%) Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



448 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SHOPPING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: A Cappuccino With That $5,000 Suit?

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; Abby Gruen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THEY treat their customers like kings and queens. They send limos and greet clients by name, dispensing cappuccinos and elaborate gift wraps along with fashion advice. They send cards for birthdays and anniversaries, thank-you notes and flowers after large purchases. They know their clients' favorite baseball teams and, more to the point, their preferred designers. And on request, they let patrons shop after hours. 
 In a world of sprawling malls and big-box stores, high-end suburban retailers have survived by coddling the consumer. Swanky stores like Marshs in Huntington, N.Y.; Mary Jane Denzer in White Plains; Mitchells in Westport, Conn.; and Garmany in Red Bank, N.J., may carry the same pricey labels as elite department stores: Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, Ermenegildo Zegna, Ralph Lauren, Loro Piana. But these posh shops do more than move the merchandise; they make affluent shoppers feel pampered as they pull out their Platinum cards. 
On a recent afternoon, Debbi Barkoff, of Woodbury, N.Y., was trying on a $290 Empire-style black wool Vince turtleneck sweater in the dressing room at Marshs, which has been around for more than 80 years as a men's emporium. Arlene Pressman, a saleswoman, handed her a pair of leggings, promising that with either ballet slippers or short boots with a heel, the outfit would look divine on her coming trip to Italy. She might even want to wear it on the plane. 
 ''How cute are you?'' Ms. Pressman gushed. 
 Ms. Barkoff, 45, passed on the combination. But she has shopped at Marshs every week since it reopened in September, after a renovation that added a 5,000-square-foot designer women's department. 
 ''I love walking in and having a saleswoman greet me,'' said Ms. Barkoff, who on previous visits had bought a $365 leopard-print cashmere cardigan and a $425 navy Tory Burch blazer. ''I love the personalization, as opposed to walking into a big department store, where nobody helps you or cares about you.'' 
 Ms. Barkoff said she could wait for a coupon or find the same items elsewhere. But at Marshs, the salesclerk remembered her and knew what she liked. 
 ''I'd rather spend the extra money for that,'' she said. 
 Ms. Barkoff has plenty of company. Ted Taft, managing director of Meridian Consulting, a retail consulting company in Westport, said customers were looking for more than plain-vanilla cookie-cutter stores. ''People aren't just shopping for price, they are looking for shopping experiences,'' he said. 
 In some ways, Marshs is a throwback to the old days of small-town Main Street: a warm, friendly family-owned business. Ms. Barkoff's husband, Scott, 42, got his first suit there as a boy. These days, Marshs sells $5,000 men's suits, $4,000 women's suits, $1,800 handbags, $750 shoes and diamond jewelry. 
 Ron Marsh, the grandson of the founder, said that the store began upgrading its offerings in the 1970s, when competition from discounters and department stores started cutting into the business. ''It was a big challenge for all the specialty stores,'' he said. ''We evolved from more middle-upper merchandise to better merchandise through the years and kept on trading up.''
 Mr. Marsh said his store ''would do anything to make the customer happy.'' For example, if he knew customers were heading to a local restaurant, he might arrange for a bottle of wine to be sent to their table. Sometimes, he will dispatch a fitter to a client's home to help clean out -- and restock -- the closet. 
 Last year, Marshs was acquired by Mitchells/Richards of Connecticut, a third-generation family business that owns two high-end clothiers, Mitchells, in Westport, and Richards of Greenwich. (Recently, the company also acquired Vineyard Vines, a preppy sportswear and accessories shop in Greenwich.)
 Chris Mitchell, one of the seven Mitchell family members in the business, relocated with his family to Long Island to manage the store with Mr. Marsh. To make Marshs a top-notch specialty store, Mr. Marsh said, he needed the Mitchells expertise. 
 Jack Mitchell, the chief executive of Mitchells/Richards/Marshs, literally wrote the book on passionate customer service, ''Hug Your Customers: The Proven Way to Personalize Sales and Achieve Astounding Results'' (Hyperion, 2003). His wife, Linda, the stores' head buyer for women's attire, is equally customer-centric. 
 For example, when she attends fashion week in Milan or in Paris, she takes along a list of her customers' preferences, ''the kinds of things they like and the sizes they wear,'' she said. Then she buys the clothes she thinks they will like, but she has to be careful with the ball gowns. ''You don't want more than one person in the same dress,'' she said.
 Mr. Mitchell, 67, still works the floor at Mitchells on Saturdays, tape measure draped around his neck. He said that being successful was about relationships, not transactions. 
 ''We are all about treating each and every customer as if you were a friend,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''I call it hugging. That's how we can compete with the great stores in New York City. They are great stores. But why schlep to the city when you can find world-class people, world-class service and products in the suburbs?''
 Like Marshs and Richards, Mitchells provides free alterations; the three stores employ 54 tailors. Patricia Burrows, a psychotherapist from Weston, Conn., said the free tailoring made shopping there stress-free. 
 ''If I gain or lose a few pounds -- and inches -- I know that I can go back and have my clothes altered,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''It makes the high prices a little more palatable.'' 
 But, she said, she tries to restrain herself. ''It is impossible to find a sweater there for under $100, and if I shop there too much, my sense of economy and proportion will become totally distorted,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''But the clothes are often beautiful, and the espresso is always delicious.''
 There is similar cosseting at the CoCo Pari store in Red Bank, which doubles as an entertainment center on weekends. Cocktails and cappuccino are served, and club music plays until 11 p.m. Boyfriends and husbands wait out the shopping on a sofa, watching the flat-screen television above the display of Christian Louboutin and Jimmy Choo shoes. 
 Kimberly Landau, 30, opened the first CoCo Pari, in Deal, N.J., 10 years ago, inspired by her shopping excursions while on vacation in Miami's South Beach. She carries diffusion lines, like Dolce & Gabbana's D&G and M Missoni, a step below Missoni couture, for her customers.
 ''I dress them for the real world, not a red carpet,'' she said. Her clothing racks are arranged by color, not label, and possible pairings -- a Catherine Malandrino tweed jacket with Paige jeans, or a Robert Rodriguez leather jacket with Alvin Valley leather-trimmed pants -- make coordinating easy.
 At Mary Jane Denzer, in White Plains, outfits are less suggested than prescribed. Designed by the architect who built the Dior boutique on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles, the store's hushed central rotunda is lined with carefully selected clothes from a stable of designers -- including Akris, Valentino, Nina Ricci and Ungaro -- who have worked with Ms. Denzer for years. Her customers are wealthy women who buy the latest designer clothes each season and want complete ensembles.
 An outfit at Mary Jane Denzer costs at least $1,800, and nothing is sold without matching shoes, which can add another $1,000 to the bill. Gowns cost $2,500 to $10,000. Ms. Denzer herself is usually on the sales floor, often with her tiny dog Bodhi, a floppy-eared Papillon, in tow. ''Our customer is not looking for what they need,'' Ms. Denzer said. ''Our customer buys what they want.''
 At Garmany, in Red Bank, Larry Garmany and his son, Johnell, also serve the well-to-do. ''We have dresses here that are $8,000 to $9,000,'' Larry Garmany said. ''That's not for everybody.'' Neither are the $4,000 Kiton blazers or the $21,000 custom suits, which can be ordered from swatches of gold-threaded fabrics. The store has sold only one of those, but, Mr. Garmany said, ''Our sales staff is trained to handle people if a customer is going to spend $50,000 or just buy a tie.''
 Like Marshs, Garmany began as a menswear shop. Last year the Garmanys expanded the Red Bank outlet into a 40,000-square-foot, sophisticated department store. The first-floor men's department is divided into boutiques for designer brands like Canali and Zegna. Upstairs, in the spacious women's department, with its vaulted ceiling and atrium, crystal chandeliers and creamy colors add an aura of elegance. Even children are catered to, with DVDs screened in an authentic movie-theater setting. 
 Ray Catena, the owner of the luxury-car dealerships that bear his name, is a Garmany regular. If he arrives late, the store lets him finish his shopping, even if it is an hour past the usual 8 p.m. closing time. ''It's like having your own valet,'' Mr. Catena said.
 Dovie Damen, a jewelry designer from Manasquan, N.J., who was at CoCo Pari looking for a dress for a charity event, had another analogy: ''They make you feel like a movie star in here,'' she said. 
 But not everyone who can afford to shop at these stores wants to. Sheila Mossman, of Greenwich, Conn., is a triathlete and owns a golden retriever. She said she tried to patronize local businesses. She goes to Richards mostly for holiday gifts, but treated herself to an Armani suit. ''They do have some wonderful things for women,'' she said. ''But I am not comfortable wearing $2,000 worth of clothing on a daily basis.'' 
 For those who don't worry about dog hair, and who also want the perks and amenities that such hefty prices can command, these shops can be a perfect fit. When the Westchester Mall opened 10 years ago, Ms. Denzer's White Plains boutique -- 7,600 square feet, with space in the back for seven tailors and seamstresses -- was invited to move there, she said. But she decided to stay put on Mamaroneck Avenue. 
 ''My customers,'' she said, ''are not mall customers.'' 

Where to Find Hula-Girl Shower Curtains and Sherlock Holmes's Cap
 The following is a sampling of independently owned shops in New Jersey. 

EDGEWATER
 Ambience, 22 City Place at the Promenade, Edgewater, (201) 945-9599; www.shopambience.com. This upscale women's clothing store, owned by Dorothy Regan and Grace Guido and in this location for two years, bills itself as ''The Best of SoHo in Edgewater.'' 

HADDONFIELD
 Six Clothing, 6 Mechanic Street, Haddonfield, (856) 216-0666; www.sixclothing.com. On a side street downtown, Six is owned by Sumer Delauro and her mother, Suzanne Sheahen. They sell contemporary clothing for older teenage girls and women of all ages. 

HOBOKEN
 Battaglia's, 319 Washington Street, Hoboken, (201) 798-1122; www.battagliashome.com. The 2,000-square-foot home accessories store owned by Brian Battaglia of Hoboken is packed with treasures from a hula-girl shower curtain to jewel-toned cocktail sets. 

HO-HO-KUS
 Close Knit, 612 North Maple Avenue, Ho-Ho-Kus, (201) 652-1994; www.closeknityarns.com. Owned by Jin Rubenstein and Kim Weiss, this shop, which opened last year, has yarn everywhere -- spilling out of cubbyholes, hanging from racks -- with the emphasis on quality. Classes are offered. 

MILLBURN
 Pad Home, 535 Millburn Avenue, Short Hills, (973) 467-4777, www.padhome.com. With enough goodies to launch a thousand dinner parties, this store specializing in tableware was opened by Parry Yohannan in 2002; it has expanded to sell home furnishings.

MONTCLAIR
 Dem Two Hands, 61 North Fullerton Avenue, Montclair; (973) 783-8344; www.demtwohands.com. Owned for 14 years by Marion Lake, this is a trove of eclectic women's clothing, accessories and gifts: flowing knits, luxurious silks and velvets, printed scarves and chunky jewelry. 

POINT PLEASANT BEACH
 Brave New World, 1208 Richmond Avenue, Point Pleasant Beach, (732) 899-8220; www.bravesurf.com. New Jersey's answer to L.L. Bean, this two-story department store has sold clothing and gear for surfing, skiing, snowboarding and hiking since 1974. There are outposts in Toms River and Little Silver. 

PRINCETON
 Jazams, 15 Hulfish Street, Princeton, (609) 924-8697; www.jazams.com. This toy store, which has a branch in Pennington, has been owned by Joanne Farrugia for seven years. It looks like Santa's workshop year round, with games, dolls, blocks, musical instruments, science kits and books. 
 The Cloak and Dagger, 349 Nassau Street, Princeton, (609) 688-9840; www.thecloakanddagger.com. This bookstore with its atmospheric displays -- look for Sherlock Holmes's cap -- was opened five years ago by Aline Lenaz. Rows of shelves are laden with paperbacks including police procedurals and many-part series.

RED BANK
 Red Ginger Home, 65 Monmouth Street, Red Bank, (732) 345-1000; www.redgingerhome.com. Reflecting the two passions of the owners, Rob Amend and Michael Yavorsky -- travel and home decor -- this year-old store features tasteful, eclectic furniture, housewares and toiletries from around the world. 

WESTFIELD
 Classic Thyme, 161 East Broad Street, Westfield, (908) 232-5445; www.classicthyme.com. This friendly shop sells cookware, serving pieces -- including lots of hand-painted Deruta pottery from Italy -- and ingredients like olive oils and sea salt. The owner, David P. Martone, who has been here for 10 years, is planning a move to a new location in town.

WESTWOOD
 The Gem Mine, 65 Westwood Avenue, Westwood; (201) 722-8676. Founded by the late Steve Rossi in 1970, and still run by his wife, Mary, and his daughter, Thea Day, the Gem Mine sells jewelry and knickknacks made from stones, fossils and shells, like a necklace of moss agate beads made by Ms. Day herself.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WANTS, NOT NEEDS -- Mary Jane Denzer, with Bodhi at her feet, outfits women from head to toe in her luxury shop in White Plains. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
POSH STOPS -- Marshs (Huntington, L.I.), Richards (Greenwich, Conn.), Mary Jane Denzer, Garmany (Red Bank, N.J.) and CoCo Pari (Red Bank). (Photographs by [from left] Vic DeLucia, Janet Durrans [2] and Laura Pedrick [2] for The New York Times)(pg. 2)
FAMILY AFFAIR -- Above, three generations of the Mitchell clan at Richards, in Greenwich, Conn. At left, Susan Harry in the women's evening wear department at Garmany in Red Bank, N.J. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SUBURBS (76%); MEN (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (60%); BASEBALL (57%) Apparel; Suburbs

COMPANY: ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%) Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



449 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; SHOPPING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2377 words

HEADLINE: A Cappuccino With That $5,000 Suit?

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; Abby Gruen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THEY treat their customers like kings and queens. They send limos and greet clients by name, dispensing cappuccinos and elaborate gift wraps along with fashion advice. They send cards for birthdays and anniversaries, thank-you notes and flowers after large purchases. They know their clients' favorite baseball teams and, more to the point, their preferred designers. And on request, they let patrons shop after hours. 
 In a world of sprawling malls and big-box stores, high-end suburban retailers have survived by coddling the consumer. Swanky stores like Marshs in Huntington, N.Y.; Mary Jane Denzer in White Plains; Mitchells in Westport, Conn.; and Garmany in Red Bank, N.J., may carry the same pricey labels as elite department stores: Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, Ermenegildo Zegna, Ralph Lauren, Loro Piana. But these posh shops do more than move the merchandise; they make affluent shoppers feel pampered as they pull out their Platinum cards. 
On a recent afternoon, Debbi Barkoff, of Woodbury, N.Y., was trying on a $290 Empire-style black wool Vince turtleneck sweater in the dressing room at Marshs, which has been around for more than 80 years as a men's emporium. Arlene Pressman, a saleswoman, handed her a pair of leggings, promising that with either ballet slippers or short boots with a heel, the outfit would look divine on her coming trip to Italy. She might even want to wear it on the plane. 
 ''How cute are you?'' Ms. Pressman gushed. 
 Ms. Barkoff, 45, passed on the combination. But she has shopped at Marshs every week since it reopened in September, after a renovation that added a 5,000-square-foot designer women's department. 
 ''I love walking in and having a saleswoman greet me,'' said Ms. Barkoff, who on previous visits had bought a $365 leopard-print cashmere cardigan and a $425 navy Tory Burch blazer. ''I love the personalization, as opposed to walking into a big department store, where nobody helps you or cares about you.'' 
 Ms. Barkoff said she could wait for a coupon or find the same items elsewhere. But at Marshs, the salesclerk remembered her and knew what she liked. 
 ''I'd rather spend the extra money for that,'' she said. 
 Ms. Barkoff has plenty of company. Ted Taft, managing director of Meridian Consulting, a retail consulting company in Westport, said customers were looking for more than plain-vanilla cookie-cutter stores. ''People aren't just shopping for price, they are looking for shopping experiences,'' he said. 
 In some ways, Marshs is a throwback to the old days of small-town Main Street: a warm, friendly family-owned business. Ms. Barkoff's husband, Scott, 42, got his first suit there as a boy. These days, Marshs sells $5,000 men's suits, $4,000 women's suits, $1,800 handbags, $750 shoes and diamond jewelry. 
 Ron Marsh, the grandson of the founder, said that the store began upgrading its offerings in the 1970s, when competition from discounters and department stores started cutting into the business. ''It was a big challenge for all the specialty stores,'' he said. ''We evolved from more middle-upper merchandise to better merchandise through the years and kept on trading up.''
 Mr. Marsh said his store ''would do anything to make the customer happy.'' For example, if he knew customers were heading to a local restaurant, he might arrange for a bottle of wine to be sent to their table. Sometimes, he will dispatch a fitter to a client's home to help clean out -- and restock -- the closet. 
 Last year, Marshs was acquired by Mitchells/Richards of Connecticut, a third-generation family business that owns two high-end clothiers, Mitchells, in Westport, and Richards of Greenwich. (Recently, the company also acquired Vineyard Vines, a preppy sportswear and accessories shop in Greenwich.)
 Chris Mitchell, one of the seven Mitchell family members in the business, relocated with his family to Long Island to manage the store with Mr. Marsh. To make Marshs a top-notch specialty store, Mr. Marsh said, he needed the Mitchells expertise. 
 Jack Mitchell, the chief executive of Mitchells/Richards/Marshs, literally wrote the book on passionate customer service, ''Hug Your Customers: The Proven Way to Personalize Sales and Achieve Astounding Results'' (Hyperion, 2003). His wife, Linda, the stores' head buyer for women's attire, is equally customer-centric. 
 For example, when she attends fashion week in Milan or in Paris, she takes along a list of her customers' preferences, ''the kinds of things they like and the sizes they wear,'' she said. Then she buys the clothes she thinks they will like, but she has to be careful with the ball gowns. ''You don't want more than one person in the same dress,'' she said.
 Mr. Mitchell, 67, still works the floor at Mitchells on Saturdays, tape measure draped around his neck. He said that being successful was about relationships, not transactions. 
 ''We are all about treating each and every customer as if you were a friend,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''I call it hugging. That's how we can compete with the great stores in New York City. They are great stores. But why schlep to the city when you can find world-class people, world-class service and products in the suburbs?''
 Like Marshs and Richards, Mitchells provides free alterations; the three stores employ 54 tailors. Patricia Burrows, a psychotherapist from Weston, Conn., said the free tailoring made shopping there stress-free. 
 ''If I gain or lose a few pounds -- and inches -- I know that I can go back and have my clothes altered,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''It makes the high prices a little more palatable.'' 
 But, she said, she tries to restrain herself. ''It is impossible to find a sweater there for under $100, and if I shop there too much, my sense of economy and proportion will become totally distorted,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''But the clothes are often beautiful, and the espresso is always delicious.''
 There is similar cosseting at the CoCo Pari store in Red Bank, which doubles as an entertainment center on weekends. Cocktails and cappuccino are served, and club music plays until 11 p.m. Boyfriends and husbands wait out the shopping on a sofa, watching the flat-screen television above the display of Christian Louboutin and Jimmy Choo shoes. 
 Kimberly Landau, 30, opened the first CoCo Pari, in Deal, N.J., 10 years ago, inspired by her shopping excursions while on vacation in Miami's South Beach. She carries diffusion lines, like Dolce & Gabbana's D&G and M Missoni, a step below Missoni couture, for her customers.
 ''I dress them for the real world, not a red carpet,'' she said. Her clothing racks are arranged by color, not label, and possible pairings -- a Catherine Malandrino tweed jacket with Paige jeans, or a Robert Rodriguez leather jacket with Alvin Valley leather-trimmed pants -- make coordinating easy.
 At Mary Jane Denzer, in White Plains, outfits are less suggested than prescribed. Designed by the architect who built the Dior boutique on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles, the store's hushed central rotunda is lined with carefully selected clothes from a stable of designers -- including Akris, Valentino, Nina Ricci and Ungaro -- who have worked with Ms. Denzer for years. Her customers are wealthy women who buy the latest designer clothes each season and want complete ensembles.
 An outfit at Mary Jane Denzer costs at least $1,800, and nothing is sold without matching shoes, which can add another $1,000 to the bill. Gowns cost $2,500 to $10,000. Ms. Denzer herself is usually on the sales floor, often with her tiny dog Bodhi, a floppy-eared Papillon, in tow. ''Our customer is not looking for what they need,'' Ms. Denzer said. ''Our customer buys what they want.''
 At Garmany, in Red Bank, Larry Garmany and his son, Johnell, also serve the well-to-do. ''We have dresses here that are $8,000 to $9,000,'' Larry Garmany said. ''That's not for everybody.'' Neither are the $4,000 Kiton blazers or the $21,000 custom suits, which can be ordered from swatches of gold-threaded fabrics. The store has sold only one of those, but, Mr. Garmany said, ''Our sales staff is trained to handle people if a customer is going to spend $50,000 or just buy a tie.''
 Like Marshs, Garmany began as a menswear shop. Last year the Garmanys expanded the Red Bank outlet into a 40,000-square-foot, sophisticated department store. The first-floor men's department is divided into boutiques for designer brands like Canali and Zegna. Upstairs, in the spacious women's department, with its vaulted ceiling and atrium, crystal chandeliers and creamy colors add an aura of elegance. Even children are catered to, with DVDs screened in an authentic movie-theater setting. 
 Ray Catena, the owner of the luxury-car dealerships that bear his name, is a Garmany regular. If he arrives late, the store lets him finish his shopping, even if it is an hour past the usual 8 p.m. closing time. ''It's like having your own valet,'' Mr. Catena said.
 Dovie Damen, a jewelry designer from Manasquan, N.J., who was at CoCo Pari looking for a dress for a charity event, had another analogy: ''They make you feel like a movie star in here,'' she said. 
 But not everyone who can afford to shop at these stores wants to. Sheila Mossman, of Greenwich, Conn., is a triathlete and owns a golden retriever. She said she tried to patronize local businesses. She goes to Richards mostly for holiday gifts, but treated herself to an Armani suit. ''They do have some wonderful things for women,'' she said. ''But I am not comfortable wearing $2,000 worth of clothing on a daily basis.'' 
 For those who don't worry about dog hair, and who also want the perks and amenities that such hefty prices can command, these shops can be a perfect fit. When the Westchester Mall opened 10 years ago, Ms. Denzer's White Plains boutique -- 7,600 square feet, with space in the back for seven tailors and seamstresses -- was invited to move there, she said. But she decided to stay put on Mamaroneck Avenue. 
 ''My customers,'' she said, ''are not mall customers.'' 

From Prom Dresses to Dog Treats -- and a Chart to Guide You There
 The following is a sampling of independently owned shops on Long Island.

LONDON JEWELERS -- Americana Manhasset, (516) 627-7475. London Jewelers was opened by Charles London 80 years ago in Glen Cove. Mark and Candy Udell and their children, Randi and Scott, continue the legacy, with additional stores in Manhasset, Greenvale, East Hampton and Southampton. The posh shops carry the finest gems and most prestigious jewelry and watch brands -- names like Rolex, Cartier, Van Cleef and Arpels, and David Yurman -- to delight even the most discriminating clients.

ESTELLE'S -- 1600 Broadhollow Road, Farmingdale, (631) 420-0890. Marty Schlossberg and Estelle Rosenthal started this women's clothing emporium in 1992 with 85 dressy dresses, all priced at $59, on one rack in a hard-to-find warehouse in Farmingdale. Estelle's is now housed in a 37,000-square-foot former car showroom on Route 110 and is stocked with 30,000 to 40,000 moderately priced dresses. It sold 17,000 prom dresses last year and does a whopping business in sweet-16 and quinceanera celebrations.

TEMPTATIONS FOR HER -- 3175 Long Beach Road, Oceanside, (516) 678-1150. Randi Kombert-Grann, who started this women's contemporary sportswear and accessories boutique 21 years ago, clothes her customers, whom she knows by first name, from head to toe with a custom look. Temptations also carries high-rise, mid-rise and low-rise jeans as well as couture wide-leg pants and contemporary straight-leg pants in Oceanside and in Merrick. ''We can dress 25-year-olds, and we can dress 75-year-olds. and we do phenomenally in between,'' Ms. Kombert-Grann said.

DEBRA CANAVAN CLASSICS -- 53 Main Street, Sayville, (631) 563-9385. This women's apparel boutique is a bit pricey but has exquisite clothing, especially gowns. This is a place to get a dress for a fancy corporate holiday party, benefit ball or wedding.

VICTOR TALBOTS -- 47 Glen Cove Road, Greenvale, (516) 625-1787. Victor Scognamiglio's men's boutique is for the guy who wants to look like Clark Gable. It offers high-end formal evening attire, dinner and smoking jackets, bowties, dinner ties, cummerbund sets and custom shirts, suits, ties and shoes by luxury brands like Brioni, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Kiton and Oxxford. Victor Talbots also offers rental tuxedos, dinner jackets, suits, top hats and canes.

THE OPEN DOOR TO STITCHERY -- 87A Middle Neck Road, Great Neck, (516) 487-9442. There is something new here whether hobbyists are just learning to knit or crochet or have been turning out afghans for decades. Needlepoint experts also love to shop here. The store sells yarns, patterns, how-to books, crochet hooks, knitting needles and yarn bags and also offers lessons.

S. T. PRESTON & SONS -- 102 Main Street, Greenport, (631) 477-1990. A waterfront ship chandlery and more that recalls the village's past as a whaling port. Exotic seashells, filleting knives as sharp as razors, nautical clothes and navigation charts, some on place mats, are for sale along with serious nautical hardware intended for skippers, who can dock nearby.

BUDDY'S BIKES ETC. -- 907 West Beech Street, Long Beach, (516) 431-0804. It's no easy feat to fit down the aisle of Buddy's, where bicycles of all sizes and colors are lined up, for sale or rental. Buddy's meets family cycling needs from a child's first bike with training wheels to cruisers with hand brakes and oversize comfortable seats that are perfect for riding on the boardwalk.

DOLPHIN BOOK SHOP -- 941 Port Washington Boulevard, Port Washington, (516) 767-2650. A well-stocked, independent bookstore featuring old classics and trendy new books alongside best sellers and traditional good reads. You can trust the knowledgeable staff to recommend books for your grandfather or your best friend who just had a baby, and children and teenagers have as much to choose from as adults.

FETCH -- 301 East Main Street, Port Jefferson, (631) 331-0965. A pet boutique that is known for selling baked dog treats that mimic the cookies bought at a real bakery (not baked on site). They also sell dog clothing, ''organic'' and ''holistic'' food, beds, collars, toys and more, including goodies for cats.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WANTS, NOT NEEDS -- Mary Jane Denzer, with Bodhi at her feet, outfits women from head to toe in her luxury shop in White Plains. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
POSH STOPS -- Marshs (Huntington, L.I.), Richards (Greenwich, Conn.), Mary Jane Denzer, Garmany (Red Bank, N.J.) and CoCo Pari (Red Bank). (Photographs by [from left] Vic DeLucia, Janet Durrans [2] and Laura Pedrick [2] for The New York Times)(pg. 2)
MERGER -- Above, Ron Marsh, left, grandson of the founder of Marshs in Huntington, N.Y., with Chris Mitchell, whose family purchased it last year. Left, Susan Harry in Garmany in Red Bank, N.J. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SUBURBS (76%); MEN (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (60%); BASEBALL (57%) Apparel; Suburbs

COMPANY: ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%) Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



450 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Remix; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: What's a BRIC? 

BYLINE: By Danielle Pergament

 BODY:
You may not have heard of BRIC -- the acronym for Brazil, Russia, India, China -- but you've heard its buzz. These emerging powers are where investors are sending capital, architects are rejiggering skylines and cognoscenti are mining for cultural talent. BRIC, in other words, is changing where, and how, we travel. 
 Just follow the money: In the past two years, according to the 2006 Merrill Lynch Asia-Pacific Wealth Report, India's affluent class jumped almost 20 percent; savings in China nearly doubled; and Brazil and Russia are close behind. ''India has Bollywood, Brazil has the rain forest, there's the 2008 Olympics in China, and you can't walk past a yacht in Cannes without hearing a Russian accent,'' says Martin Raymond, the founder of Future Laboratory, a London company that forecasts trends. So as economies boom and middle classes swell, everyone gets wanderlust and the world shrinks a little bit more. ''There's a cultural exchange in place,'' Raymond says.
 Meanwhile, BRIC nations are building like ancient pharoahs. China keeps throwing up major works of architecture -- the new Suzhou Museum by I.M. Pei, Rem Koolhaas's CCTV tower in Beijing -- and hotel companies are jockeying for prime spots, from the Tibet border (where there's the new Banyan Tree Ringha) to the island of Hainan (where Ritz-Carlton is developing a resort). Luxury-goods houses are also rushing in: Dolce & Gabbana just opened a Shanghai flagship on the Bund. Russia has landed Sir Norman Foster to build the eco-correct Moscow City Tower, while the Grand Hotel and Spa Rodina (www.grandhotelrodina.com) just opened near Vladimir Putin's summer house on the Black Sea. In Rio de Janeiro, Rogerio Fasano hired Philippe Starck to design his Ipanema hotel (www.fasano.com.br), and in the state of Minas Gerais, the new arts center Inhotim (www.caci.org.br) brings works by Paul McCarthy and Olafur Eliasson to the heart of Brazil. India is bolstering its travel infrastructure, with four major airports and new hotels in the works, including lodges in India's game parks, a joint venture between the safari company CC Africa and Taj hotels (www.indiasafaris.com).
 Americans' hunger for BRIC travel has so increased that hotel rooms -- despite the apparent glut -- are in short supply, says Nathaniel Waring, the president of the travel outfitter Cox & Kings. Airplane seats, however, are opening up. ''Now there are direct flights from Chicago to Delhi, from New York to Bombay, from Miami to Manaus,'' Waring adds. ''It's staggering. And it won't be changing any time soon.'' DANIELLE PERGAMENT


GRAPHIC: Photos: Building blocks From far left: a rendering of Sir Norman Foster's Moscow City Tower
a CC Africa game lodge in India
the Grand Hotel Rodina on the Black Sea in Sochi, Russia
I.M. Pei's new Suzhou Museum.Brazilian model Inside the Philippe Starck-designed Hotel Fasano, which is to open on Ipanema Beach in Rio de Janeiro early next year. (Photograph By Foster + Partners
Cc Africa
Grand Hotel Rodina
Kerun Ip
 Fasano Hotel E Restaurante/The Leading Hotels Of The World) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIC COUNTRIES (92%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); TRENDS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); OLYMPICS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); AIRPORTS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: SAFARI CO LTD (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS112990 ALL OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTION (62%); SIC0291 GENERAL FARMS, PRIMARILY LIVESTOCK & ANIMAL SPECIALTIES (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Danielle Pergament

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (90%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Brazil; Russia; India; China

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



451 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 130

LENGTH: 3670 words

HEADLINE: Under the Tunisian Sun

BYLINE: By Sean Rocha

 BODY:
The crowd that gathers at El Firma, a 1920's colonial farmhouse-turned-restaurant on a desolate stretch of land outside Tunis, is as sexy and stylish as any in the world. The work of two young Tunisian brothers, Sadri and Iyed Tej -- one trained in Nice, the other at the legendary Institut Paul Bocuse in Lyon -- and a Tunisian designer, Mona Mechri, El Firma is an incredibly beautiful place: antique cushioned chairs reupholstered in fuschia and furs play off the rough, warm texture of old stone walls; in the long, narrow dining room, a large plate-glass window frames a tumult of vegetation outside, lighted from below. On a soft night recently, when the seating moved out into the large, open courtyard, I found young Tunisian fashionistas just home from Paris or Rome sitting on sofas backed by elaborate antique headboards while their mothers (even more stylish) remained at tables deep in conversation in a jumble of languages. Above it all, a canopy of sheer curtains billowed sensuously in the soothing breezes of the North African night. 
I had been searching for this Tunisia. In the United States and Europe, the country may be known primarily as a cheap beach destination for package tourists, but in Egypt, where I lived for a few years in the mid-1990's, I often heard how much more modern and advanced Tunisia was than the rest of the Arab world. Tunisians themselves repeat this claim like a catechism -- some add ''civilized'' and then smile at their own impudence; others, revealing their prejudices, say ''European'' -- and among my Egyptian friends we debated whether this could really be true, imagining a kind of paradise with all the charms of the Arab world and none of its difficulties. Over the past few years I also found another reason for wanting to go to Tunisia: the Arab world's capacity for modernizing has become one of the central questions in political life both at home and abroad, and I wondered if Tunisia, as the Arab country that most wants to be seen as modern, might hold some answers.
 The capital, Tunis, is closer to Italy than to the deserts of southern Tunisia, as many of its residents were all too happy to remind me. If the country has a claim to being modern and advanced, I reasoned, it was to be found there. 
 Tunis lies slightly inland, on a lake, and is a bigger place in summer, when warm weather brings places like the Calypso disco in Hammamet and La Dourade restaurant in the Grotto on Cap Bon -- both within an hour and a half's drive from Tunis -- into the city's social orbit. In winter, it shrinks back to a city of less than one million that feels Arab at its western edge and more European the farther east you go. Its heart, traditionally, is in western Tunis at the Zitouna Mosque, in the middle of the medina, the old walled town of small alleys, covered souk and the elaborately studded doors for which Tunisia is famous. The narrow shops spill their wares -- everything from the maroon felt hat called a chechia to gaudy brass plates etched with camels -- out into the streets, like peacocks flaunting their colors. Still, it can be difficult to get much sense of the place during the day, when in high season tour buses disgorge their contents for the one-hour medina component of a day trip from the beaches, making the ancient byways seem as much Serbian or Polish as Arab. But staying at the exquisite Dar el Medina, a new boutique hotel in a 19th-century maison Arabe, I would walk back each night through the pitch-black old town, its cascading alleyways of slippery stone littered with rubbish from the day's commerce. Feral cats poked their noses in the piles hoping for treats. Shafts of light fell from high windows, and the silence amplified the sounds of distant shops being shuttered, filling the darkness with a timelessness impossible to find by day.
 The meandering, organic streets of the medina give way in the east to the rational grid of the French-built Ville Nouvelle, which feels less like a little Paris and more like a provincial town in the Midi with now-faded pretensions of grandeur. Its streets are full of symbolism: it is still Avenue de France that joins the old city and the new; Place de l'Independance divides the two seats of French colonial power, the cathedral and the old French Residence; Avenue de Paris turns into Avenue de la Liberte at Place de la Republique. 
 I had pictured the Ville Nouvelle as frozen in an early-20th-century French administrator's vision of modernism, thick with small bistros left over from the days of the protectorate, but only Chez Slah came close: a spare, white-walled restaurant from the 1960's on an unpromising block that serves spectacularly fresh fish, the only crispy frites I found in the country, and mousse au chocolat with a large communal bowl of creme fraiche. Desolate at 8:30 on a Friday night, it was packed by 10, and everyone was greeted as an old friend. Families arrived, the waiters in their white tuxedo jackets teasing the little girls, and I knew that when these girls grow up and move away to France or wherever origins and opportunities took them, they will look back on this place as representative of a golden, carefree age. The waiters -- indeed, the whole idea that there could be a place where waiters were friends and adopted fathers -- will loom large in memories that by middle age will seem too idyllic to have been real.
 Many of the country's rich have decamped from Tunis, migrating to the northeastern suburbs: Carthage, Sidi Bou Said, La Marsa, Gammarth, each with a small town center and many of the country's best restaurants and nightspots. Most of these are new developments of beautiful white villas -- much in Tunis is white, a custom dating back to the medina -- done in an unadorned style reminiscent of Le Corbusier and early Modernism but with a few simple arches in reference to local architectural traditions. The jewel of the area is the village of Sidi Bou Said, perched on a cliff overlooking the Gulf of Tunis; here, the white walls are flecked with aquamarine windows and flowering vines in purple or red, giving it the feel of Mykonos or Cordoba -- the last owing to the many Andalusian Arabs who fled here from Spain after the 15th-century Christian reconquest. Like the medina, Sidi Bou Said is busy with tourists from late morning to early evening, and then, suddenly, as the sun fades away, it becomes a retreat for young Tunisian couples who gather at the terraced Cafe Sidi Chebaane to watch the hills of Cap Bon, just visible across the water, recede into the night.
 Tunisia has always been a schizophrenic place. The seat of several great empires and speckled with ancient ruins from Carthage and Rome, it has long marketed itself as a cultureless, ahistorical beach destination. It was a stalwart Western ally during the Cold War and now, again, in the war on terror, but it has also played host to everyone from the F.L.N., the radical Algerian independence group, to Yasser Arafat's P.L.O. when it was still in its rogue phase. And today, despite its pride in being advanced, Tunisia has had only two presidents in its 50 years of independence; the first had himself named ''president for life,'' and the current president is known for earning 99 percent of the votes at election time. Tunisia may have a minimal military presence compared with other Arab countries -- it is the country's eternal good fortune that the national army was too small at independence to even contemplate seizing power -- but there is a large police presence, press freedom on a par with Libya and, by reputation, a high degree of intelligence surveillance. As a result, I found a folkloric quality to the way Tunisians recounted their modern political history to me, as if I was hearing a mythological, agreed-upon version shorn of details that might create awkward moments for the teller or invite recrimination. So, when I asked about the embarrassing number of hagiographic portraits around town of the current president, Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, I was told that the fault lies with Habib Bourguiba, the first president (now dead, and therefore in no position to retaliate), as if Ben Ali, who has been president for close to 20 years, were new to power and still struggling with his inheritance. 
 There are other kinds of freedom besides political -- economic, social -- and here Tunisia has succeeded where much of the Arab world has failed; indeed, except for the absence of real democracy, Tunisia looks a lot like the stable, secular, free-enterprise Middle East that the Bush administration says it hopes to create. The country has a burgeoning middle class, as I discovered on a visit to the French supermarket and department store Carrefour, which Tunisians talk about as if it were the name of a small town and not merely the anchor tenant of a shopping center about 15 minutes outside Tunis. I went to try to find a favorite local wine -- the shockingly good 2000 Chateau Saint Augustin L'Imperial Magnus -- and wandered into a world of people pushing giant carts piled high with every conceivable good down vast, American-suburb-size aisles toward one of 53 mobbed checkout lines. It was madness, maybe, but a healthy sign all the same.
 Socially, Bourguiba was a secular modernizer as radical as Ataturk (famously, Bourguiba once tried to end the practice of fasting during Ramadan), who soon after independence pushed through a Code of Personal Status that, among other things, gave extensive rights to women. Bourguiba was ahead of his time but he was also of his time: in the 1950's, secular nationalism was practically the official ideology in much of the Arab world. It was a period of optimism, of the imminent reclaiming of greatness of which every Arab is so conscious. In retrospect, it is unfortunate that the West (and in particular the United States) seems not to have recognized its long-term interest in seeing this project of Arab modernization succeed; instead, Western leaders were largely hostile, fearing that success might expand Soviet influence or threaten Israel. Tunisia was a notable exception, because it backed Western foreign policy in the region. The 1967 Arab-Israeli war changed the situation significantly: the fighting was so brief and the failure for the Arabs so absolute that for many in the region it discredited the whole venture of Western-style modernization. As a result, some Arab states -- still run by the heirs to the modernizers, but now without ideas to offer -- were left to spend the next 40 years attempting to beat back modernization's shadow image: the resurgent desire to return to tradition, to the past, to Islam. 
 In Tunisia, the Code of Personal Status is still in force, but tradition has visibly reasserted itself in recent years, encroaching on the spirit of the law. (Elsewhere, Arab women have always found ways to exert more power and influence than is written into the letter of the law.) As a result, outside of the rich enclaves northeast of Tunis and the beaches of Hammamet in summer, the gap between Tunisia and other North African countries has visibly narrowed, and the people walking the streets of Tunis, including the women, look much as they do in cities like Cairo or Casablanca. 
 I met Anouar Brahem in Carthage, the center of an empire savaged by the ancient Romans. I wanted to talk with him about cosmopolitan Tunis because I had always thought of his music as something like the unofficial soundtrack to Italo Calvino's novel ''Invisible Cities'': evocative of distant places without ever quite being one place in particular. As it happens, his music is Tunisian, but it incorporates everything from Andalusian-Arab maluf to avant-garde jazz, so there is nothing else in the country that sounds quite like it. 
 Brahem suggested we meet at Villa Didon, a very hip hotel built among the ruins. At first, I took the setting as a polite way of reminding me that Tunisian identity has many layers and deep roots, and that it didn't become cosmopolitan with the arrival of the French. But later, after staying at Villa Didon, I realized Brahem's choice also said something about his music. With its Vitra furniture and sleek white rooms, Villa Didon is a hotel that its detractors say could be anywhere. But in the Arab world a hotel that feels like it really could be anywhere and is not just a pale imitation of someplace else -- where the design is so perfect that it could hold its own in Barcelona or Antwerp -- is a considerable achievement, and calls into question why this, too, can't be part of what people think of when they think of Tunisia. This is precisely what Brahem struggles with: his music is contemporary and cosmopolitan and as much Keith Jarrett as traditional maluf, but as Brahem puts it, ''When I went to Paris to play my music, nobody wanted to hear that. 'Ah, you are Tunisian? So play your traditional music, please.' But my only ambition was to play my music, you know. Because they had this idea that Tunisia is only traditional things. It's one image. They are not so interested in the things that are modern.''
 Brahem worked with the filmmaker Ferid Boughedir on ''Halfaouine,'' a coming-of-age story set where Brahem grew up, in the district north of the walled medina. The film was screened at Cannes in 1990 and quickly became the biggest success in the history of Tunisian cinema, reflecting what Boughedir calls the ''mass auteur'' tastes of Tunisian audiences, who turned out in droves for what, elsewhere, would be a small art-house film because they so rarely have a chance to see their daily lives represented on screen. The district of Halfaouine dates to at least the 13th-century Hafsid empire and is today a warren of small houses and winding alleys. It is regarded as a fairly traditional district, which makes it a powerful setting for a film Boughedir made as a defense of tolerance in the face of a growing Islamist threat. ''The fundamentalists are saying you should take the dogma'' -- of, say, a strict prohibition of alcohol -- ''and apply it to reality,'' Boughedir explains. ''But what I'm saying is, look, in our history it's the contrary. Our society is, in fact, deeply tolerant if the person shows he respects society. We made the pacte fondamentale between the religions before France came here. A lot of people think France came here and brought with her the ideas of equality and democracy, and it's not true.''
 Boughedir describes a scene from the film in which a shoemaker, a known drunkard, is about to play music for an audience at a wedding and salutes them with ''cough syrup'' that everyone knows is alcohol. ''This is not hypocrisy,'' Boughedir says. ''I would call it elegance.'' I had a cough-syrup moment myself at the Cafe de Paris in the Ville Nouvelle, one of the few establishments that sells beer. I took a table on the sidewalk by the trees that line Avenue Habib Bourguiba and ordered a Celtia, the local lager that comes in small green bottles with gold foil necks. The waiter shifted nervously. I had, inadvertently, acted without elegance: beers could be ordered only inside, behind the large windows that no more hide what is going on than did the shoemaker's cough-syrup bottle but that show even as you make a personal choice to transgress, you respect the society that wishes you wouldn't. This insistence on elegance lends a speak-easy secrecy to many of the best nightspots in Tunis, which is why they can be so difficult to find.
 The first thing I noticed was the giant plastic palm tree towering over the compound. An explosion of light burst from the trunk and then changed color as it cascaded down to the tips of the fronds. There's nothing especially secretive about an exploding palm tree, except that its location, on a small side street in a residential neighborhood outside Tunis, means I never would have stumbled upon it.
 I was at an entertainment complex called the Plaza Corniche, and the palm tree was the least of it. The garden and adjoining restaurants were filled to excess with relentlessly Americana kitsch of the pink flamingo variety: ''Chinese'' hanging lanterns, street signs, roadside diner bric-a-brac, neon beer ads. The underground disco, with its strip lights and suburban bachelor-pad seating, looked like a paean to the San Fernando Valley, like a ''Boogie Nights'' film set. This was not an ironic take on kitsch; it oozed sincerity. Perhaps as a result, the Plaza is immensely popular: jet-set Tunisian girls, rough-featured Libyan ministers, local playboys, Algerians on the make, offspring of the political aristocracy and alcohol-soaked European expats all gather in its cluttered confines. This mix is something rare -- in my experience, almost unprecedented -- in the Arab world, where religion gets all the attention but social class is just as much a determinant of identity. Rich Arabs tend to socialize in a world unto themselves; partly this is insecure snobbery, and partly it is that the reality of their lifestyles would horrify most of their poorer compatriots. But at the Plaza, everyone feels at home. 
 I found the gracefully aging, rheumy-eyed owner, Andre Backar, holding court at a dinner table, telling all who would listen about his successes. This was charm, not braggadocio. Backar's almost childlike need for affirmation was so transparent that his otherwise unbelievable life story, by the time it was finally told, came to seem inevitable. Orphaned as an infant by the premature death of his mother and sent away when his father remarried, Backar as a boy set off to Tunis to find his father -- which he did. Finding the man running a garage but unwilling to take him in, Backar spent his remaining pocket money to go to La Marsa, just outside Tunis and near the current-day Plaza. He was adopted as a kind of mascot by American servicemen stationed there (this was during World War II) who, when their base closed, encouraged him to move to the United States. 
 It took Backar an hour to tell the story to this point, full of practiced but extraneous detail. It was late; I was tired. Untold events took him to America, a stint as a shoe salesman at Saks and, eventually, the fortune and the United Nations Plaza residence that awaited him. Yet the story, even in its early chapters, transformed the bizarre atmosphere of the Plaza into something beautiful: the measure of one man's unrestrained gratitude for the country that took him in and saved him from penury. Perhaps it was the hour, or the mood cast by Backar's storytelling, or just my own desire to romanticize. But looking out at the plastic palm tree still bursting its colors into the Tunisian sky, I now saw more than just an exercise in monstrously bad taste. America, even at its corniest, is a symbol of all things modern. The Plaza symbolizes an idealized America of easy liberty, delightfully bad television shows and greasy onion rings, an America untied to the wars and injustices that have brought it so little credit in the region. It is the true America, many would say. In a region so often seen as hostile to such ideals, it might seem folly to open this shrine to the banal comforts of American life. But in Tunis the Plaza is adored. 
 Essentials Tunis
 BEFORE YOU GO Visas are not required for American citizens visiting Tunisia. Note that English is not widely spoken, so French or Arabic proficiency is helpful.
 HOTELS Dar el Medina Lovely 19th-century maison Arabe in the medina with great views of the old city from its roof. 
 64 rue Sidi Ben Arous, Tunis; 011-216-71-563-022; www.darelmedina.com; doubles from about $164. Dar Said Attractive boutique hotel with open-air cocktail lounge in the city's most stylish suburb. Rue Toumi, Sidi Bou Said; 011-216-71-729-666; www.darsaid.com.tn; doubles from $184. Villa Didon Sleek, modern hotel -- the choice for design lovers -- with a spa, amid the ruins of Carthage. Rue Mendes France, Carthage; 011-216-71-73-34-33; www.villadidon.com; doubles from $262.
 RESTAURANTS, cafes and bars Tunisia is not known for extraordinary food; the country's wine, however, can be very good and should not be missed. Au Bon Vieux Temps Perhaps the city's top table (a must-stop for international V.I.P.'s), with very good dishes. 56 rue Hedi Zarrouk, Sidi Bou Said; 011-216-71-744-788; entrees $26 to $38. Cafe des Nattes Attractive, historic literary and artistic cafe. Place Sidi Bou Said, Sidi Bou Said; no phone. Cafe Sidi Chabaane A favorite for tea or drinks with a glorious view of the sea from whitewashed terraces. Rue Sidi Chabaane, Sidi Bou Said; no phone. Chez Slah Old-school Tunisian restaurant with great food in the Nouvelle Ville. 14 bis rue Pierre de Coubertin, Tunis; 011-216-71-258-588; entrees $10 to $22. Dar el Jeld Legendary restaurant in a fantastically tiled house in the old city. 5-10 rue Dar el Jeld, Tunis; 011-216-71-560-916; entrees $10 to $14. El Firma One of the city's most attractive restaurants, with excellent fresh fish and meat dishes. 58 rue des Fruits, La Soukra; 011-216-71-863-089; entrees $11 to $21. Plaza Corniche Hugely popular nightspot decorated with Americana kitsch. 22 rue du Maroc, La Marsa; 011-216-71-743-577; www.plaza-corniche.net. 
 SHOPS Most of the trinkets for sale in the medina are mass-produced and hardly worth picking up, though it's worth wandering to soak up atmosphere and see if something catches your eye. Zina One of the few style-driven boutiques in the city with local contemporary design objets. 
 2 rue Habib Thameur, La Marsa; 011-216-22-251-701.
 SIGHTS ''The Rough Guide to Tunisia'' provides a good overview of the city's attractions (it is less reliable on subjects like restaurants). Be sure to see the eighth-century Zitouna Mosque in the old city, the ruins of Carthage (though little remains), the whitewashed wonderland of Sidi Bou Said and the Bardo Museum, which has a beautiful collection of mosaics housed in an old palace (Rue Mongi Slim, Bardo; 011-216-71-513-650).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Then And Now From Top: The Orderly Streets Of Tunis's Ville Nouvelle Are A Remnant Of French Colonial Rule
The Ruins At Carthage, Outside Tunis, Are A Major Tourist Attraction
In The Warm Months, Travelers And Locals Alike Frequent Beachside Areas Like Hammamet.132after Dark From Top: Social Boundaries Dissolve At The Popular Open-Air Entertainment Complex Plaza Corniche, Hidden In A Residential Neighborhood
The Restaurant El Firma Draws An Uber-Stylish Tunisian Crowd
Thronged With Tourists By Day, The Streets Of The Residential Suburb Sidi Bou Said Become An Oasis Of Calm At Night.Night Lights Americana Kitsch Inspires The Decor At The Plaza Corniche, Outside Tunis. Opposite: The Sidi Bou Said Marina.
 The Good Life Many Of Tunisia's Elite Live In Tunis Suburbs Like Sidi Bou Said, With Cafes, Opposite, And Views Of The Mediterranean, Above. (Photographs By Azim Haidaryan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); TOUR PACKAGES (65%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: sean rocha

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) TUNISIA (96%); EGYPT (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%) Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



452 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 142

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: Powder Trip

BYLINE: By Porter Fox

 BODY:
Aaron Brill watches calmly as the Silverton Mountain ski patrol sets a stick of dynamite on a nearby slope. A half-dozen snow-covered ridges ripple in either direction from our vantage, about 500 yards from the blast site and 12,000 feet above sea level. Just downslope stand five of Silverton's expert skiers, all anxious to drop into the yawning snowfield beneath them and all a bit unsure how best to brace for the impending explosion.
 Brill edges his snowboard into the hill and gestures for us to cover our ears. As the owner of America's first do-it-yourself backcountry ski resort with his wife, Jenny, he's accustomed to these nerve-rattling moments. The patrol prepares to detonate and clear a potential slide, and Brill offers this advice: ''It's going to be big.'' 
 And it is. Almost as loud as the explosion Silverton made in the ski world when it opened six years ago in southwestern Colorado. After a trip in 1992 to New Zealand's public ski fields, where clubs throw a rope tow and a hut on the side of a mountain and call it a resort, the Brills decided to defy the American winter resort trend of high-speed lifts and billion-dollar, Disneyesque theme villages, and to create Silverton. ''I was just impressed by the amount of rawness to the skiing,'' says the 35-year-old Aaron. The Brills' concept is simple: pure skiing for pure skiers. The idea behind it is that cheaper prices and a spectacular spray of ridges, couloirs and jagged peaks are more important to serious riders than slope-side massages and gourmet dining.
 Silverton's ungroomed atmosphere has its own exclusivity; ruggedness keeps the average ski bunny sticking to kiddie slopes elsewhere. There are no marked trails -- the only lift is a 1973 Yan double chair that the couple bought from Mammoth Mountain in California for $25,000 -- and the snowpack in the temperate San Juan Mountains makes the area highly susceptible to avalanches. Most of the season, every group has to ski with a guide, carry avalanche gear and sign a waiver that says they are skiing at their own risk. Some of the outlying trails require up to 40 minutes of hiking. Even the apres ski is bare-bones. The base lodge is a simple Quonset hut equipped with a few sofas, school-bus seats and a keg. The town, six miles down a dirt road, maintains a laid-back vibe as well, with kitschy souvenir shops, Old West saloons and locals moseying along Greene Street.
 Despite the extreme terrain and the lack of amenities, Silverton has been sold out nearly every weekend since it opened. This season, which started in late September with 36 inches of new snow, the Bureau of Land Management granted the Brills a new permit to allow up to 475 skiers a day, from the previous limit of 80 people. What makes this all the more remarkable is that the ski industry has been stagnant since the late 70's; in the last 23 years, 35 percent of all United States ski resorts have closed because of increasingly expensive overhead, like fuel and insurance costs, as well as unpredictable snowfall and not enough new skiers. Large resort destinations like Mammoth Mountain and Aspen have all but given up on depending solely on profits from ticket sales and have shifted their attention to real estate expansion to lure renters and second-home buyers. 
 Mammoth's billion-dollar development plan includes more than a dozen new restaurants and a spa featuring yoga camps and motivational speakers like the wellness guru Dr. Andrew Weil. Another developer recently announced plans to demolish condominiums at the bankrupt Elk Meadows ski resort in southern Utah and build a $3.5 billion members-only resort, where in warmer weather you can tee off at the 
 Jack Nicklaus-designed golf course. At Wolf Creek in Colorado, a 10,000-person city is being planned adjacent to the mountain's base, even though the resort opposes it. (Last May, United States Senator Ken Salazar pushed for a congressional investigation of Wolf Creek village's development company, headed by Billy Joe ''Red'' McCombs, on allegations of collusion with the United States Forest Service.) 
 The result is that formerly hardscrabble ski hamlets like Telluride and Sun Valley, which were popular in the 60's, have become glitzy shells of what they once were. Shimmering minks and 50,000-square-foot chalets have invaded the hills where mountain freaks and antelopes once roamed.
 For passionate skiers like Bruce McQuistan, Silverton, with its anti-development model, is a utopia. McQuistan is the consummate ski bum, having spent most of his life chasing snow around the world. When Silverton opened, the Seattle-based computer programmer scooped up one of Silverton's lifetime ski passes, as well as a nearby bungalow. McQuistan knew the skiing would be exhilarating -- Silverton receives more than 400 inches of annual snowfall -- but he was also keen on being a part of a new archetype in American skiing. ''There's too much real estate development, too much focus on the wrong stuff in the West -- catering to ease instead of challenge,'' he says. ''I see resorts spending a lot of money on fancy lodges when a shelter would be enough. And we're not froufrou types.''
 As we unload at the icy, 12,300-foot summit, he points out some ''natural amenities'' that, in his opinion, elevate Silverton high above its posh brethren. Dozens of snow-filled gullies plummet 3,000 vertical feet from a granite ridge to the valley floor. More gradual snowfields begin midmountain and spill into steep glades near the bottom. A ring of snaggletoothed peaks extends beyond the resort. The terrain is 
 awe-inspiring -- comparable to only a few of the best resorts in North America, like Whistler and Squaw Valley -- and certainly the most challenging in Colorado. As we strap skis to our packs to hike the last 800 of Storm Peak's 13,487 feet (the highest inbounds resort summit in America), McQuistan says he hopes the new permit won't change things much.
 You'd be hard-pressed to find much happening in town the next morning, an hour before the lift opens. As the sun climbs over the San Juan Mountains, a teenager races his pickup down the main drag. 
 The Brown Bear Cafe offers a $4.99 breakfast, which only the locals can finish. Fine dining consists of prime rib at the Pickle Barrel restaurant, and the fanciest accommodation is the Grand Imperial Hotel, a Victorian pile. At the Avalanche cafe, there are vague signs of gentrification. A fence made of discarded skis leads to the front door of the two-room coffee shop, where a sign instructs customers to keep dogs tied on the porch. Inside, the magazine stand is stacked with back issues of Harper's and the fiction quarterly Zoetrope: All-Story. Jay Canode, the 34-year-old owner, says that the challenging nature of Silverton skiing acts as a natural deterrent to expansion. But, he adds, growth will eventually come. ''The idea is not to sell your soul but set up situations,'' he says. ''It's a matter of zoning and whatnot, thinking ahead. Do you want to be looking at a big house on the hill or not?''
 The next day, back on the mountain, McQuistan skates across the summit ridge as we traverse for the final run of my trip. Aaron leads on his snowboard, a grease-stained North Face down jacket strapped to his pack. He finds a powder stash on a steep, swooping snowfield, rides ahead and waits for us on a cat track 2,000 vertical feet below.
 It hasn't snowed in two weeks, but the slope is blanketed in boot-top powder. There isn't a person in sight, just me and the hiss of snow under my skis. That night, over a bottle of pinot noir at Pasta La Vista, McQuistan explains that this unsullied scene is hard to find in America anymore. And one that inspires him to help keep one of the West's last authentic ski resorts exactly as it is.
 ''We like to think of it as being done for the love,'' he says. ''The love of a place, the love of an economic idea and the love of skiing.'' 
 .Essentials Silverton, Colo.
 GETTING THERE Several major airlines, including Continental and American, serve the two nearest airports, Durango-La Plata and Montrose. From there, it's about 60 miles of white-knuckle driving to the town. 
 HOTELS Grand Imperial Hotel A local institution since 1882, with 40 Victorian-style rooms and an outdoor 
 hot tub. 1219 Greene Street; (800)341-3340; www.grandimperialhotel.com; doubles from $60. Inn of the Rockies at the Historic Alma House Turn-of-the-century inn with an on-site spa. 220 East 10th Street; (800)267-5336; www.innoftherockies.com; doubles from $85.
 RESTAURANTS Brown Bear Cafe The place for cheap, hearty fare (biscuits and gravy, steak dinners). 1129 Greene Street; (970)387-5630; entrees $5 to $16. Pasta La Vista Basic Italian dishes like spaghetti and meatballs and pizza. 1225 Blair Street; (970)387-5352; entrees $10 to $17. Pickle Barrel Family-style restaurant set in a historic stone building. 1304 Greene Street; (970)387-5713; entrees $8 to $25.
 SKIING The mountain is open Thursday to Sunday, November to April, from 8:45 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Advance reservations are needed only for guided skiing ($99 to $129 a day guided; $49 a day unguided). (970)387-5706; www.silvertonmountain.com.
 Plus More Grass-Roots Skiing 
 Cannon Mountain Bode Miller learned to ski at this classic New England spot. Franconia, N.H.; (603)823-8800; www.cannonmt.com; open November to April, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.; $54 a day. Lovetts Inn, located nearby, is a historic 1784 bed-and-breakfast that has played host to the Kennedys and Bette Davis (603-823-7761; doubles from $125). Mount Baker Has an average snowfall of 647 inches. Bellingham, Wash.; (360)734-6771; www.mtbaker.us; open November to April, 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.; $32 to $40 a day. The Inn at Mount Baker is a bed-and-breakfast with great views of the mountain (360-599-1776; doubles from $130). Red Mountain The best glade and tree skiing in the Pacific Northwest. Rossland, British Columbia, Canada; (877)969-7669; www.redresort.com; open December to April, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; $52 a day. The Ram's Head Inn is a European-style lodge and a four minute walk from the mountain (877-267-4323; www.ramshead.bc.ca; doubles from $135). Turner Mountain Small volunteer-operated resort. Libby, Mont.; (406)293-4317; www.skiturner.com; open December to April, 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.; $26 a day. The Kootenai River Guest Cabins and Flyshop has full-service units with shuttle service to the mountain (406-293-7578; doubles from $75).


CORRECTION-DATE: November 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A photograph with an article last Sunday in the T: Travel magazine, about skiing in Silverton, Colo., was published in error. It was an aerial view of Ouray, Colo., not Silverton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For Passionate Skiers, Silverton, With Its Anti-Development Model, Is A Utopia.Cold Front Above: The Grand Imperial Hotel, A Relic Of The Town's Victorian Days, Is A Gathering Place For Locals And Skiers. Opposite, Clockwise From Top: Some Silverton Enthusiasts Have Bought Local Victorian Houses Like These Two
Skiers Travel In Groups To Outlying Trails
An Aerial View Of The Former Silver-Mining Town. Previous Spread, Left: The Town Offers Little In The Way Of Aspen-Style Amenities. Right: On The Backcountry Hills, Skiers Must Carry Avalanche Gear And Sign A Waiver Saying They Are Skiing At Their Own Risk.00forecast Calls For Snow Silverton Receives More Than 400 Inches Of Snow A Year. Opposite, From Left: The Silverton Founders Aaron And Jenny Brill (Seated Third And Fourth From Left) With Other Skiers At The Mountain-Base Lodge
 A Former Town Resident Hangs Out At The Grand Imperial Hotel (Photographs by Stefan Ruiz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); AVALANCHES (89%); HIKING (78%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (63%) Skiing; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO AVALANCHE (59%)

PERSON: Porter Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) silverton (colo); Colorado

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



453 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Talk; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Liberal Arts

BYLINE: By Steven Stern

 BODY:
William Pym is a British expat with an art degree from Harvard. Zoe Strauss is a self-taught photographer with a working-class background. Each is something of a local celebrity on the Philadelphia art scene, and their stories tell much about the way this scene works.
 Pym moved to the city after a disillusioning stint trying to make it as an artist in New York. In search of cheap space and a less frantic environment, he found both here. He also found a day job at the well-respected Fleisher-Ollman Gallery -- painting the walls. In six months he was curating shows. Today he's the director of the gallery.
 Born in Philadelphia, Strauss picked up a camera when she was 30 and started taking pictures of life in the city's marginal neighborhoods. She displayed them on concrete pillars under Interstate 95 and sold photocopied prints for $5 each. Last year she received a $50,000 Pew Fellowship and was included in the Whitney Biennial. She's still selling her prints for $5. 
 In this city, the art world doesn't dance to the beat of a hyped-up market. Unlike New York and Los Angeles, where there are waiting lists for paintings with six-figure price tags and dealers pick and choose whom they'll deign to sell to, the art scene is more accessible, and certainly more fun. While the city's commercial gallery sector is growing in size and sophistication, it still doesn't dominate. Larry Gagosian won't be moving in anytime soon. You're just as likely to see the work of a local artist in a grass-roots collective as in a clothing boutique, a nonprofit space or a historic 18th-century house. And in those spaces, you're likely to see every major player, especially on First Fridays, when galleries stay open late, turning the whole city into an art-fueled cocktail party. Despite the homegrown atmosphere, the caliber of work is impressive. And competition is not really a factor. ''You're allowed not to be interested in what someone does,'' Pym says. ''But no one really sees the point of actively stomping on it and saying, 'This is rubbish.''' 
 ''I couldn't have had the same career I've had if I went to New York,'' says the artist Virgil Marti, who is represented by Elizabeth Dee gallery in New York and has lived in Philadelphia since the late 1980's. Marti's objects and installations -- which wryly mix 70's kitsch with historical interior design -- have been collected by the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London and the director Gus Van Sant. (''Virgil is probably our biggest international art export,'' says Alex Baker, a curator at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.) Marti originally came to town to get an M.F.A. at Tyler School of Art, and he says that when he graduated, ''there was a lot of stigma about staying in Philadelphia.''
 For all its second-tier status, Philadelphia has had its share of art-world luminaries, beginning with the Revolutionary-era polymath Charles Willson Peale. Major institutions like the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Rodin Museum and the eclectic Barnes Foundation, as well as the city's art schools -- Tyler, Moore College of Art and Design, the University of the Arts and the venerable Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (whose alumni include Thomas Eakins and David Lynch) -- have nurtured important talent. Carlos Basauldo, a curator from the experimental Wexner Art Center in Ohio, recently signed on as a curator for the contemporary art collection at the Philadelphia Art Museum; the museum is expanding its space, opening a new wing next summer.
 For Marti, who received a Pew Fellowship in 1995 (the foundation issues up to 12 grants in the creative arts to Philadelphia-area residents each year), sticking around has clearly worked out well. His studio, on a cobblestone alley in the gentrified Old City neighborhood, is filled with plaster bones and antlers cast from resin, which he and his assistants are busy assembling into chandeliers and decorative moldings. Recently, a sort of mini-retrospective of Marti's work was shown at Philadelphia University's Design Center, a mod 1950's ranch-style house that once belonged to William Paley's mother. It was the perfect setting for his witty riffs on the domestic: the mirrored wall sconces and psychedelic black velvet wallpaper seemed to fit right in.
 One of Marti's assistants, the 26-year-old Alex Da Corte, is poised to be another Philadelphia success story. He creates whimsical quasi-autobiographical pieces featuring plush snakes, floral wallpaper and toy soldiers. He's currently working on a collaborative project with his grandmother: a patchwork quilt. ''It's going to light up,'' he says.
 If electric quilts and flocked wallpaper are common themes in current Philadelphia artwork, they might have something to do with the Fabric Workshop and Museum, where Marti and Da Corte have served apprenticeships. It was founded in 1977 to promote textile art, and the program has brought to town international stars like Jorge Pardo, Marina Abramovic and Louise Bourgeois. Artists have filled rooms with horsehair (as Ann Hamilton did), and created a carpet of silicone rubber entrails (Mona Hatoum's 1995 project). There's nothing behind the scenes at the workshop; visitors get to wander among the cutting tables and sewing machines.
 A gallery, studio space and all-purpose hangout, Space 1026 has a similar open-door policy. Founded in 1997 by four refugees from Providence and the Rhode Island School of Design circle, Space 1026 calls itself ''a creative community -- not an institution.'' Twenty-eight artists work in a warren of cubiclelike studios in an industrial loft building on the southern edge of Chinatown. Their rent pays for the gallery, which with its soaring ceilings and pressed-tin walls makes for an unusual art space.
 ''We didn't know we were filling a void,'' says one of its co-founders, Andrew Jeffrey Wright, who has shown his neo-folk drawings in San Francisco and Los Angeles alongside the cult art star Barry McGee. 
 Yet the group quickly attracted attention, if only for its openings: in the early years, 1026 was known for the wildest parties in town. These days, things are a little quieter and more businesslike. (For one thing, the skateboard ramp in the gallery has been removed.) Crammed with screen presses and digital-music studios, the space serves as a hub of activity for artists making their names around town and beyond. It houses a T-shirt company, a record label and a publishing venture. One of its members, Adam Wallacavage, known for photographs of skateboarders, has recently started producing gloriously weird octopus-tentacled chandeliers, which were shown at the Jonathan LeVine Gallery in New York last summer.
 Meanwhile, the city's blue-chip galleries are tapping into some of the local talent. The eminent Locks Gallery, in a stately manse on Washington Square, exhibits museum-quality works by Willem de Kooning and Frank Stella, but it is also committed to lesser-known Philadelphia artists, like the photographer Eileen Neff, the genre-hopping appropriationist Stuart Netsky and the Op Art painter Edna Andrade, who is still working at age 89. Fleisher-Ollman -- another longtime presence, established in 1952 -- has reinvented itself under the guidance of Pym. Once a pioneer in outsider art, it has turned its attention toward younger artists who are working in the Henry Darger-inspired naif style that is now popular. The gallery represents Anthony Campuzano, who makes brightly colored text paintings, and Tristin Lowe, a creator of darkly childlike assemblages.
 For fresh-out-of-grad-school talent, there are small but slick new spaces like Basekamp. Located above the trendy Japanese restaurant Morimoto in Center City, the gallery regularly invites art collectives from around the world to collaborate on large-scale projects. At her eponymous gallery, Bridgette Mayer has cultivated a younger clientele for her abstract works. The program at Gallery Joe is made up mostly of drawings, with entry-level prices. And treading the line between art and commerce, the Philadelphia-based company Cerealarts sells multiples out of a shop in the Old City. There you can pick up Yayoi Kusama pillows and Marcel Dzama saltshakers.
 Yet selling contemporary art to the local population remains an uphill battle, which is a good thing for the out-of-town collector. There's more inventory than in a market like New York. Those with the money to collect here often gravitate toward traditional landscapes and portraits; those with a taste for the contemporary usually can't afford to buy. ''The thing we lack is the hipster with disposable income,'' Baker says.
 But that hasn't deterred six young artists from Cincinnati, who moved east in 2004 to start Black Floor Gallery. The gallery, which was recently overtaken by Luren Jenison's colorful yurt, shares Space 1026's mantle of cool. ''I wasn't interested in moving to a city that didn't need more energy,'' Annette Monnier, of Black Floor, says. ''New York didn't need me.''
 Of course, New York doesn't need anyone. That's the point, isn't it? For artists besotted with fame and glitz, making a mark in the inhospitable art capital will always be a goal. Philadelphia is not the new Chelsea -- or the new Williamsburg or the new Lower East Side for that matter. And it probably doesn't want to be. The city provides a glimpse of what Baker calls ''a community of generosity.'' This generosity affects the work. Pym says he's seeing ''more smart, globally aware, unprovincial work each year'' -- and it can easily rub off on the viewer. For artist and visitor alike, Philadelphia offers a respite from overheated scenes, unwelcoming galleries and the economy of the latest thing. 
 Essentials Philadelphia
 Hotels
 Art and design enthusiasts should consider the Loews Hotel (www.loewshotels.com) in the former Pennsylvania Savings Fund Society building, erected in 1932, the nation's first architectural example of International style. Other luxury properties include the Ritz-Carlton (www.ritzcarlton.com), housed in another former bank; the Four Seasons Hotel (www.fourseasons.com); the Park Hyatt Philadelphia at the Bellevue (www.parkhyatt.com); and the cozier Rittenhouse hotel (www.rittenhousehotel.com). 
 Galleries and Museums Gallery hours can be erratic, so call ahead. Basekamp 723 Chestnut Street; (215)545-7562. Black Floor Gallery 319A North 11th Street; (267)679-4587. Bridgette Mayer Gallery 709 Walnut Street; (215)413-8893. The Design Center at Philadelphia University 4200 Henry Avenue; (215)951-2863. The Fabric Workshop and Museum 1315 Cherry Street; (215)568-1111; www.fabricworkshop.org. Fleisher-Ollman 1616 Walnut Street; (215)545-7562. Gallery Joe 302 Arch Street; (215)592-7752. Locks Gallery Washington Square South; (215)629-1000. Space 1026 1026 Arch Street; (215)574-7630.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hot Philly: Alex Da Corte with one of his works
wallpaper by Jenny Holzer lines the ladies' room at the Fabric Workshop and Museum.
Medium cool From left: Space 1026 has a dorm-room atmosphere
a Virgil Marti installation in his studio
 a Jorge Pardo-designed room at the Fabric Worskhop. (Photographs By Kevin Cooley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ART DEALERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITIES (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Art; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%) Steven Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



454 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Talk; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Boomtown, Vietnam

BYLINE: By Sheridan Prasso

 BODY:
It's lunchtime on Saturday at the open-air restaurant Cay Bang along Mui Ne beach in southern Vietnam, and the place is packed. Everywhere patrons are pointing and shouting out orders for a dozen lobsters here, a whole grilled fish there. At a table off to one side, the twisted tentacles of a two-foot squid dangle over the edges as they dry in the sun. Tanks teem with grouper and rockfish, along with mollusks in varying hues, coral crabs and mud-colored slipper lobsters and warm-water tiger ones.
The men, wearing heavy gold chains and jockeying for the catch of the day, are there to show off, along with their families, at the best seafood restaurant on the shore. With their black Mercedes-Benzes parked out front baking in the sun, they want service fast and the best of everything, mounds of it. They are Vietnam's nouveaux riches, creating a cacophony of cracking shells and laughter as they dip their meat into a mixture of lime juice, salt and pepper. By Western standards, this may seem like a cheap feast -- $80 for a half-dozen people -- but in Vietnam, the price equals a month and a half's pay for a minimum-wage factory worker. 
 And that's the point. In recent years Mui Ne, about three hours northeast of Ho Chi Minh City (which the Vietnamese still call Saigon), has become something like the Hamptons of Vietnam. It's a weekend getaway on the South China Sea where newly wealthy city folk, having made their money off Vietnam's recent economic boom, go to enjoy the sea breezes and, just as important, demonstrate their rank in the social hierarchy. The Friday-afternoon convoys of luxury cars and air-conditioned buses on Highway 1 barely slow down as they whoosh past wandering livestock, bicyclists and scrambling pedestrians.
 In Mui Ne, whole extended families of in-laws, cousins, kids and babies take over the newly built resort hotels and beach bungalows. Men play golf in the early morning at Ocean Dunes, in Phan Thiet, the region's main city, a few miles away. Women take cover in the shade while their children frolic in the kiddie pools. In the late afternoon, when the heat has passed, everyone heads to the beach. Fully clothed mothers, their bras and jade pendants visible through wet shirts, splash around in the surf with their shrieking children. Fathers help their sons build sand castles. Then at dusk the whole noisy entourage is off to another expensive dinner.
 ''These new rich are very loud and not too humble,'' says Than Trong Phuc, a Vietnamese-American who escaped Saigon to California in 1975 but returned in 2000 to run the offices of Intel. ''Now a lot of people are making money and showing their wealth.'' Though officially Communist, Vietnam has been opening up economically along the Chinese model, and displays of affluence are becoming increasingly commonplace all over the country. It surprises no one to see a 22-year-old driving a convertible Mercedes with the top down.
 Conspicuous consumption wasn't even possible in Vietnam a decade ago (that 22-year-old might have been thrown in jail), and Mui Ne in its current incarnation barely existed. It was simply the outskirts of Phan Thiet, where in 1968 the Vietcong attacked the American military base LZ Betty in the Tet offensive. Mui Ne was home to no more than a few fishermen and their families, who made their living off the village's chief industry, nuoc mam, a pungent fish sauce. Many locals are Cham, an ethnic Muslim minority whose once great kingdom reached its pinnacle in the 17th century. The ancient ruins of Cham temples still tower over the beach road.
 In 1994, Daniel Arnaud, a French hotelier looking to develop a beach resort in Vietnam, drove out from Saigon looking for an idyllic locale. When he reached the ocean near Phan Thiet, where Highway 1 first hits the shore before heading up to Hanoi, he found a gorgeous stretch of sand lined with small coconut groves, banana plantations and a few fishermen's huts. In 1995, he and his German wife, Jutta, got permission from the local government to build Coco Beach, a cluster of wooden bungalows, and it began luring expatriates -- mostly fellow Europeans working at multinational corporations or consulates in Saigon -- on the weekends. ''This was a sleepy little place in the middle of the true Vietnam,'' Arnaud says.
 Even though Highway 1 was not entirely paved, and it took up to six hours to reach the beach, the resort was packed, he says: ''People really needed a place to get away.'' In 1997, a French-Vietnamese investor built a second resort (now called the Victoria). A year after that, Highway 1 was fully paved, cutting travel time in half, and Mui Ne picked up serious momentum.
 By 2001, the town's lure reached beyond the circle of Saigon expatriates. Kite surfers discovered that winds blow a perfect 10 to 20 knots all day, from January to April (the beach now draws some 300 kite surfers each season). But it's not the kite surfers who are responsible for the boom; it's the Vietnamese elite. ''Wherever the expats go, that's where the new Vietnamese bourgeois want to go,'' says Phuc. ''For them, Americans and Europeans are very fashionable.''
 Currently there are nearly 80 resorts and guesthouses along Mui Ne beach. Few are on par with the luxury resorts of international beach destinations like Nha Trang. But then Mui Ne isn't trying to be that sort of place. For the moment, only about a half dozen properties cater to foreigners and the expat crowd, who frequent the rustic-chic bungalows of Coco Beach and the higher-end Sailing Club, with its separate beach villas filled with bamboo chaises and mosquito-netted four-poster beds. 
 Perhaps inevitably, private houses are the next step for Mui Ne. Zoning laws allow only public resorts, not individuals, to own beachfront property. But hundreds of residential complexes and a golf course are under construction in the hills across the road, and ocean-view houses are expected to go up next year. Land speculation is rampant, but building so far has been somewhat modest and family-oriented.
 Unlike with so many fast-moving development zones, tension between the locals and the arrivistes has been minimal. ''The people who used to have fishing boats on the beach, they're rich now, too,'' Arnaud says. ''Their speck of sand, which used to be worth 10 cents a square meter, is worth $300 a square meter, and they can sell half, build a new house and get a new motorbike and still have half left.'' 
 And that's just on the other side of the road from the beach. ''We were afraid that it wouldn't all happen this way, that it would be the wrong type of Vietnamese development,'' Arnaud says, citing another beach resort, Vung Tau. Much closer to Saigon, it used to be the weekend getaway for the wealthy during the French colonial period. But years of neglect, proximity to an oil refinery and the recent infiltration of girlie bars, karaoke parlors and casinos aimed at Chinese tourists have given Vung Tau a seedy reputation. In Mui Ne, though, the prospects only get better by the year, as more restaurants open and small shops spring up to cater to the growing weekender crowd and, increasingly, to international travelers as well. ''You can see the evolution here daily,'' Arnaud says. ''If this were five years ago, we would be sitting on top of a banana tree right now.'' 
 Essentials Mui Ne, Vietnam
 Getting There 
 A taxi from Saigon to Mui Ne costs about $80 each way. There are also two trains a day; it costs about $6 each way (for schedules, go to www.vr.com.vn).
 Hotels Coco Beach Resort 011-84-62-847-112; www.cocobeach.net; bungalows from $85. 
 Novotel Ocean Dunes and Golf Resort Phan Thiet; 011-84-62-822-393; www.vietnamgolfresorts.com; doubles from $42 (call for private villa rates and availability).
 Sailing Club Mui Ne 011-84-62-847-442; www.sailingclubvietnam.com; doubles from $55.
 Restaurant Cay Bang 2-4 Nguyen Dinh Chieu; 011-84-62-847-009; entrees $10-$15.00


GRAPHIC: Photos: Riding a wave Clockwise from right: a young dune sledder on Mui Ne beach
the Ocean Dunes resort, in nearby Phan Thiet
Vietnamese fishing boats
a Coco Beach Resort guest cottage
along Highway 1
the offerings at Cay Bang restaurant
The tide is high From top: inside one of the private villas for rent at the Ocean Dunes resort, in Phan Thiet
 surfers on Mui Ne, which is still unspoiled despite the influx of hotels and weekenders from Saigon. (Photogrqphs by Tony Law)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); BEACHES (78%); SURFING (78%); RESORTS (73%); GOLF (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); LUXURY GOODS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Travel and Vacations; English Language; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Nathan Lump; Sheridan Prasso

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mui Ne (Vietnam); Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



455 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; SHOPPING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2345 words

HEADLINE: A Cappuccino With That $5,000 Suit?

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; Abby Gruen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THEY treat their customers like kings and queens. They send limos and greet clients by name, dispensing cappuccinos and elaborate gift wraps along with fashion advice. They send cards for birthdays and anniversaries, thank-you notes and flowers after large purchases. They know their clients' favorite baseball teams and, more to the point, their preferred designers. And on request, they let patrons shop after hours. 
 In a world of sprawling malls and big-box stores, high-end suburban retailers have survived by coddling the consumer. Swanky stores like Marshs in Huntington, N.Y.; Mary Jane Denzer in White Plains; Mitchells in Westport, Conn.; and Garmany in Red Bank, N.J., may carry the same pricey labels as elite department stores: Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, Ermenegildo Zegna, Ralph Lauren, Loro Piana. But these posh shops do more than move the merchandise; they make affluent shoppers feel pampered as they pull out their Platinum cards. 
On a recent afternoon, Debbi Barkoff, of Woodbury, N.Y., was trying on a $290 Empire-style black wool Vince turtleneck sweater in the dressing room at Marshs, which has been around for more than 80 years as a men's emporium. Arlene Pressman, a saleswoman, handed her a pair of leggings, promising that with either ballet slippers or short boots with a heel, the outfit would look divine on her coming trip to Italy. She might even want to wear it on the plane. 
 ''How cute are you?'' Ms. Pressman gushed. 
 Ms. Barkoff, 45, passed on the combination. But she has shopped at Marshs every week since it reopened in September, after a renovation that added a 5,000-square-foot designer women's department. 
 ''I love walking in and having a saleswoman greet me,'' said Ms. Barkoff, who on previous visits had bought a $365 leopard-print cashmere cardigan and a $425 navy Tory Burch blazer. ''I love the personalization, as opposed to walking into a big department store, where nobody helps you or cares about you.'' 
 Ms. Barkoff said she could wait for a coupon or find the same items elsewhere. But at Marshs, the salesclerk remembered her and knew what she liked. 
 ''I'd rather spend the extra money for that,'' she said. 
 Ms. Barkoff has plenty of company. Ted Taft, managing director of Meridian Consulting, a retail consulting company in Westport, said customers were looking for more than plain-vanilla cookie-cutter stores. ''People aren't just shopping for price, they are looking for shopping experiences,'' he said. 
 In some ways, Marshs is a throwback to the old days of small-town Main Street: a warm, friendly family-owned business. Ms. Barkoff's husband, Scott, 42, got his first suit there as a boy. These days, Marshs sells $5,000 men's suits, $4,000 women's suits, $1,800 handbags, $750 shoes and diamond jewelry. 
 Ron Marsh, the grandson of the founder, said that the store began upgrading its offerings in the 1970s, when competition from discounters and department stores started cutting into the business. ''It was a big challenge for all the specialty stores,'' he said. ''We evolved from more middle-upper merchandise to better merchandise through the years and kept on trading up.''
 Mr. Marsh said his store ''would do anything to make the customer happy.'' For example, if he knew customers were heading to a local restaurant, he might arrange for a bottle of wine to be sent to their table. Sometimes, he will dispatch a fitter to a client's home to help clean out -- and restock -- the closet. 
 Last year, Marshs was acquired by Mitchells/Richards of Connecticut, a third-generation family business that owns two high-end clothiers, Mitchells, in Westport, and Richards of Greenwich. (Recently, the company also acquired Vineyard Vines, a preppy sportswear and accessories shop in Greenwich.)
 Chris Mitchell, one of the seven Mitchell family members in the business, relocated with his family to Long Island to manage the store with Mr. Marsh. To make Marshs a top-notch specialty store, Mr. Marsh said, he needed the Mitchells expertise. 
 Jack Mitchell, the chief executive of Mitchells/Richards/Marshs, literally wrote the book on passionate customer service, ''Hug Your Customers: The Proven Way to Personalize Sales and Achieve Astounding Results'' (Hyperion, 2003). His wife, Linda, the stores' head buyer for women's attire, is equally customer-centric. 
 For example, when she attends fashion week in Milan or in Paris, she takes along a list of her customers' preferences, ''the kinds of things they like and the sizes they wear,'' she said. Then she buys the clothes she thinks they will like, but she has to be careful with the ball gowns. ''You don't want more than one person in the same dress,'' she said.
 Mr. Mitchell, 67, still works the floor at Mitchells on Saturdays, tape measure draped around his neck. He said that being successful was about relationships, not transactions. 
 ''We are all about treating each and every customer as if you were a friend,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''I call it hugging. That's how we can compete with the great stores in New York City. They are great stores. But why schlep to the city when you can find world-class people, world-class service and products in the suburbs?''
 Like Marshs and Richards, Mitchells provides free alterations; the three stores employ 54 tailors. Patricia Burrows, a psychotherapist from Weston, Conn., said the free tailoring made shopping there stress-free. 
 ''If I gain or lose a few pounds -- and inches -- I know that I can go back and have my clothes altered,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''It makes the high prices a little more palatable.'' 
 But, she said, she tries to restrain herself. ''It is impossible to find a sweater there for under $100, and if I shop there too much, my sense of economy and proportion will become totally distorted,'' Ms. Burrows said. ''But the clothes are often beautiful, and the espresso is always delicious.''
 There is similar cosseting at the CoCo Pari store in Red Bank, which doubles as an entertainment center on weekends. Cocktails and cappuccino are served, and club music plays until 11 p.m. Boyfriends and husbands wait out the shopping on a sofa, watching the flat-screen television above the display of Christian Louboutin and Jimmy Choo shoes. 
 Kimberly Landau, 30, opened the first CoCo Pari, in Deal, N.J., 10 years ago, inspired by her shopping excursions while on vacation in Miami's South Beach. She carries diffusion lines, like Dolce & Gabbana's D&G and M Missoni, a step below Missoni couture, for her customers.
 ''I dress them for the real world, not a red carpet,'' she said. Her clothing racks are arranged by color, not label, and possible pairings -- a Catherine Malandrino tweed jacket with Paige jeans, or a Robert Rodriguez leather jacket with Alvin Valley leather-trimmed pants -- make coordinating easy.
 At Mary Jane Denzer, in White Plains, outfits are less suggested than prescribed. Designed by the architect who built the Dior boutique on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles, the store's hushed central rotunda is lined with carefully selected clothes from a stable of designers -- including Akris, Valentino, Nina Ricci and Ungaro -- who have worked with Ms. Denzer for years. Her customers are wealthy women who buy the latest designer clothes each season and want complete ensembles.
 An outfit at Mary Jane Denzer costs at least $1,800, and nothing is sold without matching shoes, which can add another $1,000 to the bill. Gowns cost $2,500 to $10,000. Ms. Denzer herself is usually on the sales floor, often with her tiny dog Bodhi, a floppy-eared Papillon, in tow. ''Our customer is not looking for what they need,'' Ms. Denzer said. ''Our customer buys what they want.''
 At Garmany, in Red Bank, Larry Garmany and his son, Johnell, also serve the well-to-do. ''We have dresses here that are $8,000 to $9,000,'' Larry Garmany said. ''That's not for everybody.'' Neither are the $4,000 Kiton blazers or the $21,000 custom suits, which can be ordered from swatches of gold-threaded fabrics. The store has sold only one of those, but, Mr. Garmany said, ''Our sales staff is trained to handle people if a customer is going to spend $50,000 or just buy a tie.''
 Like Marshs, Garmany began as a menswear shop. Last year the Garmanys expanded the Red Bank outlet into a 40,000-square-foot, sophisticated department store. The first-floor men's department is divided into boutiques for designer brands like Canali and Zegna. Upstairs, in the spacious women's department, with its vaulted ceiling and atrium, crystal chandeliers and creamy colors add an aura of elegance. Even children are catered to, with DVDs screened in an authentic movie-theater setting. 
 Ray Catena, the owner of the luxury-car dealerships that bear his name, is a Garmany regular. If he arrives late, the store lets him finish his shopping, even if it is an hour past the usual 8 p.m. closing time. ''It's like having your own valet,'' Mr. Catena said.
 Dovie Damen, a jewelry designer from Manasquan, N.J., who was at CoCo Pari looking for a dress for a charity event, had another analogy: ''They make you feel like a movie star in here,'' she said. 
 But not everyone who can afford to shop at these stores wants to. Sheila Mossman, of Greenwich, Conn., is a triathlete and owns a golden retriever. She said she tried to patronize local businesses. She goes to Richards mostly for holiday gifts, but treated herself to an Armani suit. ''They do have some wonderful things for women,'' she said. ''But I am not comfortable wearing $2,000 worth of clothing on a daily basis.'' 
 For those who don't worry about dog hair, and who also want the perks and amenities that such hefty prices can command, these shops can be a perfect fit. When the Westchester Mall opened 10 years ago, Ms. Denzer's White Plains boutique -- 7,600 square feet, with space in the back for seven tailors and seamstresses -- was invited to move there, she said. But she decided to stay put on Mamaroneck Avenue. 
 ''My customers,'' she said, ''are not mall customers.'' 

Giants Eclairs, Cruise Wear and Yarn -- and Where to Find Them
 The following is a sampling of independently owned shops in Connecticut.
 Belgique Patisserie and Chocolatier, 1 Bridge Street, Kent, (860) 927-3681. A bakery that's so popular people often wait in lines wrapping around the store for the cakes, truffles and tarts. Some of the treats look much too beautiful to eat, especially the chocolate horses, rabbits and terriers.
 Candy Nichols Inc., 67 Elm Street, New Canaan, (203) 972-8600, and 102 Greenwich Avenue, Greenwich, (203) 622-1220. Dresses infants through teenagers in Gold Coast style. This is the place to find cruise wear in December.
 Colebrook Store, 559 Colebrook Road, Colebrook, (860) 379-5030, colebrookgeneralstore.com. This general store has been around since the War of 1812 and claims to be the oldest continuously operating store in Connecticut. The building also once housed the town court and, until 1996, the post office. Sells the daily necessities you'd expect from a country store, but is best known for its baked goods and, notably, giant eclairs that take two hands to eat politely.
 Contessa Corset Shop, 66 LaSalle Road, West Hartford, (860) 236-5380, contessacorset.com. Serves women who want just the right undergarment, particularly for a wedding or special event. The saleswomen have mastered the lost art of bra fitting. Also specializes in mastectomy fittings, and the shop maintains a fitting room at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford.
 Darien Sport Shop, 1127 Post Road, Darien, (203) 655-2575, dariensportshop.com. Sells high-end clothing and footwear, plus sporting goods from lacrosse sticks and skis to trampolines. Great service is a priority for the father-daughter owners.
 Good Goods, 859 Post Road, Darien, (203) 655-8100. Stocks designer fabrics and decorative trims for the home at discounted prices, and makes slipcovers, upholstery, pillows and window treatments to order. The staff offers design tips and guidance. 
 J. Seitz & Company, 9 East Shore Road, New Preston, (860) 868-0119, jseitz.com. An apparel and home furnishings boutique that's stocked with jewelry and art, rustic hand-painted tables, vintage glass chandeliers, Mitchell Gold sofas, Diane Von Furstenberg dresses, suede shirts, and a collection of sweaters and T-shirts for men and women. 
 Knit Together, 111 High Ridge Road, Stamford, (203) 324-9276, knittogether.com. Stocks one of the biggest selections of yarns in Fairfield County, including hand-dyed yarns, cashmere, silk, mohair and bamboo. The sales representatives are generous with their time. 
 Lebanon Green Market, 199 West Town Street, Lebanon, (860) 642-7051. The store is near the Revolutionary War office where the Comte de Rochambeau, the French commander, drilled his troops before they joined George Washington at Yorktown in 1781. The store sells ''everything from grinders to automotive products,'' said Jeff Sirois, the owner, ''and in deer season, we cut up and dress the deer for the hunters.''
 Quasimodo, 43 Bank Street, New Milford, (860) 210-1367. A quirky music, clothing and gift shop. With merchandise ranging in style from prep to punk, Gothic to grunge. Check out the purse in the shape of a coffin. ''Little kids, grandparents, everyone walks in here with the same kind of 'wow' look on their faces,'' said Christine Myers, the owner.
 Stackpole, Moore, Tryon Company, corner of Pratt and Trumbull Streets, Hartford, (860) 522-0181. One of city's first upscale independent retailers, the 100-year-old shop is still a pillar of prep style for men and women. No malls or expansion plans ever muddied the focus of this shop. It continues to attract customers who have been shopping there for decades.
 The Whitney Shop, 100 Elm Street, New Canaan, (877) 966-4566, thewhitneyshop.com. Sells distinctive gifts, stationery and special-occasion clothes for children, including christening gowns and communion dresses. Hand-painted and personalized nursery items are staples of the children's department.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WANTS, NOT NEEDS -- Mary Jane Denzer, with Bodhi at her feet, outfits women from head to toe in her luxury shop in White Plains. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
POSH STOPS -- Marshs (Huntington, L.I.), Richards (Greenwich, Conn.), Mary Jane Denzer, Garmany (Red Bank, N.J.) and CoCo Pari (Red Bank). (Photographs by [from left] Vic DeLucia, Janet Durrans [2] and Laura Pedrick [2] for The New York Times)(pg. 2)
FAMILY AFFAIR -- Above, three generations of the Mitchell clan at Richards, in Greenwich, Conn. At left, Susan Harry in the women's evening wear department at Garmany in Red Bank, N.J. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SUBURBS (76%); MEN (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (60%); BASEBALL (57%) Apparel; Suburbs

COMPANY: ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%) Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



456 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Finds Itself Deep in Heart of Wine Country

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: ADEL, Iowa 

 BODY:
Stan Olson used to grow corn and soybeans on hundreds of acres here on the Raccoon River west of Des Moines, but no more. These days, Mr. Olson's empty grain silo is useful only as a rustic image to promote his new vineyard and tasting room.
 Mr. Olson's Penoach Winery is a tiny operation in a red barn behind his family's farmhouse, next to a small grape nursery. It does not have much of a customer base yet or any vintages that go beyond last year, but Mr. Olson is thrilled nonetheless.
 ''I will make as much selling grape plants off of two acres this year as I did many years on 1,000 acres of corn and raising 3,000 head of hogs,'' said Mr. Olson, who makes much of his money selling cuttings to other aspiring vintners.
 ''This year was a very good year,'' he said. 
 When wineries began popping up around the region in the 1970s -- the first rebound of a local industry killed by Prohibition -- many people thought it was a fad that would go the way of herbal diets and frozen yogurt stands.
 But across the Midwest, wineries are thriving, both as tourism magnets and profit-making businesses. Some are even producing quality wine, sommeliers say, made possible by French-American grape hybrids that are bred to thrive in cold climates. [Review, Page 32.]
 They have been so successful that more corn, soybean and tobacco farmers are clearing fields and planting grapes. In Iowa alone, a new winery has been licensed every two weeks for the past year, officials say. Now, more than 700 acres are devoted to grapes (compared with 15 in 2000) and there are close to 70 commercial wineries. Iowa has also just hired its first state oenologist to help guide the novice winemakers.
 Other Plains and Midwestern states are also producing grapes, and uncorking more of the bottles they produce. 
 In South Dakota, for instance, the number of wineries has more than doubled recently, to 11. In Indiana, the local wine industry has added $34 million to the economy annually. And Ohio is spending $900,000 to promote its local vintages, competing with more established regions in California, the Goliath of American wine.
 ''We're not afraid to take them on,'' said Fred L. Dailey, director of the Ohio Department of Agriculture. Bragging about a recent West Coast competition where an Ohio Riesling won an award, Mr. Dailey said dismissively, ''We beat out all those over-oaked chardonnays over there.'' 
 Much of the soil in the Midwest is too rich for good grape production, but grapes can grow and even thrive, experts say, in sunny areas with sandy, well-drained soil. Because of the extreme temperatures around much of the region, traditional European grape varieties tend not to do well, but some newer hybrid grape types can withstand the cold.
 In a region where farmers have suffered through hard times for decades, the prospect of Bacchus smiling down upon the fields has produced a kind of farm-based optimism rarely seen in these parts.
 ''I go to sleep and wake up with a smile on my face,'' said David Klodd, a native Iowan and an assistant winemaker at the Summerset Winery in Indianola, where sales have been increasing by about 20 percent a year. Summerset expects to sell a total of 130,000 bottles of a dozen varieties this year at $10 a bottle. Mr. Klodd is passionate about grapes, and his biggest problem is running out of Summerset's best seller, a semisweet red, now that the wine is under contract to be sold in stores. 
 ''People used to think it was funny, the idea of grapes and wine in Iowa,'' he said. ''They laughed at me when I'd go into the farm service to buy chemicals. Well, they don't laugh anymore.''
 Summerset has also become a tourist destination, with concerts on the weekends, themed parties and grape-stomps that draw thousands. Tourists will actually pay for the privilege to stomp grapes, Mr. Klodd was surprised to learn.
 ''I put a couple thousand pounds into a tank and people go nuts,'' he said. ''This is a tourist industry. If we were here just as a winery, I wouldn't have a job. You have to develop a base, and we do that with harvest parties and weddings.''
 The lifestyle is still new to many in the Corn Belt. ''Even on a bad day you can be happy -- just drink some of your own stuff,'' said Mr. Olson, whose thick workman's hands now gently pour Penoach's delicate blends.
 Agricultural economists say the timing is right for wineries like Summerset and Penoach -- the original Indian name for Adel -- because the American public is becoming more wine-friendly and is increasingly fond of all things local. Nationally, wine sales grew by 5 percent last year, to a retail value of $26 billion, according to the Wine Institute, an advocacy group for the industry.
 ''In the Midwest, it goes back to wanting to make homemade wine and having it represent the character of the region,'' said Bruce P. Bordelon, an associate professor of horticulture and landscape architecture at Purdue University. ''The wineries aren't trying to be Napa, they're trying to be Illinois. And there's a place for all of them.''
 Indeed, most Midwestern wine is consumed locally. But even at home, the wine can sometimes be a hard sell because the newly developed cold-hardy grapes are often unfamiliar to consumers. They go by names like vidal blanc, seyval blanc and chambourcin. 
 ''You just say, 'You like merlot? Well, here's something similar, and we grow it out back. See if you like it,' '' Dr. Bordelon said. ''Most of the time, guess what? They do.''
 Outside the Midwest, the wines face even more of an uphill battle. 
 ''I'm not really feeling it here,'' said Izabela Wojcik, programming director at the James Beard Foundation, a New York group that promotes regional cuisine. ''I'm not seeing anything from the Midwest at this point.''
 Ms. Wojcik recently held a dinner that featured wine from Idaho, and though it turned out to be excellent, she said, ''We felt a little bit like it was a gamble.''
 Still, food and wine experts agree that things are changing. 
 ''The Europeans have had centuries to understand their vines,'' said Doug Frost, a master sommelier based in Kansas City, Mo. ''Lately, Midwesterners have produced some lovely wines from these vines, aided by greater experience in the vineyards and in the wineries.''
 Perhaps most important in Iowa is the fact that wine -- whatever it tastes like -- is giving farmers the possibility of a decent living again. Some young people are choosing the vineyard back home over jobs in cities and suburbs. 
 Corey Goodhue is one such young farmer. His family cultivates 3,300 acres of corn and soybeans near Des Moines. Upon graduation from Iowa State University in December, Mr. Goodhue, 23, will have many options but says he will go back to the farm. He has big ideas about grapes.
 ''We're not getting enough value out of corn and beans,'' he said. ''But these grapes, there's a tremendous market emerging. On one acre of ground, if we net $40 with corn or beans we've done good. With grapes, you could net upwards of $1,500 an acre. For us, growing grapes, it's the holy grail of high-value crops.'' 
 And that is without a winery or tourism. Mr. Goodhue said he was interested only in growing, not winemaking. He investigated apples, raspberries and rhubarb as potential moneymakers, to no avail. But grape-tending even fit nicely into the slow months of the corn- and bean-growing season. 
 ''My dad said that if he was my age he would do it because it makes sense,'' Mr. Goodhue said. ''But most importantly, I've had a lotof fun doing it. I like to put on my iPod and work on the grapes.''
 In April, Mr. Goodhue planted his first acre of vines with the help of some buddies from Iowa State. Start-up costs were $6,000, and he said he planned to plant six additional acres next year.
 ''When we were putting up the trellises, people were rubber-necking and stopping on the road to ask, 'What are you guys doing?' '' he said. ''They had no idea, but they were certainly interested.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Corey Goodhue hopes to convert his family's harvest from corn and soybean to grapes. ''It's the holy grail of high-value crops,'' Mr. Goodhue said. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. 32)Map of Iowa highlighting Wineries and Vineyards: Iowa has almost 70 commercial wineries and a state oenologist. (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (91%); WINE (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (77%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); WEATHER (69%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Production; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%) Midwestern States (US); Iowa; France

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



457 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; NASHVILLE JOURNAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Project Brings Disharmony To Music City

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Nashville's honky-tonk heart beats loudest along lower Broadway, where the wide avenue passes blocks of neon-draped bars on its way toward the Cumberland River. Country music spills from the doors, hopeful buskers strum on the sidewalk, and at Hatch Show Print, tourists can buy Roy Acuff for Governor posters, reproduced from those of 1948.
 Country music lovers talk about the area with reverence. It was here that Patsy Cline, Hank Williams, Kris Kristofferson and countless others achieved fame. Before the Grand Ole Opry moved across the river, Opry stars dropped in after hours at Tootsie's Orchid Lounge. And aspiring musicians can still find what they need at Gruhn Guitars. 
Now a proposal by developers to demolish most of a block of buildings on Broadway and replace them with a complex including a Westin hotel tower has the city pondering the future of its nostalgic main street, with its boot-and-hat stores, Dixieland flavor and country kitsch so retro it never lost its hipness in the first place. The debate between the project's supporters and its opponents has been polite but passionate.
 If approved, the 19-floor tower, on the south side of Broadway between Second and Third Avenues South, will loom over three- and four-story brick buildings that line the thoroughfare. Besides the 375-room hotel, plans call for condominiums and stores in low-rise buildings at the tower's base.
 The Trail West Building, so called because of the Western shop on the ground floor, would be preserved, the block's only building that lies within an existing downtown historic district. But four others would be taken down, including three that the city's Historical Commission has deemed eligible for historic preservation.
 The developers and their supporters estimate that the $105 million, eco-friendly project, on a block that is among lower Broadway's least sparkling, would generate $25.5 million annually in room, food and retail sales and add $1.1 million a year to the city's tax revenue. They note that a nearby office high-rise, the BellSouth Building, already towers over the area, and say the appearance there is much like what it would be at the hotel.
 But the BellSouth Building, unlike the proposed hotel, is set back from Broadway behind a row of existing low-rises. Opponents say the project, fronting directly on Broadway, would fundamentally change the area's character and bring on other large upscale developments that over time would suffocate Nashville's funky downtown strip and drive out mom-and-pop stores.
 ''The main thing is it sets a terrible precedent that would open the door for any number of projects like this, and eventually what's left of our historic downtown would be destroyed,'' said Patrick McIntyre Jr., executive director of the Tennessee Preservation Trust, a private advocacy group.
 The project cleared a big hurdle Tuesday when it was approved by the city's Planning Commission despite a contrary recommendation by the commission's staff reviewers. The next step, a vote by the 40-member Metro Council, is expected in January, the last significant milestone before ground can be broken.
 Brandon Rains, project manager for one of the developers, the Barber Group of Springdale, Ark., said they had worked hard to incorporate changes sought by city officials. 
 ''We believe that the hotel is at the right height,'' Mr. Rains said. ''We think that we've done the necessary things to not interrupt the historic fabric and scale of lower Broadway. We think our development can coexist with what's been there before.''
 George Gruhn, whose guitar shop has been at Broadway and Fourth Avenue North, several blocks from the project site, since 1970, said he had invested heavily in his business and had seen Broadway change for the better from its time as a seedy, violent district of pawnshops and peep shows. But the developers' plan would improve it still more, Mr. Gruhn said at the hearing Tuesday.
 ''If you look at the buildings in question,'' he said, ''they are no architectural gems. They are some of the ugliest buildings on Broadway.'' 
 Another merchant who would be happy to see the Westin is Dave Liston, general manager at Ernest Tubb Record Shop, where the rotating sign still boasts a ''Mid-nite Jamboree With Top Opry Stars.''
 ''What's in its place now?'' Mr. Liston said. ''Some old barely used or vacant smaller brick buildings?'' The new hotel, he said, would ''just be something nicer to look at walking down Broadway.''
 But John Summers, a member of the Metro Council, said the hotel would drain the area of its vitality and so prove neither attractive nor, over the long term, economically beneficial.
 ''You can put lipstick on a pig, and it's still a pig,'' Mr. Summers told the Planning Commission on Tuesday. ''That's what this is. It's a pig.''
 Among the businesses that would be displaced by the demolition is Kelly's Western Wear and Leather, which opened a few blocks away in the 1940s and began renting its current lower Broadway location 10 years ago. Country music twanged over the radio as Randall Kelly, son of the owners, helped one customer select new jeans. Mr. Kelly shook his head when asked about the future of the store, which will most likely be done in by Broadway's revival.
 ''When you allow the Westin to come in here and build like they want to build,'' he said, ''then where's it going to stop?''
 Preservationists say they sometimes feel as if they are fighting a losing battle in Nashville and elsewhere in Tennessee, where recent demolition of notable buildings has been highly publicized. 
 Ann Roberts, executive director of the city's Historical Commission, said she too worried that the Westin project would set a precedent, leading to other developments that would force out old businesses that give the area its character, in essence replacing grit and funk with glitz.
 ''Broadway is incredibly important to the city,'' Ms. Roberts said, ''and we're going to continue to try to preserve its uniqueness and its very special character. This all isn't resolved yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The BellSouth Building, at left, already towers over lower Broadway.
 Michael Coolidge, left, and Brandon Rains, representing the developers, at a building that would be spared. (Photographs by Josh Anderson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (93%); MUSIC (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); STREET ART (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); HISTORY (69%); APPROVALS (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); RETAIL SALES (67%) Music; Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Country Music; Music

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Grand Ole Opry

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%)

PERSON: Theo Emery

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (96%) TENNESSEE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Nashville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



458 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; EAST NEW YORK JOURNAL; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: A Food Co-Op Brings Together Flavors, and a Community

BYLINE: By LISA AMAND

 BODY:
Smashing a feathery tassel jutting out from callaloo leaves between his fingers, Denniston Wilks scattered the seeds that fell from it on his Brooklyn plot, confident they would grow into plants next year. 
 Mr. Wilks, a 52-year-old city sewer inspector, moved to East New York in 1987 from Jamaica, where callaloo is ubiquitous, eaten with codfish or pork. ''It's very nutritious,'' said Mr. Wilks, as he packed a crate of carrots, collard greens and basil for a neighborhood farmers' market the next day. ''It has lots of iron.''
 Soon Mr. Wilks and other neighborhood gardeners who have sown once-abandoned lots dotting East New York with beets, bitter melon, eggplant and arugula will have another place to sell their harvest. 
 The East New York Food Co-op, scheduled to open tomorrow, in time to supply Thanksgiving shoppers, will be a healthful addition to an area with high rates of obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure, and where French fries are easier to find than ripe tomatoes. 
 ''Five-minute fresh'' is how Salima Jones-Daley, the co-op's project coordinator, describes what the store, at 419 New Lots Avenue, will offer. ''It's great if it's organic, but saying it's local is more important,'' adds Ms. Jones-Daley, 25, who works on environmental issues for the Local Development Corporation of East New York. 
 Modeled after the successful Park Slope Food Co-op, whose members are helping clean, paint and stock the new shop, the East New York store will sell bulk grains, grass-fed meats, tofu products, spices and many vegetables grown without pesticides. Opening with a three-year annual budget of $125,000, the co-op is financed by a $1 million federal grant administered by the Local Development Corporation of East New York and Mount Sinai Medical Center.
 At another East New York community garden, Jonah Braverman surveys salad greens and bok choy destined for the co-op. Mr. Braverman, 26, is the agricultural coordinator for the garden, the United Community Centers Youth Farm, and supervises 20 teenagers who tend the half-acre of lush gardens in the shadow of the No. 3 subway tracks. 
 When the co-op needs turnip greens or cilantro, Mr. Braverman said, his crew will be able to harvest it from their small farm. ''The nice thing about getting a sustainable system in the neighborhood is that we're growing the local economy at the same time,'' he said.
 At the storefront on New Lots Avenue, where they have spent months hauling trash, putting up drywall and repairing used refrigerator cases, Ms. Jones-Daley and Damian Mercado, the co-op's manager, said the end of their preparations was in sight. ''It's not going to be perfect, but that's O.K.,'' said Ms. Jones-Daley, pausing to admire the 2,500-square-foot space, formerly a discount store called Bargain$ and More. 
 A month earlier, glassy-eyed and exhausted, Mr. Mercado said he had doubts that the store would be ready before Thanksgiving. Now, as he tinkered with a paint-spraying machine, he looked relieved. ''We're going to get it done, no matter what,'' said Mr. Mercado, 47, who has managed grocery stores on Long Island and in Brooklyn and the Bronx.
 People who want to become members of the East New York Food Co-op must pay investment and enrollment fees and agree to work at the store three hours every month. But initially the store will issue temporary membership cards allowing curious consumers to test-drive the co-op before committing. 
 Joe Holtz, the general manager and one of the founders of the Park Slope Food Co-op, says he is pleased that another member-operated grocery is opening but knows from experience the challenges. ''If you have a cooperative based on our model, you have to figure out how to go from zero to something,'' said Mr. Holtz, 56, who has been advising the organizers of the East New York store.
 The 33-year-old Park Slope store has 12,800 members; the East New York store has 5. Still, Mr. Holtz is optimistic that it can succeed. ''There might be unemployment in that neighborhood, but there are many people with jobs, with regular lives and with kids going to school,'' he said. 
 Instead of offering the 100 cheeses available at the Park Slope co-op, the East New York store will sell basic, inexpensive foods chosen to appeal to area residents. ''There will be eight kinds of cheese, nothing more exotic than Jarlsberg,'' said Ms. Jones-Daley, who added that she hopes the store can recruit members from surrounding neighborhoods, in part by selling goods at lower prices than supermarkets or bodegas. 
 Even though he now lives in Floral Park on Long Island, Ira Livingstone, 52, still grows cucumbers, pumpkins and squash in his old East New York neighborhood. He said the opening of the co-op reminded him of his native Antigua, where a tradition of self-sufficiency meant that neighbors shared the bounty of their gardens with one another. 
 ''I love the idea of a group of people dedicated to providing organic vegetables and fruits,'' he said. ''It's a turn-on for me. It brings me back to the old days.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At a community garden on New Lots Avenue in Brooklyn, Phillip Scott, 16, and Tannya Mercado, 18, picked produce to be sold at a food co-op. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); GARDENING (89%); MEATS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); PESTICIDES (70%); OBESITY (68%); THANKSGIVING (68%); RETAILERS (68%); NUTRITION (67%); BUDGETS (67%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (57%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (56%); DIABETES (53%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Food; Diet and Nutrition; Cooperatives; Organic Foods and Products

PERSON: Lisa Amand

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



459 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: November 19, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	2	2	6	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	3	1	2	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	4		1	H.R.H., by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) An American-educated European princess faces unexpected challenges when she works at an African Red Cross camp.		 	 	 	5	3	3	THE COLLECTORS, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.99.) The members of the Camel Club reunite to solve a murder at the Library of Congress.		 	 	 	6	4	4	ACT OF TREASON, by Vince Flynn. (Atria, $25.95.) The C.I.A. operative Mitch Rapp makes surprising discoveries when he investigates an attack on a Democratic presidential candidate's motorcade.		 	 	 	7	7	5	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 	8	5	4	ECHO PARK, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) The Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch returns to an old unsolved case with unexpected results.		 	 	 	9	10	2	FIRST IMPRESSIONS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) A wealthy businessman retreats to a small town; reprint of a 1984 novel.		 	 	 	10	6	2	HUNDRED-DOLLAR BABY, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) The madam of an upscale brothel needs help from the Boston private eye Spenser. 		 	 	 	11	9	3	THE BANCROFT STRATEGY, by Robert Ludlum. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) A former intelligence agent tries to rescue a kidnapped colleague, while a banker discovers that her family's foundation is involved in shady politics.		 	 	 	12		1	HOME TO BIG STONE GAP, by Adriana Trigiani. (Random House, $25.95.) Complications with family, friends and politics in a small town in the Blue Ridge Mountains.		 	 	 	13	8	3	WHAT CAME BEFORE HE SHOT HER, by Elizabeth George. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) The back story of the murder of Inspector Thomas Lynley's wife focuses on an abandoned mixed-race family in North London.		 	 	 	14	12	8	THE THIRTEENTH TALE, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 	15	11	5	MOTOR MOUTH, by Janet Evanovich. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Alexandra Barnaby and her boyfriend, a Nascar driver investigate a possible cheating scandal.		 	 	 	16*	13	2	ROAD OF THE PATRIARCH, by R. A. Salvatore. (Wizards of the Coast, $27.95.) A human and an elf face many challenges; Book 3 of the Sellswords fantasy series.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	2	4	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	3	3	6	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	4	4	6	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	5	7	55	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	6		1	A HAND TO GUIDE ME, by Denzel Washington with Daniel Paisner. (Meredith, $24.95.) Seventy-four stories by celebrities and leaders about people who inspired them, introduced by the Academy Award-winning actor.		 	 	 	7	5	14	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	8	6	7	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	9	10	3	THE MR. AND MRS. HAPPY HANDBOOK, by Steve Doocy. (Morrow, $23.95.) Humorous observations on marriage and family life.		 	 	 	10	8	2	THUNDERSTRUCK, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $25.95.) Intertwined stories of early-20th-century murder and scientific intrigue intersect in a sea chase on the North Atlantic; from the author of ''The Devil in the White City.''		 	 	 	11	9	3	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	12	11	3	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) The actress's wacky approach to entertaining.		 	 	 	13	12	83	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	14	14	6	LETTER TO A CHRISTIAN NATION, by Sam Harris. (Knopf, $16.95.) The author of ''The End of Faith'' responds to Christians' arguments in defense of their beliefs.		 	 	 	15		78	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Nov. 4, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestTHE WAR OF THE WORLD: Twentieth-Century Conflict and the Descent of the West, by Niall Ferguson. (Penguin Press, $35.) A panoramic moral analysis of an age of military-industrial slaughter.
 THE STORIES OF MARY GORDON, by Mary Gordon. (Pantheon, $26.) Motifs from Gordon's life, particularly the pain of childhood grief, resurface throughout this collection.
 THE TRANSLATOR, by Leila Aboulela. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic; paper, $12.) A Muslim widow's love for an agnostic Scottish Islamic scholar allows her to nourish a hope for happiness. 
 THE BLIND SIDE: Evolution of a Game, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) From the mean streets to salvation by football: a schoolboy's story. 
 PRISONERS: A Muslim and a Jew Across the Middle East Divide, by Jeffrey Goldberg. (Knopf, $25.) The one-sided friendship of a onetime Israeli immigrant and a onetime Palestinian prisoner. 
 THE GHOST MAP: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic -- and How It Changed Science, Cities, and the Modern World, by Steven Johnson. (Riverhead, $26.95.) How John Snow answered the riddle of cholera in 1854.
 FAIREST, by Gail Carson Levine. (HarperCollins, $16.99; ages 8 to 14.) A fable dealing with the moral puzzles inherent in physical beauty.
 TYRELL, by Coe Booth. (Push/Scholastic, $16.99; ages 12 and up.) This novel's young hero struggles to get his homeless family out of a filthy motel.
 FIRESTORM: The Caretaker Trilogy: Book 1, by David Klass. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17; ages 14 and up.) The protagonist of this hyperkinetic eco-thriller has been sent from the future to avert environmental catastrophe.
 RASH, by Pete Hautman. (Simon & Schuster, $15.95; ages 12 and up.) Real violence is unthinkable in the 21st-century American dystopia depicted in this novel, and a lot of people are in jail.
 ADELE & SIMON, written and illustrated by Barbara McClintock. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $16; ages 4 to 8.) A girl and her brother take a walk in turn-of-the-century Paris.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MEN (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); PROSTITUTION (62%); NASCAR RACING (60%); MOUNTAINS (60%); SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (72%); STEPHEN KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



460 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: The Consigliere

BYLINE: By MICHAEL AGGER. 
Michael Agger is an associate editor at Slate.

 BODY:
THE GODFATHER'S
 REVENGE
 By Mark Winegardner.
 487 pp. G. P. Putnam's Sons.
 $25.95.
Say what you will about the Mafia, it's an organization that knows how to elegantly dispose of a corpse. Mark Winegardner, not a Sicilian but an English professor, has written two sequels to Mario Puzo's ''Godfather.'' The first was a jumble of Cuba scenes, betrayal and Michael Corleone's eternal desire to become a legitimate businessman. It's memorable mostly for angering readers with its ''gay Fredo'' revelation (an entirely plausible deduction from the movies). Now, with ''The Godfather's Revenge,'' a once-amusing idea is starting to assume a necrophiliac air. For how many more pages can Michael, Kay, Tom and Johnny Fontane keep this stuff up? And don't they ever get to leave the '60s behind? 
 Winegardner sets his new novel determinedly in that era, when the Kennedys, the Mafia and Frank Sinatra burned brightly in the American imagination -- a safe and unsatisfying decision. In the wake of ''The Sopranos'' and ''The Wire,'' the book feels like a visit to a Mafia version of Colonial Williamsburg: watch the women make manicotti, while the men plot and sulk in the dark. 
 Recreating Puzo's embroidered Mafia universe can be entertaining, and Winegardner has rich (in every sense of the word) material to work with. Name another movie that half the world can quote ... besides ''Star Wars'' and ''Casablanca'' and ''The Wizard of Oz.'' Despite this inherited advantage, Winegardner writes like a low-level soldier who never fails to mention his connections to the more powerful. ''The Godfather's Revenge'' cruises through a few scenes of double-dealing and then invariably drops some thundering reference to scenes mostly remembered from the Francis Ford Coppola movies. When Johnny Fontane and Francesca Corleone stroll in the moonlight, for instance, they end up flirting on top of the grave of Khartoum, the racehorse whose head showed up in ''The Godfather.'' This made me want to put down the book and go watch the original scene on YouTube.
 ''The Godfather's Revenge'' takes an extended journey into the mind of Tom Hagen, the Corleone consigliere, and continues the original story of Nick Geraci, a traitorous Corleone underboss determined to push aside Michael and take his job. Nick is somewhat unbelievable. He's a wiseguy in search of a Renaissance Weekend -- give this man a pay phone and he will orchestrate a few hits and then go home and work on his memoir while struggling with his Parkinson's and keeping trim as a boxer and hiding from his mortal enemies. Tom merely gets into trouble with his wife after his mistress turns up dead. The novel also features cameos from the athletic, philandering Shea brothers, who are Winegardner's stand-ins for Jack and Bobby.
 The stories of these tradition-bound men are told with economy and a pulpy flair. There's just one problem: these men are not Michael, who makes only shadowy and inconclusive appearances in the book. That's an astounding choice. Why drive a Fiat when you have a Ferrari in the garage? Michael is a character who moves between good and evil, who killed his own brother, who longs for legitimacy and power. He's a successful Hamlet, one who can dress well and act when pushed. 
 The great attraction of Puzo's and Coppola's ''Godfather'' was the romantic notion that a criminal code of honor, based on family, could persist in the modern era. When Winegardner delves into how all the world is like a Mafia, his book feels right, as in the scene with Michael envying the set-up of Robert Moses, who collects kickbacks from the public works he oversees, yet is hailed as a civic hero. Too often, though, the book just wants to rub shoulders with every historical moment it can, including the ultimate: the Kennedy assassination. Sure, the Corleones can be a hidden hand in history, but their power was always balanced by and rooted in a ritualistic family life. This is where Winegardner fails to innovate, and his confection falls flat. After all, a man who doesn't spend time with his family can never be a real man.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (58%) Michael Agger; Mark Winegardner

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



461 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 2; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/Saturn Vue Green Line and Mercury Mariner Hybrid; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1925 words

HEADLINE: Hybrids, Mild or Seasoned, From the Motor City

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN. 
Bradley Berman is the editor of Hybridcars.com.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
MUCH has changed since the advent of the automobile. Newton's mechanistic view of the universe yielded to Einstein's relativity. Commerce shifted from heavy machinery to packets of ones and zeroes zipping through the air.
 But one thing remains the same. More than a century after the car kicked the horse to the curb, the most popular measure of a vehicle's prowess is still horsepower. The postmodern digital age has not caught up to cars, with one notable exception: the hybrid gas-electric vehicle.
With hybrids, auto engineers have finally harnessed the internal combustion engine, placing it in a secondary position behind computer control systems, electronic transmissions, power-splitting devices and dashboard video monitors that provide X-ray vision into the inner workings of complex systems. 
 The best hybrids show their owners, every running moment, just how much energy they are using, and from what source, and why. Can a hybrid play a significant role in solving the problems of oil dependency, auto emissions and climate change? Hybrid drivers don't need a definitive answer. They just need to see -- right now on their dashboards -- that their mileage represents a break from the past and a step toward a potential breakthrough. 
 This feedback is what made my test-drives of two hybrids from Detroit-based automakers -- the Mercury Mariner Hybrid (which differs little from the Ford Escape Hybrid) and the Saturn Vue Green Line from General Motors -- so much fun. 
 Give me the right tools, and I (or you) can wring truly impressive mileage from cars like these. But if you drive 'em as if you stole 'em, they'll slurp hydrocarbons like any car. 
 The hybrid sport utility represents a double-whammy American automotive fantasy: the go-anywhere, do-everything image of an S.U.V. with the potential to preserve the outdoor environment you are rolling over. But do these hybrids really deliver? 

Vue: Going Green for Less
 The mild-hybrid Saturn Vue Green Line is G.M.'s first gas-electric vehicle, unless you count the company's ultramild-hybrid pickup trucks.
 The hybrid field is starting to get crowded -- there are now a dozen to choose from -- so the pitch for the Green Line is ''the most affordable S.U.V. hybrid.'' In other words, this Vue appeals to your inner accountant.
 The numbers would impress any C.P.A. For $22,995, the Green Line delivers an E.P.A. fuel economy rating of 27 m.p.g. in town and 32 in the country, which is the highest highway rating for any sport utility. For comparison's sake, a conventional gas-only Vue with 4-cylinder engine, front drive and automatic transmission is rated 22 in town, 27 on the highway.
 I drove the Green Line on two successive 78-mile highway loops, one well below the speed limit and a second in complete disregard of the 65 m.p.h. signs. As a saint, I achieved an impressive 36 m.p.g. As a sinner, my fuel economy dropped to 24 m.p.g. I have little doubt that a careful foot applied to the Green Line could regularly produce 30 m.p.g. on the highway. 
 Instead of a discrete electric motor that can drive the wheels just like a gasoline engine, the Green Line uses a belt alternator-starter; it shuts the engine off when the car comes to a complete stop, eliminating gas consumption at idle. The Green Line's 36-volt battery and motor-generator smartly wake up the engine as soon as the driver's foot comes off the brake pedal. 
 Kudos to Saturn's technical team for producing an auto-stop feature that works smoothly and consistently. In contrast, Honda's system requires the car to return to at least 10 m.p.h. before it will shut down again. In the Vue, you can lift and return your foot to the brake as often as you like -- as you would in stop-and-go traffic. Each time, the engine pauses for a few moments at low idle, then drops to a full engine-off stop. 
 What you can't do, though, is launch forward in all-electric mode. That feat -- the thing that, in the view of many people, makes a hybrid a hybrid -- belongs, for the moment, only to full hybrid systems from Toyota and Ford. 
 Were good mileage the only criterion for likability, this review would be over. The problem, though, is that every auto credit requires a debit, and accountants' fingerprints can be seen all over this Vue.
 Handling is acceptable but not impressive. The 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine is loud but delivers barely adequate performance.
 Aerodynamics are a crucial factor in fuel economy, and the Vue's was improved -- to a drag coefficient of 0.36, from 0.38 -- by lowering the chassis an inch and leaving off the roof rack. Unfortunately, ridges that remain on the roof call attention to the fact that something is missing. The lower profile also leaves the Green Line feeling more like a portly wagon than a high-riding S.U.V. 
 The doors are easy enough to open, but the upright backseat is excruciating; passengers will yearn for the relative comfort of flying cross-country in coach class.
 A 36-volt battery pack, which lets the auto-stop function do its thing, is housed in the cargo area. The rest of that compartment is occupied by what Saturn calls a rear cargo organizer; it is a set of hinged plastic dividers so flimsy that my friends guffawed when I showed it to them.
 The biggest flaw may stem from the cost-containment measures applied to the instruments. The typical hybrid driver needs real-time information to wring the most miles from the fuel, but Saturn provides only silly green lights and a little dial and pointer. A green ''eco'' light is supposed to come on when the Vue matches or beats the E.P.A. economy estimates, but I found the flickering light to be worthless. The dial is supposed to indicate when the battery is charging or providing an assist, but a meter to monitor mileage on a specific trip would be much more useful.
 There is also the Green Line's overall feel of righteous deprivation. While the Green Line is rather Spartan, the Red Line, a higher-performance Vue, has a distinctive front end, sport suspension, 18-inch alloy wheels, leather seats and much more. The not-so-subtle message: You can spend your money on high-quality fun and get a Red Line, or opt for a big green bummer.
 Fortunately, a new Vue is on the way. The 2008 model, which will be previewed at the Los Angeles auto show later this month, will be similar to the new Opel Antara that will be sold in foreign markets. The new Vue will also trade its ding resistant but ill-fitting plastic body panels for sheet-metal, which will perhaps make the crossover utility feel less like a disposable car.
 For now, the Vue Green Line proves that G.M. is capable of improving the fuel efficiency of many of its vehicles at a modest cost. The well-engineered belt alternator-starter could be offered on tens of thousands of G.M. vehicles, virtually eliminating wasted fuel at idle.
 Yet as an overall package, the Green Line is sadly wanting. G.M. started with a laudable goal, to show that it can deliver gas-saving technology at a discount, but it has fallen far short of other hybrid makers on the execution.

Mariner: Eco Yet Macho
 If the Saturn seems more driven by green-marketing imperatives than by driver satisfaction, G.M.'s crosstown rival has come up with a hybrid S.U.V. that really works, albeit one that costs some $7,000 more.
 The Mercury Mariner Hybrid combines the most robust gas-electric system available today -- it will stay in electric mode longer than any competitor -- with the body of a stylish yet rugged-looking sport utility. 
 With its mix of digital-era sophistication and creature comforts, the Mariner Hybrid works so well that one wonders whether, if it had been more aggressively marketed since its debut in late 2004, it could have been the hit that the ailing Ford Motor Company so desperately needs. 
 Does the Mariner Hybrid have the rugged sex appeal of other S.U.V.'s? Is that even possible? Until now, hybrids could hardly be considered babe magnets or or hunk attractors. 
 The comedic actor Will Ferrell, a Prius owner, has said, ''In addition to being obviously economical and environmentally friendly, they drive great and are just plain sexy.'' Obviously, he tells jokes for a living. 
 Consider my brother. Fed up with the cost of feeding a gallon of imported fuel into his Range Rover for every 11 miles driven, he picked up a hybrid crossover utility, a Lexus RX 400h, instead. A year later, the drumbeat of teasing from friends and loved ones -- they accused him of driving a girlie car -- compelled him to ditch the Lexus and get another Range Rover.
 He should have held out for the Mariner Hybrid. Its shape is pugilistic, like the Escape's. It is square and muscular but has flourishes like accent grilles on the taillights and gauges rimmed in chrome.
 The Mariner is technically a crossover, but it seems solid and upright like a real S.U.V. Although the '07 model comes only with all-wheel drive, a front-drive version will be offered for 2008.
 Instrumentation is crucial to the hybrid experience, because the fun of a hybrid is using all available tools to get the maximum mileage. Ford's system beats Toyota's hands-down in its ability to stay in all-electric mode for extended periods.
 The Mariner Hybrid, like the Escape Hybrid, offers an expanded opportunity to use the gas pedal, brake and gears to juggle energy into and out of the rechargeable batteries. 
 Want to get a full charge to the batteries? Accelerate to about 30 m.p.h. and slip the shifter into low (not actually a gear, but a tighter engagement of the motor-generator). How long do you want to stay in E.V. (electric) mode? If you use some Astaire footwork to accelerate slowly and evenly, you can nudge the Mariner to 30 m.p.h. without using a drop of gas. 
 If you slip out of E.V. mode at speeds as high as 40 m.p.h., and your battery is adequately charged, you can give the brake two quick taps and slip right back into E.V. mode. 
 Certainly, few hybrid owners will take the time to learn all the tricks, but even the most absent-minded motorists are constantly reminded that they are piloting some seriously geeky-cool technology. 
 When I employed all the advanced techniques of an experienced hybrid driver, I achieved highway and city mileage in the mid-30's -- not bad for an S.U.V. But when I drove like a fool, overall mileage fell to the mid-20s.
 The ultimate benefits of hybrid technology -- savings at the pump, a poke at OPEC, reduced emissions, whatever -- are personal. That gives much more meaning to the Mariner's ability to stay in all-electric mode longer than any other hybrid. Ford's engineers outdid Toyota's in pushing the technology to the limit. 
 Unfortunately, Ford's marketing department overlooked the potential of the Mariner Hybrid as a lean, mean, digital-era machismo machine. It made its debut under the same tired green banners and slipped into obscurity almost immediately. True, the Mariner Hybrid hit its sales target without breaking a sweat, but that is an exceedingly modest 2,000 a year. 
 In September, former President Bill Clinton took delivery of a ''Presidential Edition'' Mariner Hybrid, inspiring this flight of fancy: What if Mr. Clinton was Ford's hybrid pitchman rather than Kermit the Frog?
 A suave but serious spokesman might have let the American public see the Mariner Hybrid for what it is: a well-appointed, well-priced S.U.V. with best-in-class fuel economy and groundbreaking technology. It might even have gained recognition as the first great American vehicle of the 21st century.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The'08 Mariner Hybrid gets a mild restyling and a front-drive version. (pg. 2)
Mercury Mariner Hybrid
 Saturn Vue Green Line (pg. 1)Chart: ''Greener Crossovers'' lists features and specifications for selected S.U.V.'s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (70%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (70%) Automobiles; Reviews; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Saturn Division of General Motors Corp; Mercury Division of Ford Motor Co

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Bradley Berman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



462 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: If All the Slices Are Equal, Will the Pie Shrink? 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
THE chief executive of Wal-Mart Stores, H. Lee Scott Jr., made more than $15 million last year in cash, stock and options, according to the company's annual report, an amount equivalent to roughly 850 times the pay of Wal-Mart's average ''associate'' tending to shoppers on a superstore floor. 
 Mr. Scott isn't even at the top of the income-disparity league. Bruce E. Karatz, the former chief executive of the homebuilder KB Home, made $150 million last year, according to the Corporate Library, a research firm. According to government statistics, a residential construction worker makes less than one four-thousandth of that.
Executives are gorging themselves across the economy. In a study published this year, the economists Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley, and Thomas Piketty of the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris reported that the top 0.1 percent of Americans in income receive nearly 7 percent of the total, the highest share since the 1920s. 
 Yet while the chasm between the lavish pay packages dished out in America's executive suites and the wages of the minions below may jar archetypal notions of fairness, economists point out that not all inequality is bad. While it may have nasty side effects, some inequality is needed to spur growth. 
 ''Clearly, perfect egalitarianism wouldn't lead to much effort or output,'' said Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard. ''If you're just talking about making the pie as big as we could, it is not clear what level of inequality is best.''
 Like any other difference in prices, economists say, income inequality allows people and companies to better allocate investments of money and effort. Pay differences encourage the best and brightest into the most profitable lines of work, and the most profitable companies to hire them. Inequality, according to this view, provides an incentive to work extra hard to come out on top. 
 In a recent study that caused a bit of a stir in academia, two young economists, Xavier Gabaix of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Augustin Landier of the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University, argued that the fast climb in pay for corporate chief executives had simply followed the rise in the size of American companies. 
 The difference in talent between the No. 1 and the No. 150 executive might not amount to much, but when the companies for which they work are humongous, these tiny differences could translate into real money. As they have grown, America's corporate behemoths have bid up the price of executives in their quest to get the best.
 Matching the best executives with companies that can profit most from them, and thus pay them the most, will produce wealth, Mr. Gabaix said. ''Optimal inequality is whatever the market dictates at any given time,'' he said. Put differently, efforts to share the pie in a more egalitarian way may reduce the size of the pastry. 
 In their study, Mr. Saez and Mr. Piketty found that recent growth has been faster in countries where the share of income going to the wealthy has increased sharply, including the United States, Britain and Canada, than it has in more egalitarian nations like France or Japan.
 ''In recent decades it looks like the link is true,'' Mr. Saez said. Still, the breakneck speed at which America's richest have increased their take of the economy since the 1980s is disconcerting to many analysts.
 Many are skeptical that the chasm between the rewards of the rich and the rest needs to be quite so big to spur the economy along. 
 ''If the growth in inequality is just about improving incentives, it's gone beyond what looks necessary,'' Mr. Katz said. ''I don't think the added incentive of earning $100 million over $50 million is very different than the incentive of making $10 million over $5 million.''
 Mr. Saez pointed out that Japan's postwar economic boom, which lasted until 1990, wasn't hurt by the country's relatively homogeneous income distribution. Mr. Katz noted that the United States economy grew very quickly from 1947 to 1970, a period when the distribution of rewards was much more egalitarian than it is today. 
 Moreover, the growing gap between rich and poor has costs that may be harder to quantify.
 To begin with, growing inequality will strike many as unfair, prompting social tensions. But there are worries beyond fears of unrest. The growing share of income devoted to those at the top is leaving less and less to share among the rest of us.
 In one recent study, Robert Gordon and Ian Dew-Becker, economists at Northwestern University, found that half of the income gains derived from the increase in productivity from 1966 to 2001 accrued to the top 10 percent of earners. The wages of typical American workers, meanwhile, barely grew at all. 
 A shrinking share of the nation's economic spoils will not only reduce workers' stake in the current social setup; it will leave them with few resources for investment in economically crucial items like education. Rising inequality will also hamper teamwork. And it may ultimately destroy incentives. If the rewards of economic growth are monopolized by the very top earners, the rest of us may find little reason to make an effort. 
 Using a golf metaphor, Richard Freeman, an economist at Harvard and the National Bureau of Economic Research, said, ''If Tiger won everything, nobody would want to play.''
 AND if extreme income disparities produce anomie at the bottom, they can have even more perverse effects on the incentives at the top. For instance, those who benefit most from the current system will be tempted to help friendly politicians win elections to ensure that future economic arrangements still go their way. And, as has been shown by the run of shenanigans from the creative earnings management practiced by Enron and WorldCom a few years ago through the recently discovered backdating of options, some executives will simply cheat. 
 Mr. Freeman and Alexander Gelber, a Ph.D. candidate in economics at Harvard, recently ran an experiment to figure out how inequality affects workers' efforts. They gave three groups of participants puzzles to solve and rewarded them in different ways. 
 The first group, in which everyone received the same reward, regardless of performance, didn't solve many puzzles. The group in which the best maze solver got all of the rewards -- and no one else got anything -- didn't do too much better. The group that had a sliding scale of rewards, based on performance, did the best. 
 Yet the most interesting result of Mr. Freeman's experiment was not about maximizing output. In an unexpected twist, some subjects of the test found ways to rig the system. Few did so when the rewards were spread in an egalitarian way. But when the rewards gave participants an incentive to compete, they also provided a powerful inducement to cheat.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A New Gilded Age?''In 2000, the share of national income reaped by the top 1 percent of taxpayers reached 16.5 percent, its highest level since 1936, and higher than that of the next 4 percent of taxpayers combined.SHARE OF NATIONAL INCOME*Graph tracks share of national income for top 1% of taxpayers and next 4% of taxpayers since 1917.*Income excludes capital gains.(Source by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); STATISTICS (72%) Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); KB HOME CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%); KBH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (88%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



463 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Forest Grump

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILES. 
Jonathan Miles, a contributing editor for Men's Journal, writes frequently for the Book Review.

 BODY:
POSTCARDS FROM ED
 Dispatches and Salvos From 
 an American Iconoclast.
 Edited by David Petersen.
 Illustrated. 296 pp. Milkweed Editions. $24.95.
Edward Abbey (1927-89) wrote letters the way he wrote books. ''The shotgun method, I call it,'' he wrote to his friend and fellow novelist Alan Harrington, in which Abbey cranked out ''many, many, many books, in all directions, without taking much aim.'' In a note to Jimmy Carter after the 1976 presidential election, Abbey blithely suggested hiring Allen Ginsberg to remodel the Pentagon. To the editors of The Arizona Daily Star, ''so devoted to promoting mass immigration from Mexico,'' he suggested moving the editorial offices to South Nogales, in Mexico, ''where you can enjoy today the poverty, misery, squalor and gross injustice which will be the fate of America tomorrow.'' He was moved to write again, a month later, to justify ''the use of beautiful women in James Bond movies.'' He wrote to admonish The Tucson Weekly for an article that deemed cheerleaders ''stupid'' ('' 'Stupid'? They're cute, soft, bouncy, sweet, sexy, beautiful'') two months before chiding a reviewer in The Times Book Review for suggesting that Tom Wolfe's ''Bonfire of the Vanities'' lacked heart. That latter missive was itself a rebuke to a letter Abbey wrote to Bookletter, in 1977, in which he dismissed Wolfe as ''the leading pom-pom girl of American journalism'' -- an insult that, come to think of it, he also partly rectified with his defense of cheerleaders. 
 If few surprises are embedded in this trim selection of letters, edited by Abbey's pal David Petersen, it's because Abbey, on the page, was always Abbey: free ranging, cymbal crashing, an anarchist in mind as well as politics, encased throughout his life in an ever-shaken snow globe of contradictions, provocations, bathroom-wall jokes and fortissimo declarations. Who but Abbey could have written a novel, ''The Monkey Wrench Gang,'' that helped inspire a radical and deadly serious environmental movement (Earth First!) while containing a scene in which an argument about weather is settled with the line ''Rudolf the Red knows rain, dear''? That was part of Abbey's prickly charm, his Janus-faced appeal. One of the sublime pleasures of ''Desert Solitaire,'' his canonical memoir of working as a seasonal park ranger in eastern Utah, comes early on, when Abbey admits to stoning a rabbit to death for the sheer hell of it. For a generation accustomed to pious and priestly nature writing, this confession was welcome, a clear signal that Abbey was one of us: a fellow sinner in the temple of nature, part of the problem as well as the solution. Though allied in a common cause, Abbey provided the punk counterpoint to the reverent eco-hymns of writers like John Muir, Peter Matthiessen and Gary Snyder. ''Rhapsodies,'' he wrote to Edward Hoagland, ''put me to sleep.'' One's eyes can't glaze over while reading Abbey, because he's forever poking them -- sometimes for fun, sometimes for purpose.
 Fittingly, then, this is a book of thorns. As a correspondent, Edward Abbey was impulsive, unsparing, irascible, epigrammatic and, by turns, wonderfully long-winded or gruffly economical. (Much of his correspondence, as this book's title suggests, was on postcards.) For a writer whose oeuvre was so tilted toward autobiography and the physical world, Abbey rarely wrote about his exterior life -- what he was seeing and doing away from his desk. ''Went down through Cataract Canyon last week, a five-day boat trip,'' was about as newsy as he got about his wilderness ramblings, and the world outside his door earned mostly perfunctory nods. ''The raspberries are gone,'' he wrote Hoagland. ''The autumn flowers are in bloom ... and there's a chill of winter in the air after sundown. And so on. Musn't start sounding like Annie Dillard.'' In these letters, Abbey is visible mostly from the neck up, driven to correspond by issues and ideas, by indignation more than affection. Not a single love letter appears, a conspicuous absence for a man who married five times and whose published journals (also edited by Petersen) steam with carnal tension.
 How much of this is due to Abbey's guarding his intimacies, and how much due to Petersen's culling, is hard to gauge -- in his introduction, Petersen laments the loss of many personal letters to floods and other calamities, and writes that ''former lovers ... were chary to share their own private Ed'' -- but this much is clear: Of the 236 letters collected here, 75 are unsolicited salvos addressed to ''Dear Editor,'' ''Dear Sir'' and the like. ''Dear Sir,'' begins a typical note. ''This is a complaint.'' Even when doling out praise, Abbey frequently attached a dark lining to his silver clouds. As he wrote to a newspaper's editors, after a few kind words: ''But I must record a few carps.'' 
 That ''but,'' introducing carps, was also a trademark of his correspondence with literary colleagues. In a letter to John Gardner, he praised ''On Moral Fiction'' as a ''brilliant performance'' before bemoaning Gardner's cast of moral novelists: ''Bellow, Cheever, Updike, Irving and Salinger (that juvenile neurotic!), are the dullest and blandest of contemporary American writers.''
 A hot stream of such literary invective courses through these letters: Beckett produced ''hoked-up fakery''; Faulkner's depiction of the South was ''strangely incomplete, or misleading, or even false''; John McPhee could be ''utterly inane''; Updike, possessing the ''soul of a sycophant,'' wrote ''essentially trivial'' novels; Kerouac was ''a creepy adolescent bisexual who ... wrote stacks of complacently self-indulgent, onanistic books''; and Bob Dylan, who ''at the age of 30 ... still can't grow a man's beard,'' wrote ''bubblegum lyrics.'' By the same token, he was fierce in his championing of writers he admired, not only philosophical compatriots like Charles Bowden, Wallace Stegner, A. B. Guthrie Jr. and Wendell Berry, but also less expected contemporaries like Thomas Pynchon, Don DeLillo and Barry Hannah.
 Abbey's standards -- in literature as well as in ecological stewardship -- were often brutally high. ''Reality and real people are too subtle and complicated for anybody's typewriter, even Tolstoy's, even yours, even mine,'' he wrote to John Nichols. Moreover, he knew that his demand that literature invariably double as social criticism, his idea of the writer as front-line activist, was an exacting one. ''Art first? or the community (meaning all life, not only human life)? Or first one, then the other?'' he wrote Barry Lopez. ''Both, I say, in any case. Somehow.'' That ''somehow,'' with its implied sense of the difficulty of his ambitions, was key to Abbey's worldview. Though an idealist in the starkest sense, he was aware that the battle against growth, greed, environmental exploitation and ''technological tyranny'' was already half-lost, that he was Quixote vs. the windmills, which he slyly encapsulated in the tragicomic motto ''Keep it like it was.'' Somehow. 
 ''If most Americans eventually decide that they want to ... surround our national parks with an industrial slum of strip mines, power plants, trailerhouse cities ... there's not much that people like me can do about it except complain,'' he wrote to an interviewer. And complain Abbey did, as these letters amply demonstrate. Yet it was in his books -- most notably ''Desert Solitaire,'' ''The Monkey Wrench Gang,'' ''The Journey Home'' and ''The Fool's Progress'' (a bawdy grievance lodged against life itself) -- that Abbey took the complaint and transformed it into an art form, distilling beauty from bile. ''I know the earth,'' Pablo Neruda once wrote, ''and I am sad.'' That wasn't enough for Abbey. I know the earth, he roared, and I am mad.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Abbey with his shotgun and freshly bagged television. Photographed in Tucson, Ariz., 1986. (Photograph by Terrence Moore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); LITERATURE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); ECOTERRORISM (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); IMMIGRATION (55%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (70%) Jonathan Miles; David Petersen; Edward (1927-89) Abbey

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



464 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-19-06; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2100 words

HEADLINE: The Last 20th-Century Election?

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer, is at work on a book about the future of the Democratic Party.

 BODY:
Back in February 2002, some colleagues and I sat down to lunch with Tom Daschle, who was then the Democratic majority leader of the United States Senate. This was in the months just after the fall of the twin towers and the subsequent invasion of Afghanistan, when most of America -- and at least publicly, most Democrats in Washington -- seemed eager to support the president. On this day, however, Daschle, a mild South Dakotan whose idea of being confrontational is to interrupt without saying ''excuse me,'' seemed to have lost patience with George W. Bush and his entire administration. He talked with very little prompting about the way the president and his political adviser, Karl Rove, refused to compromise on legislation, bullied their own party's senators and ignored leaders of the opposition. Daschle said he hardly ever spoke to anyone at the White House. I asked him whether he thought this kind of arrogance would eventually come back to hurt Bush's presidency.
''I'd like to think so,'' Daschle said, ''but I just don't know.'' 
 I put the question to him another way: in all his years in politics, I asked, had he ever seen anyone act so imperiously and not eventually lose power as a result? Daschle shook his head. ''No,'' he said. ''I never have.''
 I have found myself recalling that exchange many times since, and it was very much on my mind as I stood in the offices of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee on election night, watching young aides with markers erase and replace the latest election numbers on a white board, effectively wiping away what remained of Bush's influence in Washington. The next day, I called Daschle at his law office and reminded him of our conversation. ''No doubt about it,'' he said. ''I think the American people got really tired and fatigued with the arrogance and style of this administration. Someone told me early in my career: 'If you want to get elected, learn to speak. If you want to stay elected, learn to listen.' ''
 This, perhaps, was the larger lesson of an election that drastically reshuffled the existing order in Washington. The war in Iraq had a lot to do with the fall of the Republican majority. Congressional corruption, epitomized by the Republican lobbying scandal and the Mark Foley affair, played a significant role, too. And voters continue to feel anxious about an economy that generates higher returns for shareholders and less opportunity for everyone else. But ruling parties and presidencies are almost never felled by issues alone. Rather, it is the more general perception of a creeping chaos -- the sense that leaders no longer have a firm grasp on events or the credibility to unite disparate constituencies -- that causes political powers to come undone. It wasn't inflation or hostages that destroyed Jimmy Carter's presidency; it was the realization that he had grown too isolated and too besieged to see his way clear of either crisis.
 Similarly, exit polls showed that about 37 percent of the voters who cast their votes against Republican candidates did so as a protest against Bush personally. Voters seemed to conclude that after six years of ''staying the course'' with unbendable will, while showering even the most benign critics with contempt and derision, Bush and his Congressional allies had simply lost the capacity to fix their own mistakes. More interested in being right than in being reasonable, they seemed unable to respond to a range of emerging threats, from a hurricane on the gulf coast to an underground explosion on the Korean Peninsula. When the president finally cut loose his defense secretary on the day after the election, he seemed at last to have embraced some small measure of humility -- and yet it came too late, and perhaps too defiantly, to restore much of the confidence he had squandered.
 ''They were totally obstinate in the end,'' John Kasich, one of the leaders of the 1994 Republican revolution, told me after the election. ''To keep going around and saying that everything's great and how it's all going well in Iraq was ridiculous. There's such a thing as being firm, and then there's such a thing as ignoring reality.''
 If this election was about the cost of arrogance, though, then it should also be viewed as a vindication of the much-maligned American voter. Since Bush's disputed victory in 2000, many liberals have been increasingly brazen about their disdain for the rural and religious voters; one popular e-mail message, which landed in thousands of Democratic in-boxes in the days after the 2004 election, separated North America into ''The United States of Canada'' and ''Jesusland.'' The populist author Thomas Frank won widespread praise for his thesis that unsophisticated rural types had been manipulated into voting ''against their economic self-interest,'' while the celebrated linguist George Lakoff posited that conservatives had rewired the brain synapses in these unsuspecting voters. Two eminent liberal political scientists, Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson, wrote a more scholarly book, arguing that Bush could govern as an extremist without paying a price, because Republicans had gamed the electoral system and deceived voters. 
 But this election, in which conservative incumbents in states like Kentucky and Indiana went down to defeat, should discredit such alarmist (and elitist) theories. As it happened, despite all these neurological and structural impediments, ordinary voters proved perfectly capable of recognizing failed governance when they saw it, and seemed plenty capable of defending their own interests. 
 Of course, when moderate Americans finally did revolt, even leading Democrats had to admit that the election had everything to do with Republican failures and almost nothing to do with them. They had avoided offering new ideas, fearing that bold proposals on health care or retirement security might have taken the focus away from Republican failures. This was probably a smart electoral tactic -- at least it seems that way now -- but it comes with a cost; having recaptured Washington, Democrats now have only vague slogans (''a new direction'') around which to build a governing agenda. As Andrei Cherny and Kenneth Baer, editors of the new policy journal Democracy, warned in the days after the election: ''Democrats had a good day. To have a great decade, they need an agenda that captures the public imagination and responds to the looming challenges facing the country.''
 The party's leaders in Congress immediately vowed to put together just such an agenda, and they promised to work with Bush and the Republicans to implement it. There will be significant obstacles to doing that, however, and not only because the new Democratic caucus, as many observers have noted, is ideologically disparate. For one thing, the party's infrastructure has changed substantially since Democrats last held power. Twelve years ago, the Democratic Party was still captive to a series of single-issue interest groups -- big labor, the environmental lobby, civil rights groups -- that pressured the party to pursue their own parochial agendas, making it difficult to challenge some liberal orthodoxies. These groups still matter on Capitol Hill, of course, but since Bush's election they have been giving way to a new array of powerful actors: MoveOn.org, liberal philanthropists, crusading bloggers. These new forces don't care so much about litmus-test policies, but they are adamant about confronting the president. The influence of the netroots, as the growing Web-based Democrats have come to be called, is likely to stifle any inclination toward compromise or creativity, making it difficult for Democrats to transition from an opposition party to a governing one. Thoughtful and dynamic leadership, after all, requires a willingness to negotiate and a tolerance for dissent -- which is the main reason that Republicans now find themselves glumly packing boxes rather than gleefully packing the courts.
 Then there is the 2008 presidential season, which began within hours of the election (Iowa's Democratic governor, Tom Vilsack, jumped into the race before the week was out), and which will most likely act as a disincentive for either party to give ground on the issues that divide them. To a rare degree, the midterm elections appear to have indirectly reshaped the presidential landscapes of both parties. On the Republican side, two formerly top-tier candidates -- George Allen, the Virginia senator who lost his seat, and Bill Frist, the soon-to-be-retired Senate leader who lost his majority -- now seem irreparably damaged. The party's presumed frontrunner, John McCain, also faces a more troublesome environment, given his strong support for a war that many of his moderate supporters clearly oppose. On the Democratic side, the elections dealt a blow to John Kerry -- his mangled joke about Bush's intellect would have been, even had he delivered it perfectly, inexcusably smug -- while perhaps opening the door further for Al Gore, whose defiant, antiwar fervor would seem well suited to the moment.
 Depending on how you interpret the elections' results, they may also boost the prospects for some younger candidate who can credibly claim distance from the establishment of both parties -- a candidate much like Barack Obama. Washington pundits still persist in portraying our recent elections as a series of waves, alternately sweeping in the proponents of a blue team or a red team; by this theory, first came the Republican surge 12 years ago, and now comes the Democratic countersurge. But in fact, these two waves are more accurately viewed as part of the same continuous seismic disturbance: the growing frustration of voters with the Washington crowd of both parties, who seem stuck in the same ideological debate they were having in 1975, while the rest of the country struggles mightily with the emerging economic and international threats of 2006. After the midterms, that tidal resentment has now washed away both of our old governing philosophies: the expansive and often misguided liberalism that dominated American politics up through the 1970s, as well as the impractical, mean-spirited brand of conservatism that rose up in reaction to it. 
 It may be, then, that we have just witnessed the last big election of the 20th century; the question now is what kind of different, more relevant ideologies might rise from the ruins. Or, as Simon Rosenberg, the Democratic strategist, recently put it in making much the same argument, ''Like two heavyweight boxers stumbling into the 15th round of a championship fight, the two great ideologies of the 20th century stumble, exhausted, tattered and weakened, into a very dynamic and challenging 21st century.'' The era of baby-boomer politics -- with its culture wars, its racial subtext, its archaic divisions between hawks and doves and between big government and no government at all -- is coming to a merciful close. Our elections may become increasingly generational rather than ideological -- and not a moment too soon. 
 This is why the new Democratic majority in Washington may fare no better in addressing the nation's modern preoccupations than the Republican majority that preceded it. At week's end, Democrats were preparing to name two 66-year-olds, Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi, as Senate majority leader and House speaker. In the House, Pelosi will be supported by new committee chairmen including longtime liberals like Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Charles Rangel of New York. They are, most of them, honorable public servants, warriors steeped in the battles of the last century. But the party remains reluctant to make room for its next generation, a pragmatic and talented group -- led, perhaps, by Rahm Emanuel, the chief strategist behind the House elections -- that includes many lesser-known names: Artur Davis of Alabama, Adam Smith of Washington, Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, Stephanie Herseth of South Dakota, Anthony Weiner of New York, Chris van Hollen of Maryland, Adam Schiff of California, Tim Ryan of Ohio. It might be too much to expect the paragons of Democratic politics to look to younger members when the reins of power are once again within their grasp. But the party that controls the next era of American politics may well be the one whose long-serving leaders can eventually summon the wisdom to step out of the way.

 Percent affiliating with each party, by average for each decade. Note: ''other'' and ''not sure'' responses excluded. Source: The Harris poll (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Stephen Crowley)Chart: ''SHIFTING LOYALTIES ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); CORRUPTION (60%); SCANDALS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (56%) Matt Bai; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



465 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Envisioning U.S. Talks With Iran And Syria

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; David E. Sanger contributed reporting for this article from Hanoi, Vietnam, where he is traveling with President Bush.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
IN Washington these days, an idea the White House once treated as anathema is suddenly gaining currency: to sit down and talk directly to Iran and Syria. 
 Tony Blair is recommending it. The Iraq Study Group headed by James Baker and Lee Hamilton may do so, too. With Iran intent on pursuing its nuclear program and with Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia unable to stabilize the region, there may be no other choice.
But if the White House chose to talk directly to Iran and Syria, what would those two want, and what possible areas of agreement could there be?
 At the core of any negotiation would be a basic demand: Iran and Syria want some assurance that their regimes are going to survive. This may seem surprising, since both have been emboldened by American troubles in Iraq and by their ally Hezbollah's success against Israel in Lebanon. And both have seemed to do everything they can to provoke the United States. But political analysts and diplomats say Iran's and Syria's leaders still share a paramount fear that their regimes are vulnerable to the unequaled economic and military might of the United States, strained as it is. 
 The fears have a basis in history. Iran could not defeat Saddam Hussein's army in eight years of war, then watched twice as American tanks rolled up Iraq's forces in short campaigns. The post-conquest American difficulties there may have emboldened Iran's leaders, but the two invasions remain a lesson. Now Iran fears the prospect of painful economic sanctions, at American urging, because it will not halt its nuclear program.
 Syria's leaders are said to worry that an international investigation of the assassination of a top Lebanese politician will reach high into the Syrian government and shake the regime.
 ''The main concern for Iran is that it does not want to change the current power structure in the country,'' said Ahmad Zeidabadi, a political analyst in Tehran. ''It will resist any change.''
 So far, the Bush administration has said that it wants to solve the Iranian nuclear confrontation ''diplomatically'' and that Syria chose the wrong protector when it threw itself in with Iran's mullahs. But it has never offered up the security assurances it has periodically, if half-heartedly, given North Korea. And Iran and Syria have noticed.
 Nevertheless, even if no grand bargain on Iran's nuclear ambitions and role throughout the Middle East is in the making, could there be a moment when both Iran and Syria might talk seriously with the United States about a smaller range of issues? 
 While Iran's leaders have shown no sign of dropping their antagonism toward the United States and Israel, they have hinted at willingness to help stabilize Iraq, and perhaps Afghanistan. After all, preventing a complete disintegration of Iraq would allay Iranian concern that anarchy could one day cross the border and, perhaps, incite Iran's own ethnic minorities (Kurds, for example). Similarly, holding back Afghanistan's Taliban would block the re-emergence of an old Sunni enemy that considers Shiites apostates. 
 In exchange for cooperation in Afghanistan, of course, the Iranians might expect the United States to abandon what they see as efforts to interfere in their domestic affairs. Those include American projects that aim to promote Iranian democracy (but that Iranian officials say foster instability), as well as the prospect of sanctions as punishment for Iran's nuclear program. 
 Syria feels more vulnerable than Iran now, due to both domestic and international politics and the reality that its slim reserves of oil will soon run dry. President Bashar al-Assad has drawn closer to Iran since being isolated by Washington and its Arab allies. But Syria does not want its confrontation with the West to bring it more isolation and humiliation, or a loss of legitimacy at home. 
 This could happen as a result of a continuing investigation into the murder nearly two years ago of the former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri. A United Nations investigation has implicated Syrian officials, and the Security Council has moved to form a tribunal. That scares the Syrians, and they are eager to block its inception. 
 ''Syrians think that the U.S. can just call up the U.N. and stop it,'' said Andrew Tabler, a consulting editor for Syria Today magazine in Damascus. ''That's not going to happen. However, where some room to maneuver does exist is over how high up the food chain the investigation will go. This is what worries Syria because this is the primary place it is vulnerable.''
 Recently, political analysts say, Syria has shown a degree of willingness to help stabilize the conflict in Gaza -- something the United States wants -- and its officials have repeatedly said the government is willing to hold peace talks with Israel. 
 ''Syria is quite realistic, if proud and stubborn,'' said Joshua Landis, an assistant professor of Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Oklahoma. ''It will accept serious American offers and insist that the problems be dealt with comprehensively.'' 
 Focusing on Iraq, Afghanistan and the Israel-Palestinian conflict might be a realistic way for the United States to navigate with Iran and Syria. That is true partly because the Iranians and Syrians both understand, no matter how reluctant they are to express it publicly, that the United States can help them stabilize their regimes and help settle regional problems. ''You can't have a deal in the Middle East without the Americans, regardless of the judgment we carry,'' said an Arab diplomat who spoke on the condition his name and nationality not be identified because of the sensitive nature of the topic.
 But bolstering those regimes is a lot to ask of the United States. 
 Why, in fact, do anything to boost the prestige of the Iranian mullahs or the Assad regime, when that would also risk colliding with the aims of America's Mideast allies? When Americans agreed to hold talks with Iran about Iraq -- talks that never went forward -- officials in Egypt were furious because it confirmed their own fears that Iraq was now in Iran's orbit, and not their own. 
 The administration's stated position has been that it will join negotiations with Iran if Iran first suspends the enrichment of uranium. But the Iranians have rejected any conditions on the talks. There are also few contacts with the Syrians, with whom the United States still has diplomatic relations. 
 The president's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, says that talking alone ''is not a strategy,'' and that when it comes to talking about stabilizing Iraq, the administration must be sure the Iranians and Syrians really feel it is necessary to do so. But that may not happen soon: As long as the violence stays inside Iraq, it mainly keeps the Americans pinned down and off balance. 
 In any event, Mr. Hadley said last week, America would never trade away its determination to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon in return for help in Iraq.
 Nevertheless, diplomatic analysts in Lebanon suggest that this is a good time to recognize that differences between Iran's and Syria's positions that could, perhaps, be played off against each other.
 Take the case of Hezbollah. 
 While Iran feels that the perceived victory of Hezbollah over Israel in the summer war boosted its own prestige, it does not want Hezbollah's rise to plunge Lebanon into chaos; instead, it wants Hezbollah to consolidate power and help spread Shiite influence and Iranian ideology. Syria, on the other hand, appears to want chaos in Lebanon, an environment that could stymie the Hariri murder investigation. 
 In the end, though, such differences could count for little in the face of the far larger antagonisms that have so far kept any talks, even over small issues, from starting. 
 One factor is Iran's reluctance to compromise on ideological issues. Its leaders define Iran's revolutionary character largely as anti-American and anti-Israeli, while the United States is seeking to slow the spread of revolutionary Islam. 
 ''The U.S. and Iran are pursuing different policies in the region,'' Mr. Zeidabadi said. ''They might have some common interests. But what is obvious is that Iran considers its survival in spreading a kind of radical ideological Islam in the region which the U.S. says is its enemy.''
 And whatever their differences with each other, both Syria and Iran distrust the United States far more. 
 ''A lot has to happen first before we see a grand bargain,'' Mr. Tabler said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Icons -- Syria and Iran feel emboldened
 their leaders (left and center) appeared with Hezbollah's on a poster for sale in Damascus last June. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMIES (74%); POLITICS (72%); HEZBOLLAH (68%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); LEBANON (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAN (78%) Iran; Syria; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



466 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Building Prosperity

BYLINE: By Roland Lewis. 
Roland Lewis is executive director of Habitat for Humanity-N.Y.C. and co-chairman of Housing First!

 BODY:
GAZING from his office in Albany in January, Gov. Eliot Spitzer will look out over two distinct states. Downstate, including New York City and the surrounding suburbs, is enjoying the best of times. Real estate and businesses are booming from Westchester to Long Island, population continues to grow, and the unemployment rate in New York City dipped below the national rate in September and hit 4.1 percent in October, its lowest level in 30 years. Downstate is reaping the rewards of sustained economic growth. 
 Upstate is another story. Amid an unrelenting economic downturn, towns and cities are crumbling, and residents are fleeing in search of steady jobs. The economic challenges facing the two regions of the state differ radically. But if Mr. Spitzer looks back, he will see a strong resemblance between the upstate of today and the downstate of yesteryear. He may also see the seeds of renewal. 
In the mid-1970s, New York City was in deep fiscal trouble. Businesses were pulling up stakes and taking their jobs and taxes with them, middle-class people were moving away in droves, buildings were abandoned, neighborhoods were decaying. 
 That's when a bold new chief executive stepped in. Like Eliot Spitzer, Mayor Ed Koch, elected in 1977, faced tough economic challenges. He wisely pursued a course that helped end the fiscal crisis, rebuild vibrant neighborhoods and pave the way to prosperity for New York City and its suburbs. His policy: leveraging the economic power of thousands of abandoned buildings and parcels of vacant land. 
 The Koch administration created the largest affordable housing program in city history, investing $5.1 billion to create 150,000 homes. We are enjoying the results today, with revitalized neighborhoods flourishing from East Tremont to East New York. That renaissance helped fuel a regional economy that is the largest and most vibrant in the nation. 
 That's a key lesson for Mr. Spitzer: Housing development begets economic development. 
 When dollars flow into the construction trades, their economic benefits are multiplied many times over as construction drives up the demand for goods and services. In turn, new homeowners require additional goods and services, fostering still more business growth. Public revenue is generated throughout, with income taxes, property taxes and sales taxes all feeding public coffers.
 In a study released this year, the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University found that subsidized housing investments lead to tax revenue in excess of the original subsidies. Indeed, subsidies ''aimed at distressed urban properties can deliver significant benefits,'' the study said. ''Thus, cities may be able to use housing subsidies to serve two purposes -- to create new, affordable housing units for qualified recipients and to revitalize urban neighborhoods.''
 Other experts agree that housing development spurs economic gains. Nationally, a $5 billion investment in housing would directly create 184,300 jobs and almost $5 billion in wages, according to a 2001 report by the Center for Community Change, which based its findings on a federal Department of Commerce model. 
 Similarly, the National Association of Home Builders estimates that building 100 single-family homes in a typical metropolitan area will generate, in its first year, $16 million in local income and $1.8 million in taxes and government revenue like permits and fees. In addition, such construction would create 284 jobs in year one.
 Eliot Spitzer has a unique opportunity to create a substantial housing development program that will return New York State to the best of times. This is an initiative that will work in every corner of the Empire State. 
 Decent housing for working New Yorkers is desperately needed everywhere. New York City has nearly 10,000 homeless families living in shelters. On Long Island, average rent for a two-bedroom apartment exceeds the monthly income of many seeking apartments.
 Upstate, housing development will lead to economic revival. Downstate, by providing significant affordable housing, the Spitzer administration can help alleviate an overheated market across the metropolitan region, one that continues to squeeze out low-income New Yorkers and even the working and middle classes. 
 Mr. Spitzer should use New York's capital to create a community development legacy that will benefit all New Yorkers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (86%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SALES TAX (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Housing

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Edward I Koch; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Roland Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



467 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: It's Not the Democrats Who Are Divided

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
ELECTIONS may come and go, but Washington remains incorrigible. Not even voters delivering a clear message can topple the town's conventional wisdom once it has been set in the stone of punditry.
 Right now the capital is entranced by a fictional story line about the Democrats. As this narrative goes, the party's sweep of Congress was more or less an accident. The victory had little to do with the Democrats' actual beliefs and was instead solely the result of President Bush's unpopularity and a cunning backroom stunt by the campaign Machiavellis, Chuck Schumer and Rahm Emanuel, to enlist a smattering of ''conservative'' candidates to run in red states. In this retelling of the 2006 election, the signature race took place in Montana, where the victor was a gun-toting farmer with a flattop haircut: i.e., a Democrat in Republican drag. And now the party is deeply divided as its old liberals and new conservatives converge on Capitol Hill to slug it out. 
The only problem with this version of events is that it's not true. The overwhelming majority of the Democratic winners, including Jon Tester of Montana, are to the left of most Republicans, whether on economic policy or abortion. For all of the hyperventilation devoted to the Steny Hoyer-John Murtha bout for the House leadership, the final count was lopsided next to the one-vote margin in the G.O.P. Senate intramural that yielded that paragon of ''unity,'' Trent Lott. But the most telling barometer is the election's defining issue: there is far more unanimity among Democrats about Iraq than there is among Republicans. Disengaging America from that war is what the country voted for overwhelmingly on Nov. 7, and that's what the Democrats almost uniformly promised to speed up, whatever their vague, often inchoate notions about how to do it. 
 Even before they officially take over, the Democrats are trying to deliver on this pledge. Carl Levin and Joe Biden, among the party's leaders in thinking through a new Iraq policy, are gravitating toward a long-gestating centrist exit strategy: a phased withdrawal starting in four to six months; a loosely federal Iraqi government that would ratify the de facto separation of the Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds and fairly allocate the oil spoils; and diplomacy, diplomacy, diplomacy to engage Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria, in securing some kind of peace. 
 None of these ideas are radical, novel or much removed from what James Baker's Iraq Study Group is expected to come up with. All are debatable and all could fail. At this late date, only triage is an option, not ''victory.'' There's no panacea to end the civil war that four years of American bumbling have wrought. But the one truly serious story to come out of the election -- far more significant than the Washington chatter about ''divided Democrats'' -- is that the president has no intention of changing his policy on Iraq or anything else one iota. 
 Already we are seeing conclusive evidence that the White House's post-thumpin' blather about bipartisanship is worth as little as the ''uniter, not a divider'' bunk of the past. The tip-off came last week when Mr. Bush renominated a roster of choices for the federal appeals court that he knew faced certain rejection by Democrats. Why? To deliver a message to the entire Senate consonant with the unprintable greeting Dick Cheney once bestowed on Patrick Leahy, the senator from Vermont. That message was seconded by Tony Snow on Monday when David Gregory of NBC News asked him for a response to the Democrats' Iraq proposals. The press secretary belittled them as ''nonspecific'' and then tried to deflect the matter entirely by snickering at Mr. Gregory's follow-up questions. 
 Don Imus has been rerunning the video ever since, and with good reason. The laughing-while-Baghdad-burns intransigence of the White House makes your blood run cold. The day after Mr. Snow ridiculed alternative policies for Iraq, six American soldiers were killed. It was on that day as well that militia assailants stormed the education ministry in Baghdad in broad daylight, effortlessly carrying out a mass abduction of as many as 150 government officials in some 15 minutes. Given that those kidnappers were probably in cahoots with a faction of the very government they were terrorizing, it would be hard to come up with a more alarming snapshot of those ''conditions on the ground'' the president keeps talking about: utter chaos, with American troops in the middle, risking their lives to defend which faction, exactly? 
 Yet here was what Mr. Snow had to say about the war in this same press briefing: ''We are winning, but on the other hand, we have not won'' and ''Our commitment is to get to the point where we achieve victory.'' If that's the specificity the White House offers to counter the Democrats' ''nonspecific'' ideas about Iraq, bring back Donald Rumsfeld. 
 Mr. Snow's performance was echoed by the more sober but equally nonsensical testimony of Gen. John Abizaid, our chief commander in the Middle East, before the Senate Armed Services Committee less than 48 hours later. It was deja stay-the-course all over again. The general is not for withdrawing American troops or, as John McCain would prefer, adding them. (General Abizaid delicately pointed out to Mr. McCain that a sustainable supply of new American troops is in any case ''simply not something that we have right now''; the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri al-Maliki, doesn't want them even if we did.) The general's hope instead is for more Iraqi troops, even though, as he conceded, we still don't have any such forces operating ''completely independently'' of their embedded American advisers. In other words: We are still, so many sacrifices later, waiting for the Iraqis to stand up so we can stand down.
 An even more telling admission was to follow. ''General Abizaid,'' Jack Reed of Rhode Island asked, ''how much time do you think we have to bring down the level of violence in Baghdad before we reach some type of tipping point where it accelerates beyond the control of even the Iraqi government?'' After some hemming and hawing came a specific answer: ''Four to six months.'' Thus did our commander in Iraq provide the perfect exit ramp into the Democrats' exit strategy, whether intentionally or not: the Iraqis must stand up by exactly the same deadline that Mr. Levin proposed for the start of a phased withdrawal.
 Everyone outside of the Bush bunker knows that's where we're heading. As the retired Gen. Barry McCaffrey told Keith Olbermann last week, ''The American people have walked away from the war.'' The general predicted, as many in Washington have, that the Baker commission, serving as a surrogate Papa Bush, would give the White House the ''intellectual orchestration'' to label the withdrawal ''getting out with honor.'' But might this Beltway story line, too, be wrong? Everything in the president's behavior since the election, including his remarkably naive pronouncements in Vietnam, suggests that he will refuse to catch the political lifeline that Mr. Baker might toss him. Mr. Bush seems more likely instead to use American blood and money to double down on his quixotic notion of ''victory'' to the end. Not for nothing has he been communing with Henry Kissinger.
 So what then? A Democratic Congress can kill judicial appointments but cannot mandate foreign policy. The only veto it can exercise is to cut off the war's funding, political suicide that the Congressional leadership has rightly ruled out. The plain reality is that the victorious Democrats, united in opposition to the war and uniting around a program for quitting it, have done pretty much all they can do. Republican leaders must join in to seal the deal.
 Don't count Mr. McCain among them. His call for more troops even when there are no more troops is about presidential politics, a dodge that allows him to argue in perpetuity that we never would have lost Iraq if only he had been heeded from the start. True or not, that gets America nowhere now. Look instead to two other Republican military veterans in the Senate, one who is not running for president and one who yet might. The first is John Warner, who said a month before the election that he would seek an overhaul of Iraq policy in 60 to 90 days if there was no progress. The second is Chuck Hagel, who has been prescient about the war's potential pitfalls since 2002 and started floating exit strategies parallel to the Levin-Biden track last summer. 
 There's an incentive for other Republicans to join them in advancing the endgame. Even if the Democrats self-destructively descend into their own Abramoff-style scandals -- Mr. Murtha referred to House ethics reforms as ''total crap'' -- that may not be enough to save the Republicans if they're still staring down the bloody barrel of their Iraq fiasco in 2008.
 But most of all, disengagement from Iraq is the patriotic thing to do. Diverting as ''divided Democrats'' has been, it's escapist entertainment. The Washington story that will matter most going forward is the fate of the divided Republicans. Only if they heroically come together can the country be saved from a president who, for all his professed pipe dreams about democracy in the Middle East, refuses to surrender to democracy's verdict at home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Elections

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); STENY HOYER (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%); JOE BIDEN (59%); FRANK RICH (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); TRENT LOTT (56%); JOHN P MURTHA (56%); JON TESTER (56%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



468 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Building Prosperity

BYLINE: By Roland Lewis. 
Roland Lewis is executive director of Habitat for Humanity-N.Y.C. and co-chairman of Housing First!

 BODY:
GAZING from his office in Albany in January, Gov. Eliot Spitzer will look out over two distinct states. Downstate, including New York City and the surrounding suburbs, is enjoying the best of times. Real estate and businesses are booming from Westchester to Long Island, population continues to grow, and the unemployment rate in New York City dipped below the national rate in September to 4.5 percent, its lowest level since 1988. Downstate is reaping the rewards of sustained economic growth. 
 Upstate is another story. Amid an unrelenting economic downturn, towns and cities are crumbling, and residents are fleeing in search of steady jobs. 
The economic challenges facing the two regions of the state differ radically. But if Mr. Spitzer looks back, he will see a strong resemblance between the upstate of today and the downstate of yesteryear. He may also see the seeds of renewal. 
 In the mid-1970s, New York City was in deep fiscal trouble. Businesses were pulling up stakes and taking their jobs and taxes with them, middle-class people were moving away in droves, buildings were abandoned, neighborhoods were decaying. 
 That's when a bold new chief executive stepped in. Like Eliot Spitzer, Mayor Ed Koch, first elected in 1977, faced tough economic challenges. He wisely pursued a course that helped end the fiscal crisis, rebuild vibrant neighborhoods and pave the way to prosperity for New York City and its suburbs. His policy: leveraging the economic power of thousands of abandoned buildings and parcels of vacant land. 
 The Koch administration created the largest affordable housing program in city history, investing $5.1 billion to create 150,000 homes. We are enjoying the results today, with revitalized neighborhoods flourishing from East Tremont to East New York. That renaissance helped fuel a regional economy that is the largest and most vibrant in the nation. 
 That's a key lesson for Mr. Spitzer: Housing development begets economic development. 
 When dollars flow into the construction trades, their economic benefits are multiplied many times over as construction drives up the demand for goods and services. In turn, new homeowners require additional goods and services, fostering still more business growth. Public revenue is generated throughout, with income taxes, property taxes and sales taxes all feeding public coffers.
 In a study earlier this year, the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University found that subsidized housing investments lead to tax revenue in excess of the original subsidies. Subsidies ''aimed at distressed urban properties can deliver significant benefits to the surrounding community,'' the study said. ''Thus, cities may be able to use housing subsidies to serve two purposes -- to create new, affordable housing units for qualified recipients and to revitalize urban neighborhoods.''
 Other experts agree that housing development spurs big-ticket economic gains. Nationally, a $5 billion investment in housing would directly create 184,300 jobs and almost $5 billion in wages, according to a 2001 report by the Center for Community Change, which based its findings on a federal Department of Commerce model. 
 Similarly, the National Association of Home Builders estimates that building 100 single-family homes in a typical metropolitan area will generate, in its first year, $16 million in local income and $1.8 million in taxes and government revenue like permits and fees. In addition, such construction would create 284 jobs in year one.
 Eliot Spitzer has a unique opportunity to create a substantial housing development program that will return New York State to the best of times. This is an initiative that will work in every corner of the Empire State. 
 Decent housing affordable to working New Yorkers is desperately needed everywhere. New York City has nearly 10,000 homeless families living in shelters. On Long Island, average rent for a two-bedroom apartment exceeds the monthly income of many renters.
 Upstate, housing development will lead to economic revival. Downstate, by providing significant affordable housing, the Spitzer administration can help alleviate an overheated market across the metropolitan region, one that continues to squeeze out low-income New Yorkers and even the working and middle classes. 
 Mr. Spitzer should use New York's capital to create a community development legacy that will benefit all New Yorkers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (86%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SALES TAX (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Housing

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Roland Lewis; Edward I Koch; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



469 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2835 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Weekend: From Doughnuts to Dancing

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:

Saturday

9 a.m.: Time to Eat the Doughnuts
 The line that ran from the counter inside Coffee An' Donut out to the sidewalk of Main Street in Westport on a chilly Saturday morning was telling enough. Diane Karle edged her way out the door, stood on the sidewalk and waited. Moments later, a Coffee An' Donut employee, Mike Limberis, edged his way past to deliver Ms. Karle's coffee to her. It was counter service, way beyond the counter.
''It's my favorite spot,'' Ms. Karle said, cupping her hands around the container. ''Except that it's so crowded.''
 That's because just about everybody in Westport, and, from the looks of the line, everyone within driving distance, knows about Coffee An' Donut. Customers have included Bill and Hillary Clinton, Al Gore, Joseph I. Lieberman and Diane Farrell, whose photos are plastered all over the walls along with the business's owner, George Vlandis. He has managed to jam the customers, the photos, the U-shaped counter and snugly positioned tables into a spot not much bigger than about 30 by 40 feet, making for an intimacy that makes everyone your friend. 
 ''So many communities have been pulled apart by the malls,'' said Mary Ruggiero of Westport, who became a regular several years ago when her Westport friend Elisabeth Rose introduced her to Coffee An' Donut. ''But here you can see plenty of local people.''
 The pair had stopped by this day for coffee and breakfast. Despite the name, its cake doughnuts are not the sole menu items. It serves French toast, pancakes and omelets, but the line out front has little to do with the eggs and everything to do with the doughnuts. The restaurant makes its own, including a chocolate doughnut so good that it should probably have a line of its own. ''There just aren't a lot of places like this anymore,'' Ms. Ruggiero said.
 Coffee An' Donut, 343 Main Street, Westport, (203) 227-3808.

10 a.m.: The Right Cut
 The modern butcher typically works behind glass partitions or heavy metal doors chopping and grinding meats, putting them on display, then receding into oblivion. But at Bliss Market in Wethersfield, the regulars know Nick DeFrino, who stood behind the meat counter on a recent Saturday in much the same way he has for the last 40 years, handing out almost as much kidding abuse as he does meats and fish.
 What does Mr. DeFrino like most about being a butcher? ''I don't like any of it,'' he said, grinning.
 Wayne Martin, an everyday customer who was standing at the counter, laughed at that answer. ''After getting to know these people for 25 years, they're friends and neighbors,'' Mr. Martin said. ''Unfortunately we have to deal with people like this. But where else can you come in and get this kind of abuse?''
 Mr. DeFrino's son, John DeFrino, now runs the store. A gap-toothed gourmand, the younger Mr. DeFrino has come up with creations that now rival his father's in popularity. Besides its reputation for high-quality meats and trimming to order, Bliss sells prepared foods. It has soups, breads, meatballs, enchiladas, champagne-grilled salmon, coconut-crusted tilapia with mango Mandarin sauce, twice-baked potatoes, and macaroni and cheese.
 ''I used to walk up here with my grandmother,'' said Lisa Howe of West Chester, Pa., who grew up in Wethersfield and whose parents still live there. ''And now my kids walk up here with my dad.''
 Bliss Market, 675 Wolcott Hill Road, Wethersfield, (860) 529-4419.

11 a.m.: Nuts, Bolts, Neighbors
 ''Do you have anything for a Delta faucet?'' a customer asks a small army of red-shirted employees at Katz Ace Hardware in Glastonbury on a crowded Saturday morning. ''Aisle 16,'' says one of the red shirts, as she comes around the counter to trail him. Few customers who walk into Katz's walk through alone. 
 ''I paint my deck every year, and every year I come in here and the guy knows what I want,'' said Raul Pereda of Glastonbury, as he looked through light bulbs. Chris Livesey, another employee, hustled up to him and presented Mr. Pereda with the bulb he was looking for.
 ''It almost feels like I'm walking into my garage or basement,'' Mr. Pereda said. ''I can find what I want without having to walk a mile through a home improvement store.''
 In another aisle, several men, including three employees, were on their knees going through hundreds of small drawers with hex nuts, hex keys, screws, washers and other pieces of metal that keep the world standing straight. Michael Lombardi of Marlborough held his 18-month-old son, C.J., in one arm while he went through the drawers looking for parts for his snowblower. Mr. Lombardi, a partner in an architectural engineering firm, designs many big-box home improvement stores.
 ''Those stores don't have the people to help you out,'' he said. ''The service is great here.'' 
 Katz Hardware is a decades-old presence in Glastonbury, a place where a customer can walk in with an outdated screw and pay a few cents to have it duplicated, discuss the merits of particular grass seeds, and rent a leaf blower, with detailed instructions and tips free. 
 ''It's a people place,'' said Warner Brush, who has worked at the store full time for the past six years. ''Lots of young kids, including my son, got their start here, and once they leave this place it's an experience they never forget. It's the best job in town for the kids.''
 Katz Ace Hardware, 2687 Main Street, Glastonbury, (860) 633-3551.

Noon: A Little Quiet
 Those who want conversation with their coffee will need to leave the Palm Pilot behind, close the laptop and turn off the cellphone. Only then will Lulu let them in. 
 On a quiet Saturday afternoon in November, coffee drinkers were stopping by Lulu, a European Coffeehouse, to read a newspaper, sit at the two window seats that make up the majority of the seating, and talk to the owner, Louise de Carrone, better known as Lulu. She opened the cafe in 1991, a single mother who had received a pink slip from a receptionist job the same day she spotted the ''For Rent'' sign on Cottage Street in New Haven and signed a lease for a different kind of work. 
 She opens in the morning for pastries, McCann's Irish oatmeal, coffee and tea, and into the afternoon serves lunch, including cheese melts, tuna salads, and bagels with salmon. This particular Saturday, she was sitting next to Barry Berman of New Haven, a regular who is the founder and president of the Connecticut Radio Network.
 ''I come here because this is the real essence of what I think a neighborhood coffee place should be,'' Mr. Berman said. ''A Pulitzer Prize winner will be debating a Nobel Prize winner on any given day here. People from the arts and culture come all the time.''
 As if on cue, David Sensabaugh, the curator of Asian art at the Yale University Art Gallery, strolled in and ordered a latte. ''I like the people here,'' said Mr. Sensabaugh, who visits Lulu every weekend. ''It's a nice neighborhood place.'' 
 But with Yale in the background, this isn't any old neighborhood. 
 ''I think I've created a salon with a coffee shop wrapped around it,'' Ms. de Carrone said.
 Lulu, a European Coffeehouse, 49 Cottage Street, New Haven, (203) 785-9218.

2 p.m.: Barns Full of Books
 A bookstore in a rural area depends on customers wanting to find it, but at Whitlock Farm Booksellers in Bethany, they've been coming since it opened in 1948, and they still do. On a recent Saturday afternoon, down a country road through fields where horses graze, several cars sit in the parking lot near Whitlock Farm's old red barns. The two barns are leaning this way and that, as old barns do. But inside, the spines of the old books -- many of them rare -- are straight and intact, even after hundreds, perhaps thousands of thumbs have turned the pages. 
 ''There are just so many old books,'' said Jane Villeneuve of Washington, D.C., who grew up in Woodbridge and brings her children to the bookstore. ''If you go to Barnes & Noble you get new books. Here, you don't know what you're going to find. It takes you back in time.'' 
 The bookstore was threatened with closing when the last of the Whitlock owners, Gilbert Whitlock, died in 2004. Norman Pattis, a lawyer who lives a mile away, bought it that year and has been struggling to keep it open since. ''I need to break even soon,'' he said. ''The future is an open question.''
 Next to the bulletin board where dozens of business cards are tacked, Bacie Gitlin, a Yale freshman, worked behind a weathered wooden counter. From a speaker, the sounds of Bach's ''Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring'' filled the room. Mr. Gitlin has been visiting the shop with his father, Jay Gitlin, a history lecturer at Yale, since he was a toddler. 
 ''You can find anything here, from a 25-cent paperback to a $5,000 rare book,'' Mr. Gitlin said.
 Whitlock Farm Booksellers, 20 Sperry Road, Bethany, (203) 393-1240.

4 p.m.: DVDs, and They're Free
 Tired of paying late fees for movie rentals, Greg O'Neill of Stamford drove his hopes for a decent Saturday-night movie to the Ferguson Library, a stately Grecian-columned brick building in the middle of Stamford. With the second largest public library collection of DVDs and videos in the state -- Hartford has the largest, according to a 2004 count by the Connecticut Library Association, but much of it is missing -- it's likely to have the movie you want. 
 ''We discovered libraries had DVD collections,'' Mr. O'Neill said as he stood next to several shelves of DVDs, where half a dozen people were stretching and bending to read the titles. ''I have just one suggestion: that they promote some of the titles of what they understand to be the better movies.''
 The Ferguson Library also has a large foreign-language film collection, and exercise, advice and motivational films. 
 Kenneth McCoy of Stamford was searching the movies that Saturday at the Ferguson, which is the main branch of the Stamford libraries. He typically drops by the South End branch of the library to find a movie each Saturday, but this week he happened to be downtown. ''It has a large variety to choose from here,'' he said. ''But I know people call to put films on hold, so anything new that comes out, I have to wait.'' 
 He wouldn't have had to sidestep any bodies over at the VHS collection on the other side of the room. Nobody was shopping for a movie there. 
 Ferguson Library, 1 Public Library Plaza at the corner of Broad and Bedford Streets, Stamford, (203) 964-1000.

7 p.m.: Teenage Wasteland? Hardly
 The music is ear-splitting, the bassist flies through the air as much as he's on his feet, and teenage girls are crowded in front of the band. 
 Arcadia Coffee Company, by day a mild-mannered coffee shop in Old Greenwich that is full of suburban moms and dads, is transformed every couple of weeks into an evening music arena where mostly local teenage bands play for other teenagers.
 ''They are off the streets, it's a clean venue, there's no drinking, no drugs, and it's an opportunity for local talent to be showcased,'' said Stacey Tollin of Greenwich as she stood outside the shop, where two of her sons had performed that night in two different bands. Now a third group, the Knockout Kings, was on, the band with the flying bassist, and she wasn't venturing inside, even though Jenny Lawton, the owner, was at the door offering orange earplugs to the adults. 
 A sign on the front door makes Mrs. Lawton's rules clear: ''No drugs. No alcohol. Bags will be searched. No outside bottles. Be safe.''
 ''It's awesome,'' said Lauren Lemarchand, 15, a sophomore at Greenwich High School, as she stood outside. ''It's a place to go.'' 
 Arcadia has begun to draw teenagers from throughout the area. Katie Lyvers, a senior at West Hill High School in Stamford, sat on a stool at the rear of the shop, swaying to the music. ''Stamford is kind of boring sometimes,'' she said. ''So I come here not to be.''
 Mrs. Lawton, the mother of two boys, started to invite the bands about a year ago. She said she wanted to create a place where teenagers could be occupied and safe. ''These kids are part of the community, and this is about community,'' she said.
 Arcadia Coffee Company, 20 Arcadia Road, Old Greenwich, (203) 637-8766.

8 p.m.: Wear Comfortable Shoes
 Maybe it's the swirl of gathered skirts, their willowy folds flowing out like fans, collapsing back in, then flowing out again. Or the stomping of the heels, clothed in soft-soled boots, ballet slippers and sneakers, or, occasionally, left bare. Or the wide grins on the dozens of faces as they spin past. They are contra dancing, which is a form of square dancing, and are stepping out on a Saturday night in the second-floor dance hall of the Branford Community House on Church Street. Dancers from toddlers to retirees fill the floor. 
 ''You smile so much, your cheeks hurt,'' said Morley van Yperen of Guilford, who brought her husband and four children to the dance for the first time.
 Mrs. Van Yperen recalled contra dancing when she attended Gordon College in Massachusetts. ''This is what I remember from college: a great mismatch of people,'' she said. ''And so fun.'' She then stepped back into her group of dancers, elbow crooked to catch a fellow elbow, feet moving to keep up with the music, which is provided by a band of fiddle, guitar and flute.
 Watching the crowd from a doorway was Ada Wilson, also of Guilford, who has been dancing for about 25 years.
 ''I love the people,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''It's a very friendly, welcoming community. And I love to dance.'' 
 The twice-monthly dances are sponsored by the New Haven Country Dancers, a loosely knit group whose president, Paul McGuire of New Haven, is a computer programmer and analyst for Yale University's Department of Economics. Mr. McGuire worked up a sweat that night, then stepped off the floor to catch his breath. ''It's enjoyable going out there and being graceful,'' he said. ''Tell people to come.''
 New Haven Country Dancers dance at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 830 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, and at the Branford Community House, 46 Church Street, Branford, (203) 776-1812.

Sunday

11 a.m.: Eggs and Hats
 Fresh-squeezed orange juice is a treat at Sunday brunch, and Gail's on the Common delivers a big glass filled with it. There's no skimping here. The restaurant is in a new spot in a strip mall on Danbury Road in Ridgefield, where Patty Finnegan, the owner, took cover in August after the original and beloved Gail's on Main Street burned to the ground. The new location is not easy to find, but that didn't stop dozens of people from crowding into the little space to wait for a table on a recent Sunday. 
 Sunday is hat day at Gail's. The waitresses and Ms. Finnegan wear Sunday hats, balancing them on their heads while serving dishes like pancakes or omelets -- try the spinach with caramelized onion, diced tomato, salsa, sour cream, jalapenos, mushrooms and scallions -- which have long been a mainstay at Gail's. 
 Carol Anderson was eating a plate of eggs and home fries as she sat at a little square table with her husband, Paul. ''We like the friendliness,'' she said. ''And we see a lot of friends we know.''
 Ali and Steve Mortinger of Ridgefield, who were regulars at Gail's on Main Street, stood in the doorway waiting for a table with their sons, Sam, 10, and Matt, 7. ''It was where everybody went,'' Mrs. Mortinger said. ''I can't wait for it to be rebuilt.''
 Ms. Finnegan said that is a possibility. 
 ''I'm hoping,'' she said. ''It was a great spot. We have to see.''
 Gail's on the Common, 103 Danbury Road, Ridgefield, (203) 438-9775.

1 p.m.: Go Outside
 Kat Muthig of Harwinton stood by the guide map at the White Memorial Foundation and Conservation Center one Sunday afternoon, picking out the places her family had discovered there in the 15 years they had lived in the area. ''There are so many trails and it's so beautiful and quiet,'' she said. 
 There are plenty of pretty places to walk on a Sunday afternoon in Connecticut, but one of the loveliest is White Memorial in Litchfield. Maybe it's the feel of the Berkshire Mountains nearby, or the 4,000 acres the foundation owns, or the 35 miles of walking trails that encompass ponds, fields, forests, campgrounds, a boardwalk and Bantam Lake. Take a picnic, walk the dog, talk to your family. 
 This particular Sunday, about 20 cars were parked in the main lot. Irene and Bob Brown stood by their car preparing for a hike. They said they felt safe at White Memorial during hunting season. ''There's no hunting here,'' he said as he pulled on a hat to keep out the November chill. 
 At the education center across from the parking lot, Lauren Kennedy of Woodbury and her son, Kyle Kennedy, 12, were strolling about the deck. Kyle had spent the afternoon fishing for bass and trout at the foundation. Then the two walked the trails together. ''I just like being outdoors, and the peacefulness of walking in the woods,'' Ms. Kennedy said.
 White Memorial Foundation, 80 Whitehall Road, Litchfield, (860) 567-0857.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LIGHTS
LATTE -- Clockwise from top left: At Katz Ace Hardware in Glastonbury, customers can buy a light bulb, rent a leaf blower or get expert advice
Nick DeFrino at Bliss Market in Wethersfield offers prime cuts and genially cutting remarks
bagels on the counter at Lulu, a European Coffeehouse, in New Haven
Melanie Hellwig behind the counter at Lulu.
PEACE
MAYBE NOT QUIET -- Clockwise from above: White Memorial Foundation and Conservation Center, a serene setting for a picnic
teenagers gather at Arcadia Coffee Company in Old Greenwich to hear bands
Nick Bruce on bass and Andrew Sisley on trombone for the Knockout Kings at Arcadia
on the third floor at the Ferguson Library in Stamford. (Photos by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
 (Photos by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pgs. 10, 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKED GOODS (90%); MEATS (84%); RESTAURANTS (73%) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%); BILL CLINTON (56%); AL GORE (52%); JOE LIEBERMAN (52%) Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



470 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Pick Returns to City He Gladly Left

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Since 1993, when Robert M. Gates left Washington after completing 14 months as head of the Central Intelligence Agency saying it was ''time to get a life,'' he has recalled the capital's clashing egos and the news media's magnifying glass less than fondly. 
 Mr. Gates has kept his distance, basking in the tranquillity of a lakefront house near Seattle and then in the homespun rituals of Texas A&M University, where he has served as president since 2002. He has recalled the public battering he took in two Senate confirmation hearings as ''unpredictable, frustrating, exhausting, insulting, humiliating'' -- in short, ''a lot like a root canal.''
Well, welcome back to the dentist's chair, Mr. Gates. 
 Nominated by President Bush to replace Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense secretary, Mr. Gates, if he is confirmed as expected, will face challenges that dwarf even those he saw in the tumultuous last years of the cold war. With troops stretched thin and with no Pentagon experience, Mr. Gates will search for answers to the bloody civil strife in Iraq, the resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan and the threat of terrorism around the world.
 ''Things are so difficult and so complicated, it may be beyond anyone's ability to be successful,'' said Brent Scowcroft, a mentor and admirer of Mr. Gates. 
 ''I think he's crazy to take the job,'' said Mr. Scowcroft, the national security adviser to the first President Bush, ''and I'm very glad he's doing it.''
 Mr. Gates's life has embodied some paradoxes. He is a courteous 63-year-old native of Kansas who put himself through college as a grain inspector and school bus driver, an Eagle Scout who still serves in national scouting posts and likes to say that ''every boy that joins the Scouts is a boy on the right track.'' He is revered at Texas A&M, where he won over faculty skeptics and plunged into student life, leading the midnight-Friday pre-football-game ''yell practices'' and rising before dawn to jog with the Corps of Cadets. 
 Former bosses and many of his colleagues from the C.I.A. and the National Security Council speak in superlatives of Mr. Gates's quiet brainpower, steadiness and rectitude. ''There's a Sgt. Joe Friday quality about him,'' said Richard N. Haas, who served with him on the security council staff. ''There's a stoic quality. It's the analyst in him.''
 Robert D. Blackwill, a veteran diplomat who also was a security council colleague, calls him ''an utterly honorable person.''
 ''I saw him many times every day for several years,'' Mr. Blackwill said, ''and I never once saw him cut a corner or suggest anything improper.''
 Such praise notwithstanding, Mr. Gates's government service survived two episodes in which his professional ethics were challenged. 
 First his truthfulness came under question in the Iran-contra affair, derailing his 1987 nomination to head the C.I.A. 
 A special prosecutor, Lawrence E. Walsh, found Mr. Gates's statements ''less than candid'' and wrote in his final report that he did not bring criminal charges only because ''a jury could find the evidence left a reasonable doubt that Gates either obstructed official inquiries or that his two demonstrably incorrect statements were deliberate lies.''
 Thomas Polgar, a career C.I.A. officer who became a Senate investigator on Iran-contra, said in an interview that Mr. Gates's testimony was unconvincing. ''For a guy with such a good memory, it was astonishing how much he forgot,'' Mr. Polgar said. 
 In the second episode, Mr. Gates was accused by several former C.I.A. subordinates in 1991 of a cardinal sin for an intelligence analyst: politicizing intelligence by tailoring reports on the Soviet Union to fit his own and his bosses' hard-line views.
 Although he was confirmed, 31 senators voted against him. ''Congress owes it to the American people to ask: Has this man learned a lesson?'' said Jennifer L. Glaudemans, who testified against Mr. Gates as a C.I.A. analyst in 1991.
 Mr. Gates's backers, who are legion among veterans of intelligence and diplomacy, say the accusations came from disgruntled analysts who acted out of personal animus and never deserved the attention they got.
 ''I think it's an extraordinary example of his patriotism,'' Mr. Blackwill said, ''that he's willing to give up a job he loves and get back in the Washington cauldron.''
 Mr. Gates grew up a long way from that cauldron, in a middle-class Wichita neighborhood. His father sold auto parts wholesale, and his older brother, Jim, would become a school principal.
 At East High School, Bob Gates was a straight-A student who sang in the boys' choir and once put together a collection of animal brains. 
 A classmate, Hal Ottaway, remembers his friend taking him to the local courthouse to sit in on trials. ''We saw horrible divorce cases,'' Mr. Ottaway said. ''It was eye-opening. We both had led pretty sheltered lives.''
 Mr. Gates won a scholarship to the College of William and Mary, where he studied history, and went on to earn a master's degree at Indiana University. There he met his wife, Rebecca Wilkie Gates. They have two grown children, Eleanor and Brad. 
 At Indiana, Mr. Gates met with a C.I.A. recruiter and was offered a job as a Soviet analyst but first served 15 months in the Air Force keeping missile crews in Missouri abreast of international political and military developments. 
 ''Their lack of interest was awesome,'' Mr. Gates wrote with characteristic deadpan humor in a 1996 memoir, ''From the Shadows.'' 
 In 1974, he completed work on a Ph.D. at Georgetown, writing his dissertation on Soviet views of China and, at 31, won an assignment to the National Security Council staff.
 He would serve two stints at the security council totaling seven years under four presidents, both Democrats and Republicans. 
 Mr. Gates had great confidence in his own skills and views, which quickly attracted the attention of William Casey, who was director of central intelligence under President Ronald Reagan. 
 ''He was a wunderkind, and a little bit of brashness goes with that,'' said James M. Olson, who spent his career at the C.I.A. and now teaches at Texas A&M.
 In 1983, when Mr. Casey promoted Mr. Gates over more experienced analysts to the post of deputy director for intelligence, he gave analysts the ''junkyard dog speech,'' recalled Arthur S. Hulnick, a retired agency veteran. Mr. Gates sharply criticized the quality of work and declared, ''I'm going to set a bunch of junkyard dogs loose to make sure your analysis is good,'' Mr. Hulnick said.
 Richard J. Kerr, a veteran analyst who later served as Mr. Gates's deputy, said the agency's analysis ''had become lax and sloppy, and Bob set out to change that.''
 There were also ideological differences, Mr. Kerr said: ''Some analysts looked at the Soviets and saw a glass half full. Bob always saw it as half empty.''
 The resulting friction, he said, prompted the charges of politicization, which he felt were unfair. Ms. Glaudemans, however, insists that Mr. Gates rejected reports on subjects that included the Soviet role in terrorism and Soviet influence on Iran that did not fit his preconceptions. Sometimes, she said, he sent back reports he did not like ''stapled to the burn bag,'' implying they should be destroyed.
 Ms. Glaudemans said that in 1989, when Mr. Gates had left for the security council, he requested a C.I.A. memorandum on Soviet prospects if Mikhail S. Gorbachev did not last. An initial version, allowing for the possibility that reform would continue under Boris N. Yeltsin or another leader, was rejected, she said, because Mr. Gates wanted the paper to predict a return to neo-Stalinism. 
 ''I took my name off the paper,'' said Ms. Glaudemans, who then left the C.I.A. and is now a lawyer. ''Gates was a brutal manager to people who stood up to him and Casey.''
 When Mr. Casey died, President Reagan named the 44-year-old Mr. Gates to succeed him. But when some Democratic senators doubted Mr. Gates's insistence that he knew nothing about secret arms sales to Iran and diversion of the proceeds to help the Nicaraguan contra rebels to Iran, he withdrew his nomination.
 Loath to lose his services, President George Bush named him as Mr. Scowcroft's deputy in 1989 and for a second time as C.I.A. director in 1991. 
 Condoleezza Rice, the current secretary of state who had worked closely with Mr. Gates on the N.S.C. staff, went on television during the contentious hearings to defend him.
 ''I can only go by my experiences with Bob Gates, and this is a man of tremendous integrity,'' said Ms. Rice, who had returned to the Stanford faculty. 
 A few months after taking the helm of the C.I.A., Mr. Gates gathered the employees in the auditorium to speak about the dangers of politicizing intelligence. He described the confirmation dispute as ''wrenching, embarrassing, even humiliating'' and admitted that in 25 years he might not have ''always drawn the line'' correctly.
 Most of the speech, however, covered a series of proposed reforms to reduce the possibility of political spin, including the appointment of an internal ombudsman.
 After his brief tenure as director of central intelligence, Mr. Gates retreated from the capital to the mountains north of Seattle. He consulted, wrote and earned money from speaking engagements and corporate boards.
 Persuaded by Mr. Scowcroft to become interim dean of the George Bush School of Government at Texas A&M, Mr. Gates was offered the university presidency two years later. 
 The faculty had doubts about the appointment, said R. Douglas Slack, an ecologist and speaker of the faculty senate, who acknowledges he imagined ''secrecy, intrigue and black helicopters.''
 But Mr. Gates steadily won over professors and students. He found financing to add 450 faculty members, and he improved racial and economic diversity, sometimes by personally handing out scholarships in poor neighborhoods. He also began an ambitious building program. 
 ''He's a leader, but he's not bombastic,'' Mr. Slack said. ''I've been here 30 years, and he's the best president I've served under.''
 On Nov. 10, two days after his nomination as defense secretary, Mr. Gates addressed 30,000 people gathered for the ''midnight yell practice'' and spoke briefly, mixing football boosterism with glancing references to his impending departure.
 ''I have only one request of you as Aggies,'' he concluded, his voice breaking with emotion, ''and that's to never forget the importance of duty and honor and country.'' 
 Many in the audience wept, according to people who were there, and the applause on the YouTube clip is deafening. It was a reception he is unlikely to get in Washington. 

Robert M. Gates
In His Own Words

''The problem of politicization is as old as the intelligence business. The missile gap in the late 1950s, the disputes over our work on Vietnam in the 1960s, the criticisms of pandering to Nixon and Kissinger on detente in the early 1970s, that we were foils for the Carter administration on energy in the late 1970s -- all these controversies and more predated the 1980s. For as long as intelligence data has been collected and analyzed by human beings, it has been susceptible to their biases. '' (From a speech to C.I.A. employees, March 1992)

''The painful question facing the American people and the American government today -- as in the mid-1980s -- is whether to make a war against terrorism our highest priority in foreign policy. A war in which broader American political, economic and security interests would be sacrificed to our own jihad, or holy war, against terrorists.
 We will never prevent all -- or even most -- such acts. In the world of real choices, we can protect ourselves better. We can bring some terrorists to justice. But, above all, we can pursue policies and strategies that in the long term weaken terrorism's roots. '' (From a New York Times Op-Ed article, August 1998)


CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about Robert M. Gates, the nominee for defense secretary, misspelled the surname of a colleague who served with him on the staff of the National Security Council. He is Richard N. Haass, now the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, not Haas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert M. Gates, center, met Friday with Senators Bill Frist of Tennessee and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); COLD WAR (73%); TALIBAN (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TERRORISM (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (62%); ETHICS (61%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Iran-Contra Affair; United States Armament and Defense; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (57%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%) Scott Shane; Robert M Gates; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%) Russia; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



471 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-25

China's Yellow River in Crisis
With the sources of China's Yellow River threatened by climate change, and drought and pollution growing, the river is becoming a symbol of the dire state of the country's limited resources at a time of soaring economic growth. 1

Sunni Sheiks Denounce Cleric 

Sunni Arab sheiks from the volatile Anbar Province denounced a powerful Sunni cleric, calling him ''a thug'' for supporting Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and urging the Iraqi government to arrest him. 22

Canada's Christian Right Grows
The passing of legislation allowing gay marriage in Canada and the election early this year of Prime Minister Stephen Harper, a Conservative and an evangelical Christian, have galvanized conservative Christian groups to enter politics in the country as never before. 3

Journalists at Risk in Venezuela
While the motives behind recent killings and other examples of aggression toward journalists remain unclear, human rights groups say threats and intimidation have become all too common in Venezuela. 14

Poland Faces Labor Shortage
An estimated 800,000 people have left Poland since it joined the European Union in May 2004, creating a labor shortage so severe that the government may not be able to spend the money that the union is to begin sending in January for projects like improving roads and the water supply.16

Incentives for North Korea
President Bush and his aides have signaled that they will offer new incentives for North Korea to give up its stockpile of nuclear weapons and technology, American officials said. But the offers would hinge on the North's agreeing to begin dismantling some of the equipment it has used to build an arsenal. 8

NATIONAL 26-37

Democrats Focus on Ethics
Democratic House and Senate leaders, mindful that voters in the midterm election cited corruption as a major concern, say they are moving quickly to finish a package of changes for consideration as soon as the new Congress convenes. 1

Challenges for Bush Nominee
Nominated by President Bush to replace Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, will face challenges that dwarf even those he saw in the tumultuous last years of the cold war. 1

Glum Meeting for Conservatives
For the last 20 years, the Federalist Society, a conclave of conservative lawyers, has flourished, even when there was a Democrat in the White House. But the recent election results may have given a jolt to the group. 26

Pledge to Keep 49ers Name
In a strange political end run, two California politicians have pledged to introduce laws to prevent the San Francisco 49ers from calling themselves the 49ers if the team follows through on plans to relocate. 28

SPORTSSUNDAY SP1-16

Ohio Beats Michigan
The No. 1 Ohio State Buckeyes beat the No. 2 Michigan Wolverines, 42-39. The victory secures Ohio State's undefeated regular season and its slot in the Bowl Championship Series title game. SP1

NEW YORK/REGION 39-45

Salaries Rose at Public Library
Since 2003, when the New York Public Library declared itself in financial distress and unveiled an emergency campaign to raise $18 million in private money to deal with cuts in city and state financing , the compensation received by some of the institution's top officers has risen. 39

Chess 45
Weather 34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); RIVERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); ETHICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); COLD WAR (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RELIGION (71%); RELOCATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); MARRIAGE (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); STEPHEN HARPER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CANADA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



472 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Signals New Incentives for North Korea

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Sunday, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
In a series of closed-door meetings on the edges of the economic summit meeting of Asian nations here, President Bush and his aides have signaled that they will dangle a new set of incentives for North Korea to give up nuclear weapons and technology, American officials said. But the offers would hinge on the North's coming to talks next month agreeing to begin immediately dismantling some of the equipment it is using to build an arsenal.
 The stepped up diplomatic effort was made as Mr. Bush met leaders of the four countries that surround North Korea for the first time since the North conducted a nuclear test on Oct. 9. The meetings included a warm session with Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and a frosty one with the South Korean president, Roh Moo-hyun. 
At the end of the meeting with Mr. Roh, who has been fundamentally at odds with Mr. Bush on North Korea strategy, the South Korean president repeated his insistence that while his country accepted the ''principles and goals'' of an America-led initiative to intercept shipments in and out of the North, it would not participate in parts of the effort, American and Korean officials said. That left murky the critical question of whether Mr. Roh would permit a North Korean ship traveling in the South's waters to be stopped and searched.
 American officials at the meeting would not publicly discuss their discussions with Japan, China, South Korea and Russia over what steps they were demanding that North Korea take before resuming negotiations. Even in discussing broader points, most would speak only on condition of anonymity. But Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said the North needed to take ''concrete steps.'' 
 He declined to confirm three steps that American and Asian officials said were now being debated: an immediate shutdown of North Korea's 5 megawatt reactor, whose spent fuel can be turned into weapons; the closing of the reprocessing facility that manufactures plutonium fuel; and immediate inspections led by the International Atomic Energy Commission. The agency's inspectors were thrown out of the country in 2003. 
 ''Generically, those are the kinds of things one might think about,'' Mr. Hadley said when asked about them.
 The combination of incentives and demands on North Korea were expected to be the focal point when President Bush met President Hu Jintao of China. But in their statements to reporters as they sat down in a South Korean-owned hotel here on Sunday, Mr. Hu never mentioned North Korea, instead citing new trade statistics showing a 25 percent jump in American exports to China and noting renewed joint maneuvers between the Chinese and American Navies for search and rescue operations. Mr. Bush mention the North only in passing in the public comments.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also dangled a new incentive: the prospect of North Korea one day being allowed to join this Asia-Pacific economic forum. During a speech to business leaders, she said North Korea could follow the example of Vietnam and overcome its adversarial relationship with the United States. ''I can assure you we would welcome them, too, to a future of hope and prosperity,'' she said. ''We could then all realize the promise of a true community in the Asia-Pacific region.''
 North Korea is one of the very few Pacific nations not part of APEC, the group of 21 Asian and Pacific countries holding its annual summit meeting here in Hanoi.
 But for all the talk of regional economic cooperation and trade expansion that peppered the official agenda, the focal point of the behind-the-scenes huddles here was the package the United States was trying to put together to make sure that coming six-nation talks aimed at reining in North Korea's nuclear ambitions would not fail. 
 Wary that the off-again-on-again talks risk irrelevancy -- they began in 2003 and have yet to produce anything -- American officials said they did not want to sit down for another round until they had prepared a successful outcome. A senior Bush administration official said the United States was close to agreement with Russia, China, South Korea and Japan on what steps to ask North Korea to take. 
 Part of the debate has centered on what the five countries, but especially the United States, would give North Korea in return. In the past, American officials have talked about signing a peace treaty that would officially end the Korean War. Now they are hinting at the prospect of a ceremony to commemorate the event, hoping to capitalize on the desire of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, for American recognition. 
 But few diplomats say the promise of a peace ceremony one day and eventual membership to a trade organization will be enough to get Mr. Kim to start dismantling the nuclear program that his country has spent the last 50 years building. A senior Bush administration official said the five countries were also working on ''more immediate elements'' of an incentives package. 
 One big thing that North Korea has signaled it wants is for the United States to lift the financial restrictions it placed on a Macao bank, Banco Delta Asia, last year, that was a main hub of the North's international financial transactions. Last year, the Bush administration accused Banco Delta Asia of helping North Korea to launder money from drug smuggling and other illicit activities and to pass counterfeit $100 bills manufactured by the North's government. 
 Officially, American diplomats say they will lift the restrictions when North Korea stops counterfeiting American currency. But privately, they acknowledge that they hope to find ways to work on the problem with their North Korean counterparts. The American hope is to use the prospect of a resolution of the counterfeiting issue to get at an overall nuclear agreement. 
 The United States endorsed a statement from the Asia-Pacific group that strongly criticizes North Korea's October nuclear test and its July missile launchings. Mr. Bush spent Saturday afternoon at the brand new convention center that Vietnam built for the forum, and Saturday night at a gala dinner and cultural performance.
 This is his first trip abroad since the midterm elections, and administration officials were dogged by questions about the Iraq war. After her speech to business leaders, Ms. Rice was challenged by an American questioner who drew a parallel between ''our recent misadventures in Iraq and the tragedy of the Vietnam War some 30 years ago.''
 ''How can we resolve this quagmire?''
 Ms. Rice, who had been giving fairly bland answers to questions, became animated, embarking on a lengthy discourse that touched on the history books she read last summer (biographies of America's founding fathers), an exploration of the Iraqi psyche, the 1948 coup in Czechoslovakia that ''ended the last free society in Eastern Europe,'' and reflections on her own life growing up in the segregated South.
 ''Think about Japan, prostrate at the end of World War II, now the vibrant second-most important economy in the world,'' she said. ''Think, too, about Korea, South Korea: after years of military dictatorship, finally a vibrant democracy.
 ''And think also about where we're standing. Thirty years ago, what American would have thought that you would be standing in Vietnam at a conference of the Asia-Pacific Economic Council talking about free markets and open trade and the need to better integrate our economies? Who would have thought it?''
 She concluded that if the Iraqis work at it, with America's help, one day an American secretary of state would stand on a podium somewhere and say: ''How could it ever have been thought that the Iraqi people weren't capable of democracy? How could anyone have ever questioned that freedom and liberty would reign in the Middle East?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush with President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea, left, and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. (Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)
 Commuters awaited a signal to cross an intersection yesterday in Hanoi, where security was tight for the Asian economic conference. (Photo by Aaron Favila/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); NAVIES (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CLOSINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); STATISTICS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; Assets, Frozen

ORGANIZATION: Banco Delta Asia

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SHINZO ABE (90%); HU JINTAO (68%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Helene Cooper; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (79%) North Korea; Russia; China; Japan; North Korea; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



473 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; REPORTERS' NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Unlike Clinton, Bush Sees Hanoi In Bit of a Hurry

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Sunday, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush likes speed golf and speed tourism -- this is the man who did the treasures of Red Square in less than 20 minutes -- but here in the lake-studded capital of a nation desperately eager to connect with America, he set a record.
 On Saturday, Mr. Bush emerged from his hotel for only one nonofficial event, a 15-minute visit to the Joint P.O.W./M.I.A. Accounting Command, which searches for the remains of the 1,800 Americans still listed as missing in the Vietnam War.
There were almost no Vietnamese present, just a series of tables displaying photographs of the group's painstaking work, and helmets, shoes and replicas of bones recovered by the 425 members of the command. He asked a few questions and then sped off in his motorcade.
 On Sunday morning, Mr. Bush attended an ecumenical church service in an old French-built Catholic basilica to underscore the need for greater religious freedom. 
 But the mood of this trip could not have been more different from the visit of another president, Bill Clinton, exactly six years ago this weekend, when he seemed to be everywhere. 
 And while the difference says much about the personalities of two presidents who both famously avoided serving in the war here, it reveals a lot about how significantly times have changed -- and perhaps why America's ''public diplomacy'' seems unable to shift into gear.
 In 2000, tens of thousands of Hanoi's residents poured into the streets to witness the visit of the first American head of state since the end of the Vietnam War. Mr. Clinton toured the thousand-year-old Temple of Literature, grabbed lunch at a noodle shop, argued with Communist Party leaders about American imperialism and sifted the earth for the remains of a missing airman.
 On Saturday, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, conceded that the president had not come into direct contact with ordinary Vietnamese, but said that they connected anyway.
 ''If you'd been part of the president's motorcade as we've shuttled back and forth,'' he said, reporters would have seen that ''the president has been doing a lot of waving and getting a lot of waving and smiles.'' 
 He continued: ''I think he's gotten a real sense of the warmth of the Vietnamese people and their willingness to put a very difficult period for both the United States and Vietnam behind them.''
 Perhaps, but the Vietnamese have barely seen or heard from Mr. Bush. He spoke at his first stop, Singapore, promising that ''America will remain engaged in Asia.'' But the response was tepid -- the invited audience somehow missed several of built-in applause lines -- and one senior Singaporean diplomat, declining to be quoted by name, said there was little in the speech ''that his father didn't say to us 15 years ago.'' 
 Others questioned whether the United States was so fixated on the Middle East that China had been given free rein to spread its influence.
 Here in Vietnam, what has been missing, at least so far, are the kinds of emotional moments of reconciliation that marked Mr. Clinton's visit. Mr. Clinton took the two sons of the missing airman, Lt. Col Lawrence G. Evert, to a rice paddy in Tien Chau, a tiny town 17 miles northeast of Hanoi. There, they searched for remnants of the colonel's F-150D Thunderchief, which crashed during a bombing run in 1967. Scores of nearby villagers joined in the effort, and the soil gave up the airman's bones.
 There will be none of that for Mr. Bush, but he plans to highlight the new Vietnam on Sunday and Monday at its stock exchange in Ho Chi Minh City. Then he moves on to Indonesia for a few hours to meet ''civic leaders,'' something he did three years ago in a stopover in Bali. 
 But Mr. Bush is not staying overnight in the world's most populous Muslim nation, which Washington has portrayed as a critical test in the struggle to promote moderate, democratic Islamic states. The Secret Service said it was too dangerous, so he will spend the night in Hawaii.

Waiting for One More Star
 The Hadong Silk shop in this city's Old Quarter is the first port of call for well-heeled visitors on the hunt for the tailor-made silkwares for which Vietnam has become famous. This weekend, with heads of state from 21 countries in town for the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, a parade of dignitaries streamed in for fittings of made-to-order shirts, dresses and suits.
 Laureen Harper, the wife of Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, showed up on Friday, made a few purchases and signed the guestbook for Dang Thi Thu Thuy, the petite, exquisitely dressed owner. Ditto for Australia's first lady, Janette Howard.
 But Mrs. Thuy was searching for more. ''We really hope that Mrs. Bush will come into our store,'' she says. ''We are waiting for her, but she hasn't come.''
 The walls of Hadong Silk are lined with giant framed photos of Hillary Rodham Clinton, who came to the shop during Mr. Clinton's visit in 2000. There is a photo of Mrs. Clinton towering over three saleswomen, another of her standing next to Mrs. Thuy, both clad in silk suits, and one upstairs of her, surrounded by Secret Service agents, perusing silk blouses. 
 Vu Thi Thu Huong, a saleswoman, said the shop was so excited after Mrs. Clinton left, having bought 10 raw silk shirts for her husband, that the distinctive square collar on their men's silk shirts was renamed the ''Bill Clinton Collar.''
 So, will there be a ''George Bush Collar''? 
 Mrs. Thuy shrugged. ''I'm not sure,'' she said. She gestured to her camera, and said, ''If she comes we will take her picture, too.''
 Mrs. Bush visited the Temple of Literature, a monument to the legacy of Confucius, and the Museum of Ethnology, which focuses on Vietnam's 54 ethnic groups. With the spouses of other leaders, she saw water puppets. It is unclear whether she bought any silk.

Statements of New Times
 The Vietnamese are teetering somewhere between welcoming and overwhelmed as world leaders zoom through their streets and jam the hotels so fully that several diplomats have been housed in youth hostels.
 The country wants to portray itself as a rising competitor to China, but this is still a city with the slow-paced feel of an Asia that has been largely lost, one where the bicycle and the moped are the chief modes of transportation, and where old houses cooled by lazy ceiling fans have yet to be bulldozed for look-alike condos, Beijing-style.
 But it is also a place that reminds visitors of who prevailed over the Americans. One building that Mr. Bush zipped past is the Military History Museum, which displays a giant sculpture made of the broken fuselages and wings of downed French and American aircraft. The place was close to empty when Mr. Bush and his colleagues were meeting, but had he stopped by he would have heard a pretty one-sided account of the December 1972 bombing of Hanoi, and seen photographs of a troubled President Lyndon Johnson. 
 Just down the road, a giant banner mixes old and new. ''The Great Ho Chi Minh Is Still Alive in Our Modernizaton and Industrial Progress!'' it proclaims of the man who proclaimed Vietnamese independence. 
 If Mr. Ho were still alive, and able to sit up from his spot in the mausoleum, he would have seen road signs advertising the underwriting of the conference by Citigroup and Samsung.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A Reporter's Notebook article yesterday about President Bush's visit to Vietnam referred incorrectly to the aircraft flown by Lt. Col. Lawrence G. Evert, whose plane crashed there during a bombing run in 1967. His Thunderchief aircraft was an F-105D, not an F-150D.
A Reporter's Notebook article yesterday about President Bush's visit to Vietnam referred incorrectly to the aircraft flown by Lt. Col. Lawrence G. Evert, whose plane crashed there during a bombing run in 1967. His Thunderchief aircraft was an F-105D, not an F-150D.
An article on Sunday about President Bush's speedy visit to Vietnam and its contrasts with President Clinton's extended tour six years ago referred incorrectly to a Vietnam-era aircraft. It was an F-105D fighter-bomber, not an F-150D.

GRAPHIC: Photos: During his visit in 2000, former President Bill Clinton helped Dan and David Evert, behind him, search for the remains of their father, an airman. (Photo by Stephen Jaffe/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Laura Bush saw the Temple of Literature with other leaders' spouses. (Photo by Zainal Abd Haim/Reuters)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TRENDS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Vietnam War; United States International Relations; Prisoners of War; Missing in Action; Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom of Religion; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%) Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%) David E Sanger; Helene Cooper; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (93%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%) Hanoi (Vietnam); Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



474 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3543 words

HEADLINE: Coming Up, Transition At 30 Rock

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS and BILL CARTER; Lorne Manly contributed reporting.

DATELINE: Universal City, Calif. 

 BODY:
''FREEWAY!'' Bob Wright yells, pointing like a five-star general out the window of his Lincoln Town Car as it approaches the on-ramp to the 101. Wearing a Panama hat and blue blazer, Mr. Wright, NBC Universal's chairman and chief executive, is barking at a chase car full of corporate underlings who have made the mistake of slowing things down by using side streets instead of the highway to visit the set of NBC's new prime-time hit, ''Heroes.''
 Arriving at the ''Heroes'' studio on Sunset Boulevard a few minutes later, Mr. Wright's driver hurriedly tells a security guard that he has NBC's boss in the back seat. With nary an identification check, the gate rises and the limo breezes through. On the set, Mr. Wright's demeanor is friendly and unrushed, more that of a father visiting his children at work than that of a demanding uber-boss from New York. 
Visiting creative people at work, Mr. Wright says, is something he does not do as much as he would like. ''I live in a world where I have so many bits and pieces of information,'' he says. ''And sometimes you go out on a set and all of a sudden some otherwise extraneous pieces of info come together.''
 Generating a much-to-do-and-little-time-to-get-it-done vibe, Mr. Wright has fine-tuned his balancing act -- one part commandant, one part paternalistic persuader -- during his more than 20 years as NBC's steward. From managing the morning, evening and late-night news wars, broadcasting umpteen Olympics and presiding over the heyday and decline of ''Must See TV,'' to navigating the rise of cable television and buying a major Hollywood movie studio, ''Bob'' has been as synonymous with his corporate home as any executive in the media game.
 Mr. Wright may not be issuing directives for much longer. At 63, he is a decade or two younger than rivals like Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation and Sumner M. Redstone of Viacom. Unlike them, Mr. Wright does not control his own destiny -- he is an executive employee of General Electric, NBC's corporate parent.
 His boss, G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, is preparing for big changes at a time when immense strategic and competitive challenges abound. Mr. Immelt, amid a swirl of speculation inside and outside G.E., is leaning toward the appointment of Jeff Zucker, the 41-year-old head of NBC Universal's television business, to succeed Mr. Wright -- possibly as soon as early next year.
 Although G.E., the world's largest conglomerate, has no set retirement policy, few executives stay there beyond 65. ''Bob's done his job extremely well for a long period of time,'' Mr. Immelt said in an interview, ''and he's getting close to retirement.''
 THE twilight of Mr. Wright's run atop the media giant he created is curiously characterized by the same questions he faced in his early years: In a fast-changing media world, does the company have the assets to succeed? Can G.E.'s corporate formality succeed over the long haul in such a creative and freewheeling business? Or is G.E. simply steeling itself to finally sell NBC Universal outright? 
 Mr. Wright is such a large presence at NBC Universal that it is hard for many to imagine the place without him. Indeed, analysts and media insiders are raising fresh questions about Mr. Zucker's suitability to assume the reins from Mr. Wright, particularly after the sudden departures of two of Mr. Zucker's top deputies last week for chief executive jobs elsewhere.
 ''It's an inflection point now for the company in terms of its leadership and its operational performance,'' said Nicholas P. Heymann of Prudential Securities. Of the coming post-Wright era, he says: ''Those are big shoes to fill.'' 
 Bob Wright in action hardly looks like someone on the brink of retirement. Before he hands off the keys to his office at ''30 Rock'' -- as the new meta-comedy mocking NBC's corporate masters in Rockefeller Center is called -- he says he wants nothing less than to restore the network's faded prime-time glory, reverse its earnings slump, conquer the Internet, continue to grow its cable network business, vastly expand its presence overseas and defeat film piracy.
 When asked whether he wants to discuss his career plans, Mr. Wright sharply replies ''no!'' and then laughs. ''Listen, I stay here because I enjoy it,'' he says. ''And I also feel a certain sense of obligation.'' 
 Mr. Immelt said Mr. Wright's retirement would happen soon but refrained from specifying a time frame; Mr. Wright, for his part, says he feels that nothing is imminent.
 ''My time will come when I'm not needed to do this and I don't want to do it,'' he said. ''It isn't right now. That's all I can tell you.'' 
 Mr. Wright gives every appearance of remaining hands-on. As NBC's top 60 global executives gathered for a ''leadership council'' meeting last month in Universal City, he conducted detailed reviews of the company's theme park and film businesses. He and Mr. Zucker had just unveiled the third major reorganization of the business since 2004, and he talked about reasons behind $750 million in budget cuts and the elimination of 700 jobs. 
 Inviting two reporters along to the closed-door meeting, Mr. Wright also played host during a studio tour that revealed the sometimes painstaking task of making Hollywood magic: On the set of the comedy picture ''Evan Almighty,'' about two dozen people tried to film a live rabbit against a blue screen to help stock a scene in which the full complement of passengers on Noah's ark make an appearance. 
 Mr. Wright then set out in a golf cart for a drive down Wisteria Lane, the fabled home of the ABC hit ''Desperate Housewives,'' which is filmed on the Universal lot and serves as a constant reminder of NBC's own prime-time stumbles. Asked how much rent the show pays, he joked, ''Not enough.'' As he lunched on fish later at the studio commissary, he perked up when Ron Meyer, the president of Universal Studios, brought over an energetic Tom Cruise from the next booth for a brief schmooze.
 Such pleasantries aside, Mr. Wright's main reason for being in Hollywood was much less glamorous. The leadership meetings were a dry run for a presentation that the whole group would deliver to Mr. Immelt at G.E. headquarters in Fairfield, Conn., the next week at an annual rite known as ''Session II.'' 
 There was plenty of confidence but little self-congratulation in Burbank. In its third-quarter financial results, G.E. reported that NBC Universal's overall operating earnings had declined by 10 percent, to $542 million, on revenue of $3.9 billion. It was the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year earnings declines for NBC Universal, all while publicly traded rivals like the News Corporation and the Walt Disney Company have seen their stocks soar on rising profits. Over all, NBC Universal, the smallest of G.E.'s six operating units, accounted for less than 10 percent of the industrial leviathan's profit and revenue. 
 The film studio, the host of the event, had just posted its worst financial performance in eight years under various owners. Universal had also endured a couple of high-profile bruises: it lost out to Paramount on buying Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks SKG and then suffered the loss of Stacy Snider, Mr. Meyer's second in command, to DreamWorks. 
 ''Bob has a brilliant understanding of our business, but he's not a cheerleader,'' said Mr. Meyer, who has promised that next year's movie slate will show a vast improvement. ''He sees the facts and he makes you eat those facts.'' 
 Part of the challenge any executive faces in running a media conglomerate is understanding the difference between a down year in a cyclical business and a fundamental long-term threat. To drive this point home for his minions during the two-day meeting, Mr. Wright invited a top executive from G.E.'s media lending business to brief them on the global changes confronting the parent company's finance arm, GE Capital. In 1987, the G.E. executive noted, less than 15 percent of GE Capital's income came from outside the United States; by last year, international business represented more than half the company's pretax earnings -- or more than $5 billion.
 Mr. Wright believes that this is a parable not only for NBC's ambitions overseas, but also for its newfound resolve to figure out how to make serious money on the Internet before the Web undermines the economics of traditional television. ''When an organization gets really realistic, that's actually exciting,'' he says.
 Only the legendary broadcaster Frank Stanton of CBS led a television network company longer than Bob Wright has -- and that was in an era, ending in the early 1970s, when being a television executive meant having a license to print money. Mr. Wright joined NBC in 1986, fresh from G.E.'s financial services division, and was pooh-poohed by some within the company as little more than an interloping suit with little devotion to the business. 
 Mr. Wright, then 43, had no illusions about the waning prospects of advertiser-supported broadcast TV. One of his strengths, analysts say, is an ability to see around strategic corners; colleagues say he also tends to find dark shadows lurking there. 
 ''We tease him from time to time about the glass being half empty for him,'' said Tom Brokaw, the former ''NBC Nightly News'' anchor. 
 Although NBC churned out about $500 million in profit when Mr. Wright came aboard in 1986, he told veteran executives there that they were heading for irrelevance because of the coming tide of cable television. And then he set out to push NBC into the engulfing wave.
 HIS early years were rough going, mainly because NBC's network fortunes quickly waned. Rumors that G.E. intended to sell the network were part of the daily hum in the media (as they have been again in recent years). But with the infusion of hits like ''Seinfeld,'' ''Friends'' and ''E.R.'' in the early 1990s, the NBC network came back stronger than ever, even as Mr. Wright was expanding its cable holdings with channels like CNBC and MSNBC. 
 Mr. Wright seemed able to deftly meld the analytical and process-obsessed G.E. way of doing business with the creative whims of the media world. He could talk fluently about Six Sigma ''lean'' reviews -- G.E.-speak for reducing corporate waste -- while maintaining close relations with some of NBC's most important talents like Johnny Carson, Conan O'Brien and Brian Williams. Mr. Wright even demonstrated an occasional flair for identifying future stars and hits, as in his early advocacy for the struggling Mr. O'Brien and for the comedy ''Will and Grace.''
 The high point for Mr. Wright came in 2003, when NBC's earnings peaked at $800 million. Then the hits began to dry up. In 2005, the revenue that the network snagged during the annual ''upfront'' period -- in which advertisers buy time for the next TV season based on how good the shows look -- fell by about $1 billion, or roughly a third. 
 At the same time, Mr. Wright was finally realizing his ambition of reducing the company's exposure to network TV. Following the start-ups of the cable news channels, he pursued an ambitious diversification plan that included buying the Spanish-language network Telemundo, the Bravo channel and a big stake in the former Paxson Communications. But an online foray, called NBCi, deflated with the dot-com bubble. 
 In 2003, Mr. Wright scored what appeared to be a major corporate coup when NBC acquired the film and TV assets of Vivendi Universal for $14 billion, which resulted in Vivendi owning 20 percent of the combined company. By adding the Universal studios, theme parks and the cable channels USA Network and Sci-Fi Channel, Mr. Wright further expanded NBC's cable holdings and gave it more monthly subscription fees and ad revenue. 
 After finishing last in prime time among the big networks in 2005, NBC spread the word that the poor showing was bad for public relations and morale. But NBC Universal as a whole barely felt the financial pain. After all, prime time, which represented more than 50 percent of NBC's earnings in the early 1990s, now accounts for only 13 percent. 
 But for all his efforts to move beyond network television, Mr. Wright concedes that NBC Universal's weakening financial performance over this last year stemmed largely from prime time. ''It's a large-enough issue that you can't overcome it with ordinary growth from the rest of the business,'' he lamented. 
 As it tries to revive its television operations, NBC Universal has issued the edict that the network would focus less on scripted programming -- a hallmark of NBC's past success -- and more on reality shows in the once-lucrative 8 p.m. hour. That may be tricky for the network. Although NBC has had its share of success with shows like ''Deal or No Deal'' and ''The Apprentice,'' Mr. Wright said that reality TV was ''not something that entertainment people come to naturally.''
 Patience at the top of the food chain also seems to be wearing thin. Mr. Immelt said that ABC, the top-rated broadcast network, generated about $400 million in profit last year. That is roughly half of what NBC banked in its best years -- a very tangible reminder of how television economics have changed. ''I've got to plan on us restoring market share in prime time at NBC,'' Mr. Immelt added in an interview. In terms of meeting his targets of 10 percent to 15 percent annual profit growth in the business, Mr. Immelt said that coming in first was ''not enough anymore.'' 
 Prime time also matters because NBC's slide occurred on Mr. Zucker's watch. Mr. Zucker, whom analysts and the G.E. brass once routinely regarded as a wunderkind, has come under more critical scrutiny. His challenges may also be compounded by the departures last week of Randy Falco and David Zaslav, two highly regarded deputies. Mr. Falco is the new chief executive of AOL, while Mr. Zaslav is becoming the chief executive of Discovery Communications.
 Some media executives and analysts said in interviews that while they respected Mr. Zucker's intellect and talents as a producer and manager, they questioned whether he possessed Mr. Wright's overall business savvy and an ability to dazzle Wall Street. Mr. Heymann, the Prudential analyst, says he does not think it is ''predetermined'' that Mr. Zucker will get the nod.
 Still, Mr. Zucker does have fans. ''Jeff Zucker would be a good and logical choice to succeed Bob Wright in our view,'' said William Drewry, a media analyst at Credit Suisse. And there is also speculation that at least one G.E. executive may parachute into a senior operational role at NBC to backstop Mr. Zucker. 
 For his part, Mr. Zucker says that his 20 years working for G.E. have given him a real-world business education. ''It's true that I was not classically trained in business,'' he said. ''My whole career I have done the creative and then been asked to handle the business.'' 
 Mr. Zucker was the chosen one at NBC almost from the time he joined the network in 1986 as an Olympics researcher (in the same month that Mr. Wright came to the network). He impressed virtually everyone he worked with, and was running the ''Today'' show, NBC's most important franchise, five years later. He was only 26. 
 Mr. Zucker's performance with ''Today'' -- which contributes as much as $600 million in advertising each year -- led Mr. Wright to break conventions and put him in charge of entertainment. Mr. Zucker had not been exposed to comedy scripts or casting calls; ultimately, he did not embrace Hollywood and it did not embrace him. 
 He was credited with keeping NBC on top as long as possible by retaining hits like ''Friends'' for two years longer than expected. He also invented a ''supersizing'' strategy that relied on stretching out the running time of NBC's hit shows. It was a policy that all of NBC's competitors first derided and then copied.
 But NBC's lineup finally sputtered, and it dropped from first place to last. Yet rather than having his career derailed, Mr. Zucker was promoted last year and now oversees two-thirds of NBC Universal's business. 
 Outside of prime time, NBC's television business, particularly its cable channels, has had greater success on Mr. Zucker's watch. On the network side, NBC's late-night fare dominates the ratings; the ''Today'' show is as strong as it has been in recent years, even with the loss of its former co-host, Katie Couric; and Brian Williams is back to No. 1 in evening news. USA Network is the top-rated cable channel of any kind this season. USA and CNBC -- with its highly affluent target audience -- generate more profit than any of the other NBC businesses.
 The fortunes of prime time have also begun to turn with the success of ''Heroes,'' this season's only breakout show on any network. NBC has also finally found some programs to fit its longstanding profile as the network of the well-educated and affluent. ''The Office,'' ''My Name Is Earl'' and the Sunday NFL package all snare lots of younger male viewers with college degrees and high incomes. So far this season, NBC's ratings have catapulted to second place among 18- to 34-year-old viewers, from fourth place a year ago.
 But NBC still does not have anything like the ratings colossus that is Fox's ''American Idol'' -- as Mr. Wright often ruefully notes. ''It's unbelievable that one company would have the two winners of the lottery,'' he says, referring to the megapopular audition show and Mr. Murdoch's wily purchase of the social networking site MySpace.
 THE Internet and the sweeping transition from analog to digital media may be Mr. Wright's final and perhaps most vexing challenge -- one that he, his top executives, and many others in the media business were late to pursue and make no claim to having figured out. One session at last month's leadership council meeting was devoted to exploring the economics of YouTube and how it was that Google could justify paying $1.65 billion for it.
 A staunch crusader against piracy, Mr. Wright is wary of YouTube, a Web site where users post favorite video clips. He sees it as a major usurper of copyrights and thus its new owner, Google, potentially as ''a legitimate defendant.'' At the same time, the Goog-Tube deal may portend the upheaval facing traditional television.
 To meet his online challenges, Mr. Wright named Beth Comstock last year to head all of NBC Universal's digital efforts. Ms. Comstock, 46, joined NBC in 1986 as a publicist and worked directly for Mr. Wright before G.E. promoted her into its own corporate ranks. Before returning to NBC to take on the Internet, she was G.E.'s chief marketing officer. Her return to the 52nd floor of Rockefeller Center set off speculation that she was being placed in competition against Mr. Zucker, rumors that NBC executives denied. ''We may have considered her for a different job initially but I wanted to get her in the mix,'' Mr. Immelt said. 
 Ms. Comstock's arrival caused a stir partly because her new role cut across all divisions of the company. ''I thrive in ambiguity, and this job is filled with ambiguity,'' she said in an interview.
 Mr. Wright notes that digital became ''hotter than a pistol'' at NBC after Ms. Comstock arrived, particularly after it spent $600 million to buy the online business iVillage. Ms. Comstock has been pursuing any digital strategy that shows promise -- including a new fund with GE Capital to invest in tech start-ups. ''She's a solid citizen and a keeper and should be a very big person here over time,'' Mr. Wright said. 
 Where Mr. Zucker is concerned, Mr. Immelt says, essentially, that even though he does look outside the company for senior candidates, the chief executive's job is Mr. Zucker's to lose. ''I am today and have been a Jeff Zucker fan,'' he said. ''I don't want to put any sharper edge on that other than to say that Jeff is a talented executive.'' 
 Implicit in Mr. Immelt's statement is another -- that, for the foreseeable future, G.E. plans to hang on to NBC Universal. ''We still view it as an industry that is capable of solid growth,'' he said. Some analysts, including Mr. Heymann of Prudential, say that the financial prospects of NBC are improving and that G.E. would not sell it before it cashes in on the Olympics and coverage of the presidential election in 2008. 
 Mr. Wright has survived and even thrived at the center of swirling changes in media over the last two decades, standing as both a supporter of the clout left over from the dominant days of the broadcast networks and an unflagging advocate for adaptation and change. Somehow, amid the media wars, he has even found time, with his wife, Suzanne, to start a charity to battle autism.
 One twist in what appears to be his looming departure is that plenty of analysts agree with him that NBC Universal's financial turnaround is at hand. But with so many uncertainties to wrestle with -- chief among them the digital upheaval that is turning all media on its head -- there may not be enough runway left for him to prove that his company is not past its prime.
 Cue Mr. Wright. ''I think this is the probably the most exciting phase since I've been around,'' he said. ''We have made some progress, but you want to do so much so quickly.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Wright, far right, the day he was named head of NBC in 1986, alongside John F. Welch Jr., the chairman of G.E., center, and Grant Tinker, Mr. Wright's predecessor. (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)
General Electric's chairman, Jeffrey R. Immelt, at left, says he is a ''fan'' of Jeff Zucker, Bob Wright's likely successor, who is pictured with Katie Couric as she was leaving NBC. (Photos by left, Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg News
right, Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. 7)Drawing (Drawing by Charlie Powell)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Wright's Ride''Bob Wright took the helm of NBC with limited experience in media, at a time when technology was about to transform the television business. Over the next 20 years, he rode the technology wave, diversifying beyond TV into cable and film. Through all the changes, one thing stayed the same -- hit prime-time TV shows are essential to success.Major events at NBC during Bob Wright's tenurePROGRAMMINGMAY 1992Johnny Carson quits the ''Tonight Show''
replaced by Jay Leno.FEB. 1993''Seinfeld'' moves to Thursday night, which becomes the night of ''Must See TV.''SEPT. 1994''Friends'' and ''E.R.'' have their debuts in the same season.DEC. 1997''Today'' celebrates 100 consecutive weeks in first place in morning news.MAY 2004''Friends'' ends its run after 10 years. ''Must See TV'' is over.2006NBC regains rights to NFL football
 moves prime-time package to Sunday nights.DEALSAUG. 1986Bob Wright is named president and chief of NBC.FEB. 1989NBC starts CNBC -- a business news channel.JULY 1996NBC forms partnership with Microsoft and starts the cable news channel MSNBC.OCT. 2001NBC acquires Telemundo, the Spanish-language network.NOV. 2002NBC acquires Bravo, the cable entertainment channel.MAY 2004NBC acquires Universal Pictures and cable channels including USA Network.(pg. 7)Chart: ''Measuring Up''NBC Universal is projected to be the fourth-largest entertainment company in 2007, based on both revenue and operating profit.Projected 2007 rankings for the major entertainment companiesREVENUE: Time Warner2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: $49.6REVENUE: Disney2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 36.5REVENUE: News Corp.2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 17.4REVENUE: NBC Universal2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 16.4REVENUE: CBS Corp.2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 15.1REVENUE: Viacom2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 11.4OPERATING PROFIT: Time Warner2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: $9.3OPERATING PROFIT: Disney2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 8.1OPERATING PROFIT: News Corp.2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 4.5OPERATING PROFIT: NBC Universal2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 3.4OPERATING PROFIT: Viacom2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 3.1OPERATING PROFIT: CBS Corp.2007 FORECAST, IN BILLIONS: 2.8(Source by Credit Suisse)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (60%) Television; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (87%); NEWS CORP (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); VIACOM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Nbc Universal

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (87%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (87%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); SUMNER REDSTONE (57%); JACK WELCH (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%); KATIE COURIC (57%); JAY LENO (50%) Bob Wright; Jeff Zucker; Richard Siklos; Bill Carter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006



475 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 322 words

 BODY:

MOSTLY GRAVY -- It is a holiday week, so there is fairly little on the schedule. Markets, of course, will be closed Thursday in observance of Thanksgiving. The bond market will close early on Wednesday. The only economic reports due out are the leading economic indicators for October, on Monday, and the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, on Wednesday. 


COMPETITIVE PRESSURES -- On Monday, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. (above) will speak on the competitiveness of the capital markets in the United States before the Economic Club of New York. The subject has become a contentious one, with corporate America clamoring for relief from what it says are the more onerous governance and auditing requirements of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The burdens of regulatory compliance have been blamed for the reluctance of foreign companies to list their securities on American markets.

BUY-BUY -- The day after Thanksgiving is Black Friday, the traditional starting gun for the Christmas and Hanukkah shopping orgy. Although many stores have historically held huge promotional events pegged to the annual ritual, this year some retailers started early. Wal-Mart Stores, for instance, introduced some online deals in October and said it would cut more prices at its online store on Thanksgiving Day. Sony's PlayStation 3 may be hard to come by, but there are other options for people who crave new (and highly publicized) technology gadgets: Microsoft has started selling its Zune portable music player, and Nintendo just introduced its Wii game console.

ANNOUNCE, THEN FEAST -- Although it will be a bountiful week at dinner tables across America, it will be a thin week for corporate earnings. Among the relatively few companies reporting will be: Campbell Soup, Lowe's Companies, Medtronic, Nordstrom and Phillips-Van Heusen (Monday); Borders Group, Eaton Vance and J. Crew Group (Tuesday); and Hormel Foods (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); BONDS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); HANUKKAH (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); EVENT MARKETING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (69%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (65%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (64%) Boards of Directors; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (65%); BORDERS GROUP INC (64%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); J CREW GROUP INC (53%); MEDTRONIC INC (53%); PVH CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%) Severstal (Russian Co)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (65%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); MDT (NYSE) (53%); PVH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (65%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (65%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (64%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (64%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (53%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%) Chris Clark; Ron Freeman; Peter (Dr) Kraljic; Martin Angle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006



476 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Land Dispute Pits Columbia Vs. Residents In West Harlem 

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
When Columbia University announced plans three years ago to expand by building on 17 acres in West Harlem, the university stressed that it would work with its neighbors rather than risk stirring up long-held animosities.
 But before the release of an environmental report for the $7 billion project, opponents say Columbia has antagonized Harlem residents by insisting that it has the right to seek eminent domain to force property owners out.
''On a scale of 1 to 10, Columbia is a minus 5 in terms of trust,'' said Jordi Reyes-Montblanc, chairman of the local community board. ''I honestly believe that Columbia has made a tremendous effort to overcome its history, but in the process, they've made so many snafus that it hasn't really helped them.'' 
 In recent months, the misunderstandings have only intensified. 
 Last week, for example, as Columbia and the city Department of Education worked to complete plans for a new public school in the neighborhood with an emphasis on math and science, parents held a demonstration, saying that the school's proposed temporary location at an existing public school would be disruptive. Columbia is helping the school establish a curriculum, and the final home of the school will be on Columbia-owned property. 
 Columbia, however, said it had nothing to do with choosing the temporary site.
 And during the past several weeks, some residents have become incensed as inspectors hired by the state have surveyed the neighborhood as part of a study to determine if the area should be considered blighted, a finding that could allow the state to use eminent domain to acquire property for the expansion.
 With big demographic and economic changes occurring in Harlem as a backdrop, each side sees the expansion as critical to its future. For Columbia, it would allow an elite but cramped university to build additional academic and residential buildings, including new facilities for its arts and business schools and dozens of modern science research labs it needs to keep pace with other Ivy League universities. 
 Harvard University, for example, is seeking a new campus on 200 acres in Boston, and the University of Pennsylvania plans to expand on 40 acres in Philadelphia.
 But for residents of West Harlem, Columbia's expansion threatens the survival of their neighborhood. Columbia has already bought 65 percent of the properties in the area, and if the project is approved, all but three buildings in the 17-acre tract would be razed. 
 The low-rise neighborhood of apartment buildings, warehouses and auto-repair shops would be replaced by a cityscape designed by Renzo Piano and Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, in which glass-walled buildings would rise as high as 25 stories. (Mr. Piano also designed a new headquarters for The New York Times.) Because of the project's potential to drive up nearby property values, many in the neighborhood say they fear widespread displacement if the necessary rezoning for the campus is approved, which could happen as early as next summer.
 While university officials play down the simmering tension, longtime residents say the relationship between campus and community is at its most fraught since 1968. 
 That year, violent protests erupted after the university proposed building a university gymnasium in Morningside Park with separate entrances for students and residents of the predominantly poor, African-American neighborhood.
 The two sides are at such odds that they cannot even agree on a name for the area: The university calls it Manhattanville, while most residents refer to it as West Harlem.
 ''I was real hopeful at the beginning of the process, but over the last few years things have really broken down,'' said the Rev. Earl Kooperkamp, rector at St. Mary's Episcopal Church.
 Lee C. Bollinger, president of Columbia, and a law school student there in 1968, said the university had come a long way since the 1960s. The new campus, he said, would benefit both the university and the neighborhood. 
 ''Everybody who lives there will be better off,'' he said last summer. ''Everyone is pleased with the way Columbia has dealt with them.''
 The new campus, which would be built over 25 years on a narrow strip of land parallel to the Hudson River, from 125th Street to 133rd Street, would be among the largest developments in recent city history. It would also be Columbia's largest expansion since it moved from Midtown Manhattan to Morningside Heights in 1897.
 The first of two construction phases for the campus would be completed by 2015 and include the new science, arts and business buildings.
 Plans for the second stage are less clear, but could include new dormitories and academic buildings, as well as swimming and diving pools. In all, the campus would have 17 new buildings.
 West Harlem residents say they are not opposed to Columbia's expansion, but have a competing plan that emphasizes building more affordable housing and retaining the area's light industry. 
 Columbia's proposal does not include affordable housing and would eliminate all of the light industry.
 Since the Industrial Revolution, the area has been dominated by industry -- in the mid-19th century it had a mill and a brewery, and later, the neighborhood contained dairy and automobile plants, including an old Studebaker factory, which Columbia plans to preserve. 
 Currently, meat packing plants, car repair shops, moving and storage warehouses, and a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus depot are on the site. About 400 people also live in apartment buildings there. 
 Columbia has said it intends to pay their relocation costs if the area is rezoned and it is allowed to start its expansion project. 
 Though the university has been buying property in the area for years, several large commercial landowners have refused to sell. In response, Columbia has said it might seek to have eminent domain invoked. 
 That prospect has caused alarm in the area, where opposition to eminent domain runs deep among many African-Americans because it was used for urban renewal projects in the 1960s that demolished entire neighborhoods and replaced them with public housing towers.
 ''Any neighborhood wants to see improvements, but not at the risk of people being driven out,'' said Nellie Bailey, executive director of the Harlem Tenants Council.
 But Mr. Bollinger said the issue is not negotiable. 
 ''I would be irresponsible as president of Columbia to give up eminent domain,'' he said. ''We have done nothing to initiate eminent domain, and I hope not to have to use eminent domain.'' 
 However, he added, ''We should be prepared to use it.'' 
 To that end, in a 2004 letter to the Empire State Development Corporation, Columbia asked the state agency to ''consider the condemnation of portions of the property not under Columbia control.''
 The community board has signaled its discontent by voting unanimously to oppose the use of eminent domain, and several members have said they will oppose the project unless Columbia pledges not to seek those powers. 
 While the board's role is only advisory, the expansion's rejection by the panel would probably weigh heavily on the City Planning Commission and the City Council, which must approve the project.
 Anne Z. Whitman, the owner of Hudson Moving and Storage, said Columbia had offered $4 million for her six-story, 35,000-square-foot building -- though she has repeatedly told the university she has no plans to move. 
 Ms. Whitman believes the university will eventually try to condemn her building through eminent domain.
 In a 2004 letter to Ms. Whitman, the university said it would be ''impossible'' for her business to remain, given Columbia's expansion plans. 
 ''No way Columbia is going to steal this property right out from underneath me,'' she said. ''Remember that man who stood in front of the tank at Tiananmen Square? That's me.''
 Nicholas Sprayregen, president of Tuck-It-Away Self-Storage, is the largest property owner in the area with five buildings and almost 300,000 square feet of space. He said he has spent several hundred thousand dollars fighting Columbia and is willing to spend more.
 He has hired Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer, and has pledged to take the case to the United States Supreme Court if Columbia seeks to use eminent domain.
 ''No one is saying to Columbia, 'You can't have a campus here,' '' he said. ''They say they have to have everything and they won't give a reason why -- because there is no reason.'' 
 Mr. Bollinger said the university is seeking ownership of the entire 17 acres because it wants a contiguous campus.
 Other university officials said that once they sign a community benefits agreement with West Harlem, much of the opposition will dissipate.
 This fall, the community board organized a local development corporation to conduct negotiations with Columbia for a benefits package.
 The eventual agreement could include items like establishing a fund to prevent displacement because of rising rents or building an asthma clinic.
 But opponents said a benefits package would not resolve several points of disagreement with Columbia, including the possibility of hazardous chemical and biological research and animal testing at the proposed science laboratories. 
 While Columbia has said the expansion would create 7,000 jobs, Mr. Reyes-Montblanc, the chairman of the community board, said he was skeptical about the sort of employment that would be offered.
 ''Most of the people in our community do not come close to the requirements for lab jobs,'' he said. ''What's left are less desirable types of work, like janitorial jobs.'' 
 Columbia officials said that the university would do what it could to help meet West Harlem's needs, but said that there were limits to what it could do.
 ''We've got to make sure we do the right thing,'' said Robert Kasdin, a senior executive vice president at the university, who is overseeing the expansion. ''And whatever we do, we will be subject to criticism because we can't fix the underlying problems.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Columbia University is planning to expand its campus on 17 acres of land along the Hudson River, from 125th Street to 133rd Street. Jordi Reyes-Montblanc, right, chairman of the local community board, says Columbia has done little to gain residents' trust. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)Map of Manhattan showing Columbia University's Long-Term Plan to Expand. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CURRICULA (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Renting and Leasing; Labor; Eminent Domain; Area Planning and Renewal; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%) Columbia University

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Timothy Williams; Lee C Bollinger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006



477 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Eisner Communications Closes After Year of Losses

 BODY:
Eisner Communications in Baltimore, which traces its roots to an agency opened in 1939, has been closed after more than a year of account losses, revenue decline and staff departures. 
 The closing left about 50 employees without jobs and several clients without an agency, including the Maryland Lottery, the National Aquarium and Spirit Airlines. Eisner assets will be sold to help pay money owed to companies that include the National Geographic Society, which recently sued Eisner for nonpayment.
Eisner never recovered from the loss last year of the $20 million US Airways account. After US Airways merged with America West Airlines, the account was shifted to Moses Anshell in Phoenix, the agency for America West. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); LOTTERIES (84%) Advertising and Marketing; Shutdowns (Institutional); Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: EISNER COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (83%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (57%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (57%) Eisner Communications

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (83%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006



478 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: A New Formula for Medicare Drugs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Time Again to Choose or Switch Drug Plans'' (news article, Dec. 15):
In the six months from Nov. 15, 2005, through May 15, 2006 (the cutoff date), I counseled more than a hundred elderly people on the Medicare Part D drug program.
 Now, with many of the programs substantially changed (not to mention the changed health conditions of many of the elderly), those same people have only the last six weeks of this year to figure out which drug plan is best for them. And to top it off, federal officials are suggesting that all such changes be made by Dec. 8, so that the Jan. 1 switchover will work smoothly. 
 This is a callous disregard by Health and Human Services of the extraordinary (and unnecessary) complexity of the drug program. Many of the elderly have been helped by Part D, but the timing restrictions and incomprehensible labyrinth of choices combine to make the program much less useful than it could have been, and, worse, completely inaccessible to many.

Marcia Feingold
Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 15, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Administration Opposes Democrats' Plan for Negotiating Medicare Drug Prices'' (news article, Nov. 13):
 The health and human services secretary, Michael O. Leavitt, asserts that what Democrats really want is ''government-run health care.''
 He's only partly right. It's the American people -- Democrats, Republicans and independents alike -- who have made it clear that they want government-run health care. It's called Medicare. 
 But they do not want the private corporations that the Republicans have subsidized to provide Medicare beneficiaries with H.M.O.-style managed care and prescription drug benefit programs that, with their profit margins, ballooning administrative costs and restrictions on patient choice, have failed to reduce costs.
 Mr. Leavitt manifests ideological hypocrisy by touting the wonders of the free market and competition, while denying those tools to conventional Medicare. The real beneficiaries are not patients, or the elderly who need reasonably priced prescription drugs, but the pharmaceutical and insurance corporations whose campaign contributions distort the political process.

H. Jack Geiger, M.D.
Brooklyn, Nov. 14, 2006

The writer is emeritus professor of community medicine, City University of New York Medical School.

To the Editor:
 Regarding the Democrats' proposal to negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs, since Medicare is the biggest single purchaser of prescription drugs, won't a discount for the government mean that the rest of us who are paying full price will have to pay even more?
 We have a market system that determines prices for drugs. When we start messing with it -- even when the cause is noble -- we just end up creating inefficiencies and price distortions that hurt the overall economy.

Michael Van Winkle
Chicago, Nov. 15, 2006

The writer is manager for media relations of the Heartland Institute.

To the Editor:
 Your own past reports, in addition to my own experience and accounts from friends and family, indicate that prescription drug prices have risen since the inception of Medicare Part D. Yet you say Secretary Michael O. Leavitt asserts that Medicare doesn't need to negotiate Big Pharma's rates because the ''robust marketplace with a lot of competitors has driven down prices.''
 Your article notes that a potential obstacle to swift Congressional action is that some lawmakers ''may want to hold hearings.'' Bring 'em on! It will be interesting to learn if the administration is lying once again or if Mr. Leavitt and his boss are simply misinformed.

John Glasel
Hoboken, N.J., Nov. 13, 2006

The writer is secretary of Health Care for All/New Jersey.

To the Editor:
 Re ''Lowering Medicare Drug Prices'' (editorial, Nov. 14):
 The present role of the government is to manage the competition among private-sector Medicare drug plans, to serve as a honest broker, to level the playing field. This role is incompatible with the government creating its own entry into the competition, possibly using its vast resources to subsidize its own plan.
 It is good that you recognize that ''there is no guarantee that government negotiators would do better'' than private sector negotiators. It would be better for the government to focus on creating a path for generic biologics to enter the market, and on enforcing the limits on lengths of patents, which the drug companies try to extend by artificial maneuvers.

Alain Enthoven
Stanford, Calif., Nov. 14, 2006

The writer is emeritus professor of management at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lewis Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); AGING (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); WRITERS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Heartland Institute; Health Care for All (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (79%) Marcia Feingold; H Jack (Dr) Geiger; Mike Van Winkle; John Glasel; Alain Enthoven; Michael O (Sec) Leavitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006



479 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: In City Symbolizing U.S. Defeat in Vietnam, Bush Stresses the Prosperous Present

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, Monday, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush ventured into this booming, wildly capitalist commercial center of an ostensibly Communist Vietnam on Monday morning, speeding off to the stock exchange to talk with local business leaders before preparing for a quick visit to Indonesia.
 His visit here, where he was also to tour the government-run Pasteur Institute to highlight work on avian flu and AIDS prevention and treatment, concludes three days in the country that have been dominated by his efforts to hold together reluctant partners -- notably China, South Korea and Russia -- to step up pressure to dismantle the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea.
 In both cases, he found progress agonizingly slow, though there was more evidence of unity in dealing with North Korea. 
 On Sunday, Mr. Bush formally signed an agreement that paves the way for Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization, a step that China took years ago and that Russia has long struggled to match. 
 As he has throughout his trip, Mr. Bush has avoided dwelling on America's past with Vietnam, though it is difficult in a city like this one, filled with so much potent symbolism of American defeat. 
 For many Americans, the imagery of this teeming, chaotic place is fixed in 1975, when the last Americans were evacuated by helicopter. Mr. Bush sped past the evacuation spot on his arrival here, but made no stops that would invite comparisons to the current debate over whether the United States should stay or retreat from Iraq. 
 He steered clear of the other sites that so dominated American politics in his youth, and spent the night at one of the gleaming new hotels that dot the skyline, rather than one of the old haunts, like the Continental, the Rex and the Caravelle, where official Washington once struggled to manage a losing effort.
 Instead, he made an unannounced stop for dinner with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia at a trendy restaurant in a neighborhood that symbolizes the new Saigon -- the name local people insist on using for a city that was renamed immediately after the Communist victory. 
 After dinner, Mr. Bush mounted the running board of his waiting limousine and waved to a crowd of curious, mostly younger Vietnamese who jammed the streets as news of his arrival spread. There were muted cheers.
 In a trip that has focused relentlessly on the future, Mr. Bush urged China's leader, Hu Jintao, to create ''a nation of consumers and not savers, which will inure to the benefit of our manufacturers, both large and small, and our farmers, as well.'' It was an echo of what Mr. Bush's father used to urge in his visits to Japan, in hopes of closing the trade gap. 
 At the meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Hanoi over the weekend, Mr. Bush talked about exploring new free trade arrangements for Asia -- a long-sought but still distant goal -- and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice used the case of Vietnam as an instructive example of economic reform.
 In a speech in Hanoi, she said that ''20 years ago the leaders of Vietnam took a hard look at their isolated economy, and they made a strategic choice to begin reforms.'' In fact, they have turned to serious reforms only in recent years.
 Mr. Bush's spokesmen said that he and the leaders of Japan and China saw ''eye to eye'' on steps needed to press North Korea. 
 But the spokesmen did not use those words to describe talks with the South Koreans, who have been particularly reluctant to fully join efforts to intercept suspected illicit shipments of arms, or to cut off economic links after the North's nuclear test.
 Christopher R. Hill, the chief American negotiator with North Korea, is to fly to Beijing this week to try to work out a mix of incentives for the North and to persuade the Chinese to push for a symbolically important dismantling of part of North Korea's weapons complex. That last step is one the North Koreans have not yet indicated they are ready to take before negotiations resume.
 Russia has continued to balk about imposing major sanctions against Iran, which has continued to defy a United Nations Security Council call for full suspension of its enrichment of uranium. 
 Rather than dwell on those differences in public, Russian and American officials celebrated an agreement to allow Russia to enter the W.T.O. after 10 years of stop-and-go negotiations, and talks that began shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 ''We support Russia's accession into the W.T.O.,'' President Bush announced in Hanoi after a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin on the outskirts of the Asia-Pacific meeting. 
 American officials said the agreement with Russia was reached in principle more than a week ago, after the two countries gradually worked out nagging disputes on issues like agriculture inspections, chicken exports to Russia and intellectual property protection. 
 Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, said the pact should bring a significant increase to global trade.
 Her Russian counterpart, Economy Minister German Gref, was equally effusive at the signing ceremony on Sunday. ''Undoubtedly, this agreement is a very substantial milestone in the full integration of Russia into the global economy,'' he said.
 Mr. Putin has repeatedly said that joining the W.T.O. is a major foreign policy goal, although Russia's oil-driven economy will get few direct gains from membership in the organization, which sets the ground rules for globalization. But joining would give Russia a voice in world trade talks, with the potential to help set future trade policy.
 The agreement with the United States means that Russia has passed the last major barrier to its entry into the 149-member world trade entity.
 But Russia still must win approval from Moldova and Georgia, countries with grievances over a Russian ban on importing wine. Those countries could further delay a final deal on W.T.O. membership, although trade officials have said they expect that Russia will manage to find a way to resolve the issue.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, was hugged by a restaurant employee after a meal last night in Ho Chi Minh City. (Photo by Jim Watson/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%); AIDS & HIV (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Vietnam War; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%) World Trade Organization; Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HU JINTAO (58%); JOHN HOWARD (56%) David E Sanger; Helene Cooper; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); VIETNAM (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ASIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iran; North Korea; Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam); Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006



480 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: A Free-for-All on Science and Religion

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:
Maybe the pivotal moment came when Steven Weinberg, a Nobel laureate in physics, warned that ''the world needs to wake up from its long nightmare of religious belief,'' or when a Nobelist in chemistry, Sir Harold Kroto, called for the John Templeton Foundation to give its next $1.5 million prize for ''progress in spiritual discoveries'' to an atheist -- Richard Dawkins, the Oxford evolutionary biologist whose book ''The God Delusion'' is a national best-seller.
 Or perhaps the turning point occurred at a more solemn moment, when Neil deGrasse Tyson, director of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City and an adviser to the Bush administration on space exploration, hushed the audience with heartbreaking photographs of newborns misshapen by birth defects -- testimony, he suggested, that blind nature, not an intelligent overseer, is in control.
Somewhere along the way, a forum this month at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, Calif., which might have been one more polite dialogue between science and religion, began to resemble the founding convention for a political party built on a single plank: in a world dangerously charged with ideology, science needs to take on an evangelical role, vying with religion as teller of the greatest story ever told. 
 Carolyn Porco, a senior research scientist at the Space Science Institute in Boulder, Colo., called, half in jest, for the establishment of an alternative church, with Dr. Tyson, whose powerful celebration of scientific discovery had the force and cadence of a good sermon, as its first minister.
 She was not entirely kidding. ''We should let the success of the religious formula guide us,'' Dr. Porco said. ''Let's teach our children from a very young age about the story of the universe and its incredible richness and beauty. It is already so much more glorious and awesome -- and even comforting -- than anything offered by any scripture or God concept I know.'' 
 She displayed a picture taken by the Cassini spacecraft of Saturn and its glowing rings eclipsing the Sun, revealing in the shadow a barely noticeable speck called Earth.
 There has been no shortage of conferences in recent years, commonly organized by the Templeton Foundation, seeking to smooth over the differences between science and religion and ending in a metaphysical draw. Sponsored instead by the Science Network, an educational organization based in California, and underwritten by a San Diego investor, Robert Zeps (who acknowledged his role as a kind of ''anti-Templeton''), the La Jolla meeting, ''Beyond Belief: Science, Religion, Reason and Survival,'' rapidly escalated into an invigorating intellectual free-for-all. (Unedited video of the proceedings will be posted on the Web at tsntv.org.)
 A presentation by Joan Roughgarden, a Stanford University biologist, on using biblical metaphor to ease her fellow Christians into accepting evolution (a mutation is ''a mustard seed of DNA'') was dismissed by Dr. Dawkins as ''bad poetry,'' while his own take-no-prisoners approach (religious education is ''brainwashing'' and ''child abuse'') was condemned by the anthropologist Melvin J. Konner, who said he had ''not a flicker'' of religious faith, as simplistic and uninformed.
 After enduring two days of talks in which the Templeton Foundation came under the gun as smudging the line between science and faith, Charles L. Harper Jr., its senior vice president, lashed back, denouncing what he called ''pop conflict books'' like Dr. Dawkins's ''God Delusion,'' as ''commercialized ideological scientism'' -- promoting for profit the philosophy that science has a monopoly on truth. 
 That brought an angry rejoinder from Richard P. Sloan, a professor of behavioral medicine at Columbia University Medical Center, who said his own book, ''Blind Faith: The Unholy Alliance of Religion and Medicine,'' was written to counter ''garbage research'' financed by Templeton on, for example, the healing effects of prayer.
 With atheists and agnostics outnumbering the faithful (a few believing scientists, like Francis S. Collins, author of ''The Language of God: A Scientist Presents Evidence for Belief,'' were invited but could not attend), one speaker after another called on their colleagues to be less timid in challenging teachings about nature based only on scripture and belief. ''The core of science is not a mathematical model; it is intellectual honesty,'' said Sam Harris, a doctoral student in neuroscience and the author of ''The End of Faith: Religion, Terror and the Future of Reason'' and ''Letter to a Christian Nation.'' 
 ''Every religion is making claims about the way the world is,'' he said. ''These are claims about the divine origin of certain books, about the virgin birth of certain people, about the survival of the human personality after death. These claims purport to be about reality.''
 By shying away from questioning people's deeply felt beliefs, even the skeptics, Mr. Harris said, are providing safe harbor for ideas that are at best mistaken and at worst dangerous. ''I don't know how many more engineers and architects need to fly planes into our buildings before we realize that this is not merely a matter of lack of education or economic despair,'' he said.
 Dr. Weinberg, who famously wrote toward the end of his 1977 book on cosmology, ''The First Three Minutes,'' that ''the more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it also seems pointless,'' went a step further: ''Anything that we scientists can do to weaken the hold of religion should be done and may in the end be our greatest contribution to civilization.''
 With a rough consensus that the grand stories of evolution by natural selection and the blossoming of the universe from the Big Bang are losing out in the intellectual marketplace, most of the discussion came down to strategy. How can science fight back without appearing to be just one more ideology?
 ''There are six billion people in the world,'' said Francisco J. Ayala, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Irvine, and a former Roman Catholic priest. ''If we think that we are going to persuade them to live a rational life based on scientific knowledge, we are not only dreaming -- it is like believing in the fairy godmother.''
 ''People need to find meaning and purpose in life,'' he said. ''I don't think we want to take that away from them.''
 Lawrence M. Krauss, a physicist at Case Western Reserve University known for his staunch opposition to teaching creationism, found himself in the unfamiliar role of playing the moderate. ''I think we need to respect people's philosophical notions unless those notions are wrong,'' he said.
 ''The Earth isn't 6,000 years old,'' he said. ''The Kennewick man was not a Umatilla Indian.'' But whether there really is some kind of supernatural being -- Dr. Krauss said he was a nonbeliever -- is a question unanswerable by theology, philosophy or even science. ''Science does not make it impossible to believe in God,'' Dr. Krauss insisted. ''We should recognize that fact and live with it and stop being so pompous about it.''
 That was just the kind of accommodating attitude that drove Dr. Dawkins up the wall. ''I am utterly fed up with the respect that we -- all of us, including the secular among us -- are brainwashed into bestowing on religion,'' he said. ''Children are systematically taught that there is a higher kind of knowledge which comes from faith, which comes from revelation, which comes from scripture, which comes from tradition, and that it is the equal if not the superior of knowledge that comes from real evidence.''
 By the third day, the arguments had become so heated that Dr. Konner was reminded of ''a den of vipers.'' 
 ''With a few notable exceptions,'' he said, ''the viewpoints have run the gamut from A to B. Should we bash religion with a crowbar or only with a baseball bat?''
 His response to Mr. Harris and Dr. Dawkins was scathing. ''I think that you and Richard are remarkably apt mirror images of the extremists on the other side,'' he said, ''and that you generate more fear and hatred of science.''
 Dr. Tyson put it more gently. ''Persuasion isn't always 'Here are the facts -- you're an idiot or you are not,' '' he said. ''I worry that your methods'' -- he turned toward Dr. Dawkins -- ''how articulately barbed you can be, end up simply being ineffective, when you have much more power of influence.''
 Chastened for a millisecond, Dr. Dawkins replied, ''I gratefully accept the rebuke.''
 In the end it was Dr. Tyson's celebration of discovery that stole the show. Scientists may scoff at people who fall back on explanations involving an intelligent designer, he said, but history shows that ''the most brilliant people who ever walked this earth were doing the same thing.'' When Isaac Newton's ''Principia Mathematica'' failed to account for the stability of the solar system -- why the planets tugging at one another's orbits have not collapsed into the Sun -- Newton proposed that propping up the mathematical mobile was ''an intelligent and powerful being.''
 It was left to Pierre Simon Laplace, a century later, to take the next step. Hautily telling Napoleon that he had no need for the God hypothesis, Laplace extended Newton's mathematics and opened the way to a purely physical theory.
 ''What concerns me now is that even if you're as brilliant as Newton, you reach a point where you start basking in the majesty of God and then your discovery stops -- it just stops,'' Dr. Tyson said. ''You're no good anymore for advancing that frontier, waiting for somebody else to come behind you who doesn't have God on the brain and who says: 'That's a really cool problem. I want to solve it.' ''
 ''Science is a philosophy of discovery; intelligent design is a philosophy of ignorance,'' he said. ''Something fundamental is going on in people's minds when they confront things they don't understand.''
 He told of a time, more than a millennium ago, when Baghdad reigned as the intellectual center of the world, a history fossilized in the night sky. The names of the constellations are Greek and Roman, Dr. Tyson said, but two-thirds of the stars have Arabic names. The words ''algebra'' and ''algorithm'' are Arabic.
 But sometime around 1100, a dark age descended. Mathematics became seen as the work of the devil, as Dr. Tyson put it. ''Revelation replaced investigation,'' he said, and the intellectual foundation collapsed.
 He did not have to say so, but the implication was that maybe a century, maybe a millennium from now, the names of new planets, stars and galaxies might be Chinese. Or there may be no one to name them at all.
 Before he left to fly back home to Austin, Dr. Weinberg seemed to soften for a moment, describing religion a bit fondly as a crazy old aunt.
 ''She tells lies, and she stirs up all sorts of mischief and she's getting on, and she may not have that much life left in her, but she was beautiful once,'' he lamented. ''When she's gone, we may miss her.''
 Dr. Dawkins wasn't buying it. ''I wont miss her at all,'' he said. ''Not a scrap. Not a smidgen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: 'GOD DELUSION' -- The author Richard Dawkins, with a book, says people are brainwashed to respect religion. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times
 below, Tad Majewski)(pg. F6)Drawing (Drawing by Tad Majewski)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); CREATIONISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); EVOLUTION THEORY (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (74%); SPACE INDUSTRY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); SPACECRAFT (69%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (69%) Evolution; Christians and Christianity; Creationism and Intelligent Design; Science and Technology; Evolution

PERSON: George Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SATURN (79%); COLORADO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%) La Jolla (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



481 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Just Thinking About Money Can Turn the Mind Stingy

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
One of the most comforting versions of the American dream includes becoming not only rich, respected and glamorous, but also a soft touch: generous with time and money, a philanthropist-mensch, a nurturing prince or princess of industry. 
 But if a paper published last week in the journal Science is any measure, that impulse to share does not come naturally to anyone who is thinking about money, even unconsciously. 
In a series of experiments, psychologists found that subconscious reminders of money prompted people to become more independent in their work, less likely to seek help from others or to provide it. They became reluctant to volunteer their time and stingy when asked to donate to a worthy cause. 
 ''Everybody says that if they had the money, they'd give more away, they'd do what Warren Buffett did,'' said Kathleen D. Vohs, lead author of the study, referring to the financier who recently donated more than $30 billion of his assets to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
 ''Well, we thought that that was a nice thing to bring into the lab, to test in a variety of ways,'' added Dr. Vohs, a psychologist in the University of Minnesota school of management. 
 Her co-authors were Nicole Mead of Florida State University and Miranda Goode, a graduate student in marketing at the University of British Columbia. 
 In one experiment, involving 52 undergraduates, the students unscrambled sets of jumbled phrases. One group untangled phrases that were often about money like ''high a salary paying.'' A second group solved word puzzles that did not refer to money. 
 The researchers then had the students work on a difficult abstract puzzle that stumps most people and offered to help if the students wanted it. Those who had been thinking about money worked on the problem an average of more than five minutes before asking for help, almost 70 percent longer than the others. 
 By ''priming'' unconscious thoughts in similar ways, the researchers found that students with money on their minds, while clearly self-reliant, were less likely than peers who had not been primed to lend assistance: twice as slow to help a confused student on a word problem and about twice as cheap when asked to donate to help needy students. 
 Having money on the mind even caused the students to put more distance -- literally -- between themselves and others. Instructed to place two chairs together to meet another student, they put the chairs about 47 inches apart, compared with 31 inches for the students who had not been prompted.
 The researchers say this effect of money is plainly evident in everyday life. People with resources do not recruit friends to help run a party. They hire a caterer. Students with money do not give a moving party with pizza. They hire a mover.
 ''We know there is a civilizing side to money, that people acting in a self-interested fashion depend on fellow humans in a community and tend to treat them fairly,'' said George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''But this study shows its pernicious side, how the pursuit of money can be isolating. 
 ''This study really came out of the blue. I don't know of any precedent for this work.'' 
 In the study, people's personal attributes made little difference. This effect of money on behavior was as strong in women as in men, and it did not change with the students' backgrounds. Daughters of high-end bankers behaved just like sons of plumbers. 
 ''And none of them realized the studies were about money,'' Dr. Vohs said. ''It was all unconscious.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); WRITERS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); CATERING SERVICES (60%) Personal Finances; Consumer Behavior; Research; Life Styles

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (82%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (55%) University of Minnesota; Science (Journal)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (57%) Benedict Carey; Kathleen D (Dr) Vohs

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



482 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Flaws Seen In Markets For Utilities

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
A growing chorus of large industrial power users, municipal utilities and consumer groups say there is a reason the price of electricity has not fallen since the federal government opened the heavily regulated utility industry to competition a decade ago. The new markets, they argue, do not work right.
 They point to a variety of reasons.
For one thing, when electricity producers offer to supply power for use the next day, utilities pay everyone the highest price accepted. One study in Texas, where electricity bills have been rising sharply, found that because of this auction system, consumers pay a lot more than they would have under the old system where the state regulated prices.
 They also contend that producers can withhold power or limit production, with little risk of penalty, even when demand is at its highest, meaning prices soar. 
 ''Shutting down a power plant in July is like the mall closing on the weekend before Christmas, but in July last year, 20 percent of generating capacity was shut down in California,'' said Robert McCullough, an economist whose Oregon consulting business is advising some of those contending in lawsuits that prices are being manipulated. 
 The government agency that oversees the electricity market -- the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission -- set the rules before allowing market prices for electricity to replace regulated prices. A coalition of large industrial companies filed a complaint in September, arguing that the energy commission had failed to ensure proper competition and that it had stymied efforts by others to investigate allegations of improper conduct by withholding some of the data it collects.
 ''The 'markets' that are rolling off the commission's production line are not fit for their public purpose,'' wrote Robert A. Weishaar Jr., the lawyer for the industrial companies.
 The commission dismisses the critics, saying that where it has determined that a market for electricity exists, the prices in that market are assumed to be ''just and reasonable,'' the standard set in federal law. The commission's rules seek to curb monopoly power, but not oligopoly power, in which a few firms control the market. The commission says that anyone manipulating markets will be discovered either by the monitors in each regional market, by competitors or utilities that buy power, by the commission or even by the public. 
 Allowing producers of electricity to compete for utility customers should assure the lowest possible price, the commission says. 
 But the opposite has sometimes been true.
 For eight hours last May, for example, the price of a megawatt of power in New England leaped from about $50 to almost $1,000. The region's electricity exchange attributes the spike to congested transmission lines, but has kept the identities of the high bidders secret. 
 Its own studies say that the exchange's rules make it possible to inflate prices artificially during periods of high demand and that at least one producer has manipulated prices in the past, though its identity was not disclosed.
 Officials of other exchanges all said they had strict rules to ensure that capacity is not withheld from the market to inflate prices artificially.
 But critics of the current system have found ammunition in a study at Carnegie Mellon University by Sarosh N. Talukdar, who used computer models to simulate a market in which 10 utilities bought electricity and 10 producers sold it. 
 In that experiment, the buyers and sellers learned to manipulate the price within 100 rounds of bidding, capturing from 50 percent to 90 percent of the prices an unregulated monopoly would have charged. Instead of falling, prices soared.
 Earlier experiments at Cornell University and George Mason University found the same thing, with simulated trading by students, professors and even members of Congress. 
 Such high prices suggest collusion, which is illegal in real markets, but collusion was impossible in Professor Talukdar's experiments because the trades were made by simple computer programs, not humans. 
 ''My studies show it is easy to learn from the signals given by others how to get the benefits of colluding without breaking the law,'' Professor Talukdar said.
 ''Economists have this faith in markets, this blind faith that markets are always a good thing,'' the professor said, ''but the design of markets matters a great deal and the design must be verified to see if it really works as a free market.''
 Professor Frank A. Wolak, a Stanford University economist who favors competitive pricing, said the current mix of markets for wholesale power and regulated utilities to deliver them cannot produce the benefits of competition. And he warned that ''even small flaws in the design of markets can cause enormous harm to consumers in very little time.''
 Why have prices not fallen in the electricity market, when prices dropped sharply after competition was introduced in other previously regulated industries? 
 Rising fuel costs are one major reason. But the electricity market also turns out to be different in some fundamental ways from other kinds of markets. Efforts to induce competition, the critics say, have failed to properly take that into account. 
 In the markets for everything from stocks and commodities to real estate, airline trips and trucking services, for example, buyers always have the option to walk away from a deal -- whether the purchase be company shares, frozen pork bellies, houses, plane tickets or space in a tractor-trailer. 
 But many utilities in about half the states, including New York, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland and Texas, must buy power every day -- usually because they were encouraged or forced by regulators to sell their own generating plants and no longer produce electricity themselves.
 And every utility must buy power at some point, to meet peak demand on hot summer days.
 Unlike the stock market, where vast numbers of strangers buy and sell, the electricity markets involve a relative handful of buyers and sellers. In New Jersey, for example, just 10 generators won bids this year to supply a third of the state's base load of power for the next three years at prices 55 percent higher than the previous year's three-year bid.
 Similarly, California has 1,400 power plants, but ownership of those plants is so concentrated that just six generating companies in that state can set an artificially high price of electricity virtually all the time, research by Carnegie Mellon University shows.
 Moreover, in many markets some buyers and sellers are related, a corporate parent owning generating plants that sell to a sister utility. Often the bidders are brokers, including Wall Street investment houses like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, and that arrangement hides the identity of the real power generators.
 Trades also repeat each day, which means that those that generate power learn from not just what the weather report says about demand for power, but from the trading patterns of their competitors in producing power and the utilities that buy it.
 Another important aspect is secrecy. Individual stock investors can make sure they got a fair price by checking the prices paid just before and after their trade. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the electricity exchanges stamp many trading records confidential. 
 The federal commission's spokesman, like those for several of the exchanges on which electricity is bought and sold, said that market monitors employed by the electricity exchanges ensure the integrity of the trades. But utility customers have challenged whether the monitors are blind to price rigging and errors.
 Another factor is the very nature of electricity, which must be produced, transmitted and consumed in an instant. Car makers can cut production when vehicles do not sell. Investors who hold too much of a particular stock can sell it in blocks over time to get the best price. But electricity cannot be held in inventory.
 Finally, the electricity market appears to be particularly balanced on a fine edge. The Chadbourne Park law firm, in a newsletter for investors in electricity generating stations, cautioned that tiny changes in generating capacity could make them rich or wipe them out. It concluded that having 2 percent more generating capacity than a market needed to meet demand would mean ''very low electricity prices,'' while a 2 percent shortage of electricity would cause ''significant price spikes,'' which means outsize profits for power plant owners.

Power Play
 Articles in this series are examining the decade-long effort to overhaul the nation's electricity system. Later articles will look at successes and failures in the move toward a competitive market. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/business.


Graphs track the aforementioned. The following are also tracked:
Cumulative megawatts of power offered at each bid price
Extra profit for the bidders
ALL BIDS ACCEPTED
CAPACITY NEEDED
BID PRICE ACCEPTED AT THIS HOUR
BIDS NOT ACCEPTED

(Source by Electric Reliability Council of Texas)(pg. C4)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Paying the Highest Price for Power''In spot markets for electricity, the highest bid accepted to supply all the power needed sets the price for every generating company, including those that offered to sell power for less. This process, intended to ensure that adequate supplies are always available, also creates an incentive for companies with many power plants to withhold power and at times offer to supply small amounts of electricity at very high prices.How power bidding works . . .1. Power producers offer a bid price for the total amount of electricity that they can supply.BIDDER: #1MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $30BIDDER: #2MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $60BIDDER: #3MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $90BIDDER: #4MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $1202. The bids up to the capacity needed by the utility companies (300 megawatts in this example) for the next day are considered.BIDDER: #1MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $30BIDDER: #2MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $60BIDDER: #3MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $903. The highest winning bid is $90, and every producer who bid less gets that amount.BIDDER: #1MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $90BIDDER: #2MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $90BIDDER: #3MEGWATTS: 100BID PRICE PER MEGAWAT HOUR: $90. . . and how it played out in real life.Below are bids on March 6, 2003, at the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, a state-sponsored exchange. The state has not publicly identified the high bidder. Almost identical patterns in bids made late last month are now under investigation in Texas.HOUR 7In a 15-minute segment for electricity to be delivered in the seventh hour of the day the average bid was $81 per megawatt, but the high bid needed to meet total demand was $258 per megawatt, which was the amount paid to all bidders, giving the generating companies extra profits of $150,373.HOUR 8In the following hour less power was needed, but the average bid rose a little, to $95 per megawatt. Because the high bid was $990.01, for a single megawatt, all bidders got that price, giving them extra profits of $803,374.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CARTELS (77%); ETHICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); MISCONDUCT (73%); LITIGATION (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%) Electric Light and Power; Surveys and Series; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection; Production; Ethics; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



483 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Lowe's Warning Taken in Stride

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Lowe's, the nation's second-largest home-improvement retailer, reported an increase in third-quarter profit of nearly 11 percent on Monday and warned that its fourth-quarter results would be weaker than expected. 
 But investors sent the shares higher. One analyst said investors appeared to be looking beyond the slowing housing market.
 ''The point is, everyone knows about the economic bad news; now it's time to look forward,'' a senior retail analyst with Edward Jones, Stephanie Hoff, said. ''This time next year we should see a rebound.''
 Lowe's shares rose 10 cents, to close at $30.58.
 The company said it earned $716 million, or 46 cents a share, for the three months that ended Nov. 3, up from $646 million, or 40 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Revenue rose to $11.2 billion from $10.6 billion a year earlier. But sales in stores open at least one year, or same-store sales, a crucial indicator of industry performance, fell 4 percent.
 A UBS analyst, Brian Nagel, said in a research note, ''Much slower sales trends at Lowe's lately do not bode well for prospects for the company over the next several quarters.'' 
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had been looking for net income of 43 cents a share on revenue of $11.49 billion.
 Still, net income was down from the $935 million reported in the second quarter as home improvement chains faced pressure from the weakening housing market.
 For the fourth quarter, Lowe's expects a 4 percent decline in sales from last year's $10.8 billion, implying sales of $10.37 billion and missing analysts' revenue expectations of $10.8 billion.
 Lowe's and its larger rival, Home Depot, benefited from strong American home sales and hurricane-related demand a year ago, but now face difficult comparisons as the housing market cools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HURRICANES (50%) Company Reports ; Sales; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Lowe's Companies

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (65%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



484 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

BUSINESS TRAVEL 2007 -- More than two-thirds of companies surveyed said they expected their business travelers to take more trips in 2007 than this year, according to the annual business travel overview by the National Business Travel Association. And three-quarters of the companies surveyed anticipate higher spending on air travel. The survey also found a sharp jump, to 56 percent, in the number of companies that augmented use of commercial air travel in 2006 with corporate jets (including fractional-share jets) and charter flights. That compares with 33 percent who said so in 2004. (The question was not asked in 2005.) 


THANKSGIVING TRAVEL -- Airport security lines have already begun to grow as the Thanksgiving holiday travel season begins. The Air Transport Association predicts that 25 million passengers will fly on United States airlines over the holiday period, which began last Friday and ends next Tuesday. That is a 3 percent increase over last year. Next Sunday and Monday are expected to be the busiest days. ''It is critical that passengers understand what to expect, especially given new security measures,'' said James C. May, the president of the transport association, an airline trade group. Many passengers who do not travel frequently are creating delays because they are unfamiliar with new rules on carrying liquids, gels and items like toothpaste on board a plane. The Transportation Security Administration's Web site, www.tsa.gov, has details.

RENTAL CAR SATISFACTION -- Many people may complain about rental cars, but it turns out that travelers renting cars at airports are reporting higher levels of satisfaction this year over last year, according to the J. D. Power & Associates 2006 Rental Car Satisfaction study. J. D. Power said its study found an increase in overall satisfaction in six areas: costs and fees, the pickup process, the car itself, the return process, reservations and shuttle bus or van transport. Of the major rental car companies, Enterprise ranked first in overall satisfaction, followed by Hertz, National, Avis, Alamo, Budget, Thrifty and Dollar.

BUSINESS JETS INTERNATIONAL -- Though the market in North America will still account for 60 percent of new sales of business jets over the next few years, a new factor is pushing growth in the industry -- increasing demand overseas, especially in Europe, where longstanding opposition to private jets is weakening. The General Aviation Manufacturers Association cited ''strengthening sales in Europe and into Russia, China and India,'' as contributing to record sales this year. For the first nine months of 2006, a total of 629 business jets were shipped, a 23.3 percent increase over the period last year, the trade group said. Honeywell Aerospace has predicted that a record 850 new business jets will be delivered by the end of 2006, up from 737 last year.

ECLIPSE JET STALLED -- Last month, Eclipse Aviation said it was anticipating imminent delivery of its first Eclipse 500 jet as the so-called very-light jet industry began rolling. But there has been a glitch, first reported last week by The Albuquerque Journal. Eclipse, which says it has 2,500 orders for its $1.5 million very light jet, has temporarily grounded its test jets to fix a bolt problem on wings. Vern Raburn, the Eclipse chief executive, said, ''We just misestimated as to how much time and effort it was going to take'' to get the first plane delivered. He said deliveries would begin ''well before the end of the year.'' JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKETING SURVEYS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); AVIATION SECURITY (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); THANKSGIVING (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); RANKINGS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); AIRCRAFT DEALERS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) Travel and Vacations; Airlines and Airplanes; Thanksgiving Day; Airports; Security and Warning Systems; Automobiles; Renting and Leasing ; Consumer Behavior; Travel and Vacations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Tests and Testing; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (56%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%); HONEYWELL AEROSPACE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%) National Business Travel Assn; Air Transport Association of America; Power, J D, & Associates; Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co; General Aviation Manufacturers Assn; Eclipse Aviation

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS811219 OTHER ELECTRONIC & PRECISION EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (50%); NAICS488119 OTHER AIRPORT OPERATIONS (50%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (50%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Europe; Russia; China; India

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



485 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Economic Indicators Rise Again

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
An index of leading economic indicators rose for a second month in October, the Conference Board reported yesterday.
 The index increased 0.2 percent after a revised 0.4 percent gain in September that was bigger than initially reported, the board, a private research group, based in New York, said. The index points to the direction of the economy over the next three to six months. 
Last month's rise reflected higher stock prices and more confident consumers, giving a boost to an economy hamstrung by the slumping housing market. The report reinforced forecasts by the Federal Reserve for moderate growth as cheaper fuel spurs spending and reduces business costs.
 Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit Suisse in New York, said, ''This is an encouraging sign that we may be headed out of the slowdown in coming months.'' 
 Fed officials, who have kept the benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged for the last three meetings, are counting on a slowing economy to ease inflation pressures.
 But some economists say that growth is picking up this quarter, led by consumer spending. A Bloomberg survey early this month said that the gross domestic product might expand at a 2.5 percent annual pace, up from last quarter's 1.6 percent pace.
 Forecasts by ShopperTrak RCT of Chicago said that consumers might spend 5 percent more this holiday season than in 2005, after the recent decline in gasoline prices.
 The Conference Board's index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current activity, rose 0.1 percent in October after a 0.2 percent increase the month before. The index tracks payrolls, income, sales and projections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INFLATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%) United States Economy

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



486 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 342 words

PERSON: G. Gordon Strong

HEADLINE: G. Gordon Strong, 92, Executive For Two Chains of Newspapers 

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
G. Gordon Strong, a former president and chairman of two newspaper chains and then publisher of The Oakland Tribune, died on Nov. 13 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 92 and lived in La Canada, Calif. 
 The cause was pneumonia, his son, George G. Strong Jr., said.
Mr. Strong was president of the Brush-Moore chain, which owned 12 dailies and 2 weeklies in moderate-size cities, until 1967. That year, Brush-Moore was acquired by the Thomson chain, which among other papers owned The Times of London and The Globe and Mail in Toronto, and Mr. Strong was named Thomson's chairman, a post he held until retiring in 1977.
 Two days after his retirement, Mr. Strong received a call from the Combined Communications newspaper chain, asking him to become publisher of The Oakland Tribune. In 1979, Combined Communications merged with the Gannett Company, and Mr. Strong retired again. 
 George Gordon Strong was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Dec. 28, 1913. Graduating from high school at 15, he earned two bachelor's degrees, in commerce and economics, at the University of British Columbia; a master's degree in business at Northwestern; and a law degree at the University of Toledo.
 Mr. Strong was teaching economics at Toledo in 1943 when the American Red Cross hired him as its finance director for the Mediterranean during World War II. When the war ended, Mr. Strong became assistant business manager of The Toledo Blade and over seven years, rose to business manager. 
 In 1952, he was hired as general manager of Brush-Moore, which then owned seven papers, in Ohio and Maryland. He ran the chain for 15 years, rising to president and acquiring seven more papers. Brush-Moore was sold to the Thomson chain for $72 million and by the time Mr. Strong retired as Thomson's chairman, the chain owned more than 100 publications. 
 Mr. Strong's wife of 66 years, the former Jean McDougall, died in 2001. Besides his son, who lives in La Canada, he is survived by his daughter, Jeanne Cassayre of Napa, Calif.; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (55%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (86%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (73%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (86%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



487 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: In Web World, Rich Now Envy The Superrich

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Almost anywhere else, Reid Hoffman would be considered a major success. As an early executive of PayPal, he was in the money when the company was sold to eBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion. These days, he runs a new start-up company of his own while investing in others. 
 But when greater fortunes are made -- as happened recently to three former PayPal colleagues when YouTube was sold to Google for $1.65 billion -- Mr. Hoffman said he could not avoid a twinge of envy.
''It's kind of embarrassing,'' said Mr. Hoffman, 39, whose start-up, a business-oriented social-networking site called LinkedIn, is almost four years old. ''You started a year or two earlier, and they start after you and then this thing zips right past you and gets the golden results.'' 
 Envy may be a sin in some books, but it is a powerful driving force in Silicon Valley, where technical achievements are admired but financial payoffs are the ultimate form of recognition. And now that the YouTube purchase has amplified talk of a second dot-com boom, many high-tech entrepreneurs -- successful and not so successful -- are examining their lives as measured against upstarts who have made it bigger. 
 Mr. Hoffman, who made enough from PayPal to ''retire to a comfortable upper-middle-class lifestyle,'' said he felt no spite toward peers who later hit bigger jackpots. Still, he said, ''there's always components of, 'Wow, you happened to pick the right time,' and that will always lead to some kind of implicit envy.'' 
 The envy is magnified by the fickleness of this latest wave of sudden wealth, creating some huge paydays but a small circle of winners. Partly that reflects more judicious investment of venture capital in new companies; the amount invested has risen slightly over the last year but is down 70 percent from the peak of $40 billion in 2000. 
 ''This is still a place where YouTube is a real metaphor for what's possible, just on a more selective scale,'' said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy, based in Palo Alto.
 Seven or eight years ago, when it seemed that anyone with a business plan could get rich, the finger of fortune was generous -- and democratic. By the time it occurred to people to be envious, it seemed, they were rich, too -- at least on paper. It was in Silicon Valley, after all, that the term ''sudden wealth syndrome'' entered the clinical vocabulary.
 In the end, of course, much of the paper wealth turned worthless. But now, in the wake of successes like YouTube and MySpace, which was sold last year to the News Corporation for $580 million, some people believe that the foundations for more solid success are now in place. For one thing, the viability of online advertising is no longer in doubt, as Google and others have proved.
 And the success of a YouTube can produce not only envy but also serious motivation -- in Silicon Valley and beyond. 
 ''Over all, I think things like YouTube make people reconsider the possibilities,'' said Bart Selman, a professor of computer science at Cornell. In 1999, at the tail end of the dot-com boom, Professor Selman had a start-up called Expertology, which used a Web-based system that tapped collective expertise to generate legal referrals. The business failed. ''After the dot-com bust, people were thinking, 'Maybe this is all just hype,' '' he said. 
 Now, Professor Selman said, he has seen several start-ups, like Hoovers.com and LinkedIn, successfully pursuing ideas along the lines of Expertology's mission. ''But of course, timing is everything,'' he said.
 And while he says he thinks the YouTube deal was ''a little insane,'' Professor Selman, who has watched several colleagues become highly wealthy after joining Google, is considering trying his start-up luck again, with a variant on the Expertology idea. 
 ''Maybe there's more to the economic model than we realized five years ago,'' he said. ''Maybe the new wave is a little more solid.''
 Professor Selman, 47, said that while he was careful not to ''overhype'' the new wave, he routinely tells his students that they have a good chance of starting the next Google or YouTube. ''I believe there are still many opportunities out there that we cannot even conceive of at this point,'' he said.
 With rewards of that scale on the horizon, the pressure to make a fortune can be enormous, and people have different ways of coping with it. Some find inspiration in others' success, while some spend tremendous amounts of psychic energy worrying about how rich their friends are. 
 Envy can even affect relationships among siblings. 
 When he was growing up in Winchester, Mass., Peter Pezaris told friends and family that he planned to become a millionaire by the age of 30 and a billionaire by 40. 
 ''I remember thinking, 'Yeah, sure, right,' '' said Mr. Pezaris's older brother, John, a computational neuroscientist at Harvard. 
 True to his word, in 1999, Peter Pezaris sold his two-year-old business, Commissioner.com, to CBS SportsLine for $46 million, three days after his 30th birthday. (The proceeds were shared among five partners; his brother was not among them.)
 Peter Pezaris, 37, who is now based in Boca Raton, Fla., said he still believed that he had ''plenty of time'' to become a billionaire by age 40 with his new start-up, Multiply.com, a social networking site. 
 This time his brother is paying closer attention. John Pezaris had helped informally with the first business; now he programs for Multiply in his spare time and has a formal stake. 
 ''I wanted to codify something for his second one,'' said John Pezaris, who is 43. ''So we came to an arrangement.'' 
 Going for success a second time is an iffy proposition in any business and is especially unpredictable in the high-tech world. It still gnaws on Mr. Hoffman, the former PayPal executive, that he passed up the chance to invest in YouTube. When YouTube was founded, Mr. Hoffman was preparing to make an investment, he says, but a venture capital firm, Sequoia Capital, edged him out by offering better terms. Sequoia could make nearly $500 million from the Google-YouTube deal. 
 ''My only real regret is I didn't go back and say, 'Hey, let me in at least a little bit,' '' he said.
 And, of course, there is the retrospective rationalizing, which is another way to cope with envy. Mr. Hoffman now does this with his missed YouTube opportunity.
 ''It looked like a couple of guys who'd built the right kind of technology'' for something that could grow, he said, ''but it could also have been an early blip.''
 Then again, Mr. Hoffman said, ''It's the big wins that keep everyone diving off the cliff.''
 Indeed, among high-tech entrepreneurs in particular, for whom enormous wealth seems within reach, it is easy to lose perspective. 
 ''It can seem like the only way to be respectable is to achieve as much as the founders of YouTube or Google,'' said Alain de Botton, author of ''Status Anxiety'' (Random House, 2004). 
 Reference points only make matters worse, Mr. de Botton said. He pointed to research that has been done on attractive women who feel ugly when surrounded by images of more beautiful women. ''Very often the problem isn't so much what an individual happens to look like, but the extraordinary comparisons being made,'' he said. 
 Yet one would-be entrepreneur's inspiration is another's sense of pressure. ''Cynics would say you need this kind of pressure or people won't achieve, that you only produce these great results if there's this kind of tension in the air,'' Mr. de Botton said.
 But some find a way to opt out.
 James Hong, a co-founder of Hotornot.com, a dating site, found that his $55,000 Porsche Boxster had come to symbolize the trap he often saw others in Silicon Valley fall into. Mr. Hong, 33, says Hotornot's success allowed him ''a very comfortable life without ever needing to get a job -- freedom money, as they call it.'' But he nonetheless saw himself succumbing to the envy malaise. 
 After all, his best friend, Max Levchin, was a founder of PayPal and has a net worth probably in the tens of millions.
 So in a conspicuous move to get out of the game, Mr. Hong has decided to sell his sports car and has bought a Toyota Prius.
 ''I don't want to live the life of a Boxster, because when you get a Boxster you wish you had a 911,'' he said, referring to a much more expensive Porsche. ''And you know what people who have 911s wish they had? They wish they had a Ferrari.''
 Mr. Hong said his most effective coping mechanism for feeling outstripped by his friends' wealth -- beyond his choice of cars -- is to try to put it out of his mind.
 ''The only way I've dealt with it over time is to consciously decide not to care,'' he said. Still, he confesses: ''Every now and then, when I hear they're getting a certain valuation, I think, 'I need that, too.' There's a little devil inside all of us that says, Why not you?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Pezaris, right, missed out on the sale of a start-up by his brother Peter, left
he now has a stake in a new venture, a social networking site.
 James Hong, a co-founder of the dating site Hotornot.com, said that for him, the site's success meant ''freedom money.'' He is making a symbolic switch in cars, from a Porsche Boxster, right, to a Toyota Prius. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%) Computers and the Internet; Life Styles ; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (91%); NEWS CORP (60%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Paypal; Youtube; Google.com; Hotornot.com

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: Reid Hoffman; Katie Hafner; John Pezaris; Peter Pezaris; James Hong

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



488 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: A Discredit to the United Nations

 BODY:
The old, unreformed United Nations Human Rights Commission was selective and one-sided, but occasionally managed to do some good work. That may be more than can be said for its successor body, the Human Rights Council, born earlier this year of a weak-kneed compromise from which the United States stood honorably apart. If this is the best the U.N. can do at reforming itself, it isn't worth the effort. 
 The council is new, but its deliberations have already fallen into a shameful pattern. When it comes to the world's worst and most consistent human rights violators, like China, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar and Sudan, there has been a tendency to muffle words and conclusions and shift the focus from individual and political rights to broader economic and social questions.
But when it comes to criticizing Israel for violations committed in a wartime context that includes armed attacks against its citizens and soldiers, the council seems to change personality, turning harshly critical and uninterested in broader contexts.
 As the council prepares to resume deliberations next week, an ad hoc coalition of human rights violators is pushing for an end to the practice of singling out individual countries for special criticism and follow-up investigations. 
 Those critical reports and follow-ups were the most useful thing the old unreformed commission used to do. The problem was that many other deserving targets were shielded by their diplomatic allies. Moving away from the practice altogether would be a decided step backward. 
 To inspire respect and support, the United Nations must be more than a self-protective club of sovereign states. The test of that is whether it is willing to defend the basic human standards embodied in a succession of United Nations declarations and conventions. The new Human Rights Council now seems headed for a failing midterm grade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%) Freedom and Human Rights; Editorials; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations Human Rights Council; United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



489 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Rejecting the Draft

 BODY:
There are many reasons why we are distressed to hear that Representative Charles Rangel of New York plans to reintroduce his annual measure aimed at resurrecting the draft when the Democrats take control of the House in January. We don't favor military conscription in general. And in this particular case, compelling military service won't achieve the things Mr. Rangel says he wants, either. 
 Mr. Rangel wants to replenish an Army that is in critical condition, make the armed services more equitably representative of American society as a whole, and find a way to prevent future presidents from embarking on military misadventures. Those are laudable goals, but not ones the nation can achieve by bringing back the draft.
Even if the draft was a good idea, it would be politically impossible to achieve. Members of Congress are well aware that their constituents oppose it. This White House has never been willing to ask the American public to do anything but accept more tax cuts; it's hardly going to embrace something as difficult and unpopular as military conscription.
 But the idea is flawed as well. Because of the dire situation in Iraq, the Army is indeed having trouble meeting its yearly quota of 80,000 recruits. Yet military leaders nevertheless oppose a draft. They believe you don't get a highly skilled Army by forcing people to serve against their will, and they are right.
 The draft would not demonstrate to young people that everyone must do his or her fair share. It is more likely to convince them that the demand for sacrifice is made mainly on those too poor to avoid it. The volunteer force in Iraq has been a truer cross section of America than the force created under the last draft, which ended in 1973, before the end of the Vietnam War. The wealthy and well-connected could get deferments then or assignments to safe alternatives, and many did. While there are plenty of underprivileged in the current force, at least they are there by their own choosing.
 The problem with the draft does not lie in the fact that it requires young people to spend some time contributing to the nation's well-being before they embark on their life careers. We wish the president had called for such sacrifices after Sept. 11, 2001, when so many Americans were aching to contribute.
 For those young people who do not feel moved by patriotism or propelled by economics to enlist in the military, there should be other options for national service -- like AmeriCorps. These programs need money and attention. Some of the potential candidates for president in 2008 have said the United States should require all young people to devote a year or two to service after high school or college, and that idea should be debated during the upcoming campaign. 
 But the urgency of the Army's current needs requires a different solution. There are many ways for the armed services to meet their recruitment goals outside of general conscription. After all, the Army's annual quota of 80,000 recruits is barely a drop in the ocean of some 60 million Americans between 18 and 35. Forcing the issue, with a draft, is no solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Law and Legislation; United States International Relations

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (91%) Charles B (Rep) Rangel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



490 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Studying Autism Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By Cathryn Garland and Michael O'Hanlon. 
Cathryn Garland is a director at Discovery Communications. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.

DATELINE: Bethesda, Md. 

 BODY:
WITH the recent Senate passage of the Combating Autism Act, the House is now poised to approve landmark legislation to help scientists understand the causes and characteristics of autism -- a spectrum of neurological disorders affecting more than 1 in 200 children in the United States. If the House does as we hope and passes the act, the National Institutes of Health and related health research agencies will finally begin to devote the magnitude of resources -- nearly $200 million a year -- commensurate with the severity and prevalence of this terribly devastating set of conditions.
 The research emphasis of the act is appropriate, given how little is still known about the causes and the physiology of autism spectrum disorders, as well as the means by which medical treatments can reduce autism's severity if applied early enough. Basic questions like whether the frequency of childhood vaccines today contributes to autism are still unresolved. 
As parents of a child facing these challenges, we applaud those lawmakers and fellow parents who have done so much to promote this and other initiatives. But research is not enough. We as a nation must also begin to focus seriously on treating those children who are already afflicted. At present, we are failing miserably to do so.
 In America, you have to be lucky or rich to get proper care for your young autistic child. Treatment regimens typically cost more than $50,000 annually for preschool children -- one reason proven methods are available to perhaps only 10 percent of afflicted children during those crucial years. In a few states, like New Jersey, educational systems provide therapy to preschool kids, but resources vary from county to county. Here in Maryland, our 4-year-old daughter has received an hour or two of publicly provided help a week; studies show that ideally up to 40 hours of intensive intervention are required. A handful of states, including Maryland, have established a Medicaid autism waiver to allow parents of severely afflicted children to obtain relevant services independent of income. 
 But limited funds constrain those services even where they exist. Earlier this year, we put our daughter on Maryland's autism waiver waiting list -- and were told that she was No. 1,519, corresponding to an expected delay of several years before services would be available.
 We are still lucky. Thanks to the farsightedness and generosity of one of our employers, most of the money needed for our daughter is provided via insurance. But among major American corporations, only Microsoft, Home Depot and two or three others offer comparable benefits. Virtually no private health plans do. The Department of Defense has some, though it has been introducing bureaucratic obstacles to obtaining coverage that could make it inaccessible for most as a practical matter.
 If we do not help these children, we are essentially condemning them to a lifetime of disability, unemployment and, for many, institutionalization. On human grounds, this is tragic. But it's also bad economics. The few hundred thousand dollars needed to do intensive early intervention for four or five years -- while a lot -- is only one-tenth the expected cost of supporting someone for a lifetime on the dole.
 Intervention is costly because it is essentially one-on-one. Youngsters with autism spectrum disorders are hard to engage. They do not closely observe their environment or naturally imitate the actions of others. Nor do they tend to seek out human interaction and communication. Overcoming these barriers requires a highly individualized and intensive program. There is broad consensus, as reflected in previous studies by the National Academy of Sciences and American Academy of Pediatrics, that early and intensive intervention is critical. The core of most intervention plans, it is generally agreed, should be a cognitive method engaging the child's intellect and emotions and sociability. 
 Insurance companies and others often deny coverage by arguing that treatment methods are experimental, but that assertion no longer holds water. Studies now show that 40 percent to 50 percent of toddlers undergoing intensive Applied Behavior Analysis, one of the best-known methods, can be mainstreamed in regular classrooms without personal aides by the time they reach school age. (The figure is close to zero for children not given special care.) Most of the other 50 percent to 60 percent make notable progress too. The applied behavior method breaks down learning into simple steps with one-on-one tutoring, in a manner somewhat akin to the way Helen Keller was taught. Other applied behavior approaches involve reinforcing appropriate behaviors in daily life and creating opportunities for social interaction.
 In the early 1990s, Dr. Stanley Greenspan developed a competing method. Commonly known as Floortime, it focuses on core autism deficits -- emotional, social and imaginative abilities -- by harnessing a child's natural interests and tailoring interactions to specific skills and challenges. It involves interactive play, as well as activities that vary a child's environment to teach language concepts in a realistic way.
 At a conference last December at the Brookings Institution, Dr. Greenspan, while making a strong case for Floortime, also recognized applied behavior's potential for children on the autism spectrum. As parents using a blend of approaches with our child, we have been encouraged to see that they increasingly draw on one another's insights and activities. (A third cognitive method, called relationship development intervention, also focuses on core autism deficits.) So while vigorous debate continues over optimal therapy, there is no longer any doubt that the main methods work.
 Once the Combating Autism Act is passed, and we hold out hope for the next generation, it is time to rescue the children who already are afflicted. Our options range from mandating that insurance companies cover therapies documented to work, to trumpeting the example of places that do provide coverage in the hope others will follow, to expanding autism Medicaid waivers.
 The autism community is encouraged by the recent attention to this profound set of disabilities. But as a nation, we have been letting down 25,000 more children every year. Good will is not enough.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jordin Isip)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTISM (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MEDICAID (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); VACCINES (55%) Autism; Law and Legislation; Research; Children and Youth

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Michael O'Hanlon; Cathryn Garland

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



491 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Boy's Wish: Kill Them All

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: GOZ BEIDA, Chad 

 BODY:
''If I had a gun,'' Ismail Hassan said venomously from his hospital bed, ''I would shoot Arabs.''
 ''Surely not women and children?'' I remonstrated.
''Every one of them,'' Ismail snarled.
 Ismail is a 15-year-old boy, and that conversation underscores how Chad is falling off a cliff, with escalating hatreds, violence and insecurity. He is a member of one of the black African tribes now being hunted down by the Sudanese-sponsored janjaweed Arab militia, at first in Darfur alone and now in Chad as well. 
 After the janjaweed attacked his village and shot his father, Ismail raced forward to cover his father's body with his own. That courage didn't move the janjaweed, who simply shot Ismail as well. 
 The genocide that started in Darfur in 2003 is now threatening to topple the governments of Chad and the Central African Republic. If these two countries collapse into chaos and civil war for years to come, then neighboring countries like Cameroon and Niger will be threatened as well -- and the death toll triggered by the Darfur genocide will eventually number in the millions.
 None of this was -- or is -- inevitable. In late 2003 and early 2004, some Republican appointees in the Bush administration (particularly in the Agency for International Development) were among the first to push for a government response to the slaughter in Darfur, but the White House wasn't interested. 
 Then in 2004, Colin Powell boldly used the ''genocide'' label to describe Darfur, over initial Pentagon and White House objections, and several of his aides drafted a set of policy options to confront the genocide. Those included pushing the French to use fighter aircraft from their base in Chad to intimidate the janjaweed, pushing Egypt to be more involved, recruiting peacekeeping troops from Pakistan and Bangladesh, and generally using American diplomatic muscle to push harder for a solution.
 None of those things happened, partly because of reluctance from the White House and Pentagon, and partly because of resistance from France and other countries. So the genocide in Darfur has steadily expanded.
 Arabs here in Chad repeatedly complain now that the black Africans steal their cattle, poison their wells, occupy their land, and shoot at them. I don't see much basis to those charges, for the Arabs have assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenades (supplied by the Sudanese), while the black Africans have bows and arrows, but this narrative is widely held among Arabs.
 ''We consider them our enemies and they consider us their enemies,'' said Brahim Wadia, the patriarch of a group of Arabs who were grazing their cattle on what had been a black African farm. ''So each side will shoot the other and kill the other.''
 Mr. Brahim and most members of his entourage were light-skinned, and they were civil to me (considering it white solidarity?). But that same morning nearby, several black Africans who tried to recover food from their burned and abandoned village were shot dead.
 One person in Mr. Brahim's party was a boy of about 13 with black skin who looked unlike the others. He appeared physically unable to speak, and it wasn't clear if he had been hired as a herdsman or captured in a raid and enslaved.
 The most common question I get from readers about Darfur is: What can I do? The simplest answer is to write or call the White House and members of Congress. (See how your representative does on the issue at www.darfurscores.org). Imagine if Mr. Bush had made Darfur an important issue at the Asian summit meeting last week, if he had returned via Cairo for a meeting with Arab leaders, if he had dispatched Condi Rice to Chad to shore it up.
 Beyond pushing our own government, we can write the embassies of countries like France and Egypt that could play especially crucial roles. The same is true of China, which provides Sudan the guns used to shoot children like Ismail. We in the news business, including Arab and European television networks, could use a few pokes to appreciate that genocide is newsworthy.
 The heroic efforts of aid groups in Darfur and Chad -- 13 aid workers have been killed in Darfur since May -- deserve support as well. (I list some groups active in Darfur in my blog, nytimes.com/ontheground.) The aid workers risk their lives daily to try to save people, putting up with janjaweed, scorpions, camel spiders and pit toilets inhabited by bats. They can use our backup.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CIVIL WAR (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); FIREARMS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PEACEKEEPING (70%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (62%); ARMED FORCES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (98%); CHAD (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); NIGER (79%); CAMEROON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%) Sudan; Chad; Darfur (Sudan); Central African Republic; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



492 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief Urges 'Balance' in Regulation of U.S. Companies

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said yesterday that excessive regulation and burdensome litigation were prompting companies to choose to list their stock on foreign exchanges over American ones.
 In a speech in New York on the competitiveness of the United States capital markets, Mr. Paulson said that a wave of revisions to federal laws and regulations after the Enron and WorldCom scandals had improved transparency and accountability at companies and restored investor confidence. But he also suggested that lawmakers and regulators had gone too far and that it was time for a reassessment.
''When it comes to regulation, balance is key,'' he told the Economic Club of New York. ''And striking the right balance requires us to consider the economic implications of our actions. Excessive regulation slows innovation, imposes needless costs on investors, and stifles competitiveness and job creation. At the same time, we should not engage in a regulatory race to the bottom, seeking to eliminate necessary safeguards for investors in a quest to reduce costs.'' 
 The speech echoed the arguments made by some business groups, which have been pressing the Bush administration and senior Republicans and Democrats in Congress for relief from some regulations as well as criminal prosecutions and civil lawsuits from investors. 
 But institutional investors and some experts argue that a significant loosening of the rules will be harmful to shareholders and may lead to more corporate problems.
 They point to other factors as more important reasons some companies are choosing to list overseas. The quality of the financial statements of some companies that have recently listed their shares abroad, they note, may be too poor to meet even earlier American standards. They also point to significantly lower underwriting fees in Europe and Asia than in the United States.
 The critics, meanwhile, say stock indexes in the United States have performed significantly better than their counterparts abroad over the last two years, suggesting that investors may be benefiting from the domestic regulatory regime.
 Mr. Paulson's comments came just days before the first of two influential business groups examining the same issue are to make recommendations, with the encouragement of the Bush administration, to provide broad new protections to corporations and accounting firms. 
 The speech came a few weeks before the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to propose significant limitations on the most contentious provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the 2002 law that imposed tougher accounting rules and more stringent corporate governance guidelines. The provision, Section 404, requires audits of the financial controls of publicly traded companies. 
 Mr. Paulson stopped short of calling for any legislative changes to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. But he praised the commission for taking steps to reduce the law's burdensome effect on smaller businesses.
 ''We need to implement the law in ways that better balance the benefits of the legislation with the very significant costs that it imposes, especially on small businesses,'' Mr. Paulson said. Speaking about Section 404, he said it ''should be implemented in a more efficient and cost-effective manner.''
 ''It seems clear that a significant portion of the time, energy and expense associated with implementing Section 404 might have been better focused on direct business matters that create jobs and reward shareholders,'' he said.
 The S.E.C. has indicated that it may act as early as next month to reduce the section's impact on all but the largest of companies.
 In a letter this month, Christopher Cox, the chairman of the commission, said the commission would be proposing a ''scaled standard'' that would reduce the effect of the section on companies, depending on their ''characteristics and needs.'' 
 The letter, to Mark Olson, the head of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, did not specify details of that standard. It said that the commission would also limit the application of the section to controls that could have a ''material'' effect on financial statements. It also said that the regulators would encourage auditors to rely on prior years' work and to focus on the ''areas of greatest risk.''
 Mr. Paulson, in his speech, also attacked the nation's tort law system, saying it was ''the Achilles' heel for our economy.'' Under Republican control, Congress adopted a few of the White House proposals to limit civil lawsuits, most notably one last year that sharply limited the ability of people to file class-action lawsuits against companies. But other revisions to the civil justice system were not adopted, and prospects for major legislation are dim while Congress is under Democratic control.
 Mr. Paulson did not speak about some proposals expected to be made by the two business groups to limit shareholder lawsuits. In 1995, Congress adopted legislation over the veto of President Bill Clinton that made it more difficult for investors' lawyers to bring securities law cases against companies. The law also gave greater authority to large institutional investors in such cases.
 But Mr. Paulson suggested that the administration was sympathetic to proposals by the large accounting firms for legislation or regulations that could limit their liability from shareholder lawsuits and civil cases brought by regulators and state officials.
 ''The Sarbanes-Oxley reforms were intended to increase the quality of corporate audits,'' he said. ''They have had a significant effect on the accounting industry, fundamentally altering the interactions between auditors and corporate management and boards in a number of ways, some of which are not constructive. Also, we have been left with only four major accounting firms, each of which is exposed to potentially large legal liabilities.''
 ''This may not be healthy,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in Manhattan yesterday. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); BONDS (76%); AUDITS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Ethics; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Economic Club of New York

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



493 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: British Shun A New Offer By Nasdaq

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and JAMES KANTER; Heather Timmons reported from London and James Kanter from Paris.

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The Nasdaq Stock Market has intensified a trans-Atlantic battle for the London Stock Exchange in an effort to overtake the rival New York Stock Exchange as the world's leading equity marketplace. 
 The London exchange, the largest in Europe, quickly rejected Nasdaq's $5.1 billion cash offer on Monday and said it would not meet with Nasdaq executives. Nasdaq officials said that while they still hoped to reach a friendly deal, they planned to go ahead with their offer.
The London market is attractive to Nasdaq because it has benefited from a flood of new money from Asia and the Middle East. It has lured new listings because its regulatory regimen is seen as less onerous than the oversight of stock exchanges in the United States. 
 A combination of the London market and Nasdaq would create a company with 6,400 listings and a total market capitalization of $11.3 trillion -- making it the world's biggest stock market, Nasdaq said. 
 The world's share markets are moving energetically to consolidate, under pressure from customers to reduce fees and offer global services. By merging, exchanges can pool their liquidity and offer better prices to buyers and sellers. Last week, a group of big investment banks added to the pressure by announcing plans to create a pan-European stock trading platform next year.
 Reaching a deal with London could help Nasdaq overtake the New York Stock Exchange's parent NYSE Group in Europe. The New York exchange and Euronext, a network of four European stock markets and a London derivatives market, are expected to ask shareholders for final approval of their planned merger in December.
 This is the second time this year that Nasdaq has offered to acquire the London exchange. In March, London rejected an informal offer of $:9.50 a share. On Monday, Nasdaq made an offer of $:12.43 a share ($23.57), up more than 30 percent from March, but only 2 percent above the London exchange's closing stock price of $:12.18 on Friday.
 Much has changed since March, though. London's shareholders have rapidly turned over, and as many as a third of its investors now are thought to be hedge funds, chiefly concerned not with a company's long-term business strategy but with the highest short-term return.
 ''It is difficult to see how this is not going to go through,'' said Lynton Jones, a former head of Nasdaq's international operations and a founder of Bourse Consult in London, which advises stock exchanges. ''The London exchange is boxed into a corner.'' 
 But Nasdaq may still need to sweeten its offer. Apparently anticipating a higher bid, investors bid up the shares of the London Stock Exchange 6 percent on Monday, to $:12.91. 
 Andrew Mitchell, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton in London, said, ''It's not obvious where the L.S.E. can move next, but by not entering into negotiations with Nasdaq, they have put them in an awkward position.'' Nasdaq, he said, might be forced to offer more. 
 Yet officials at ratings agencies said that paying more could be dangerous for Nasdaq. One agency, Moody's Investors Service, put Nasdaq on review for a possible downgrading because of any additional debt that the company might take on. 
 Nasdaq has now accumulated nearly 29 percent of the London exchange's shares, enough to scare away rival suitors. It needs just over 50 percent to win control. 
 Doug Atkin, chief executive of Majestic Research in New York, said ''the really powerful thing about this is there is no alternative'' for Nasdaq rivals who hope to match the deal. 
 He added that Clara Furse, the chief executive of the London exchange, had ''the equivalent of the only beachfront property in town.'' 
 And London has been reluctant to sell. The 246-year-old exchange has turned down offers in recent years from the Macquarie Bank of Australia, Deutsche Borse of Germany and OM, owner of Nordic region markets.
 In a statement Monday, Ms. Furse said, ''Nasdaq's final offer fails to recognize the outstanding growth record and prospects of our group on a stand-alone basis, let alone the exchange's unique global position.''
 Nasdaq replied that it was ''disappointed'' by the London exchange's decision. 
 Its chief executive, Robert Greifeld, said during a call with investors that he would like to reach a deal with the approval of the London exchange's board. He ran off a long list of concessions he would make in a takeover, including leaving the London Stock Exchange's board independent, its management intact and holding Nasdaq board meetings in London. Nasdaq would also list its shares on the London exchange. 
 He said Nasdaq ''respects the strength of the London market'' and will ensure that it continues its same practices. Mr. Greifeld also pledged not to raise broker-dealer fees for users of either market for three years. Nasdaq plans to use a combination of cash, preferred stock and bank debt arranged with Bank of America and Dresdner Kleinwort to finance the deal. 
 Nasdaq expects to post an official offer this week, at which time London Stock Exchange holders have 28 days to tender their shares. That period can be extended to 60 days. In addition, 30 days after posting a formal offer, Nasdaq can buy more shares of the London exchange on the market. 
 If Nasdaq succeeds, both it and the New York Stock Exchange would face competition on other fronts. The global investment banks -- Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS -- have formally disclosed their plan to start a electronic European exchange. Predictions that such a market could take business away from the London Stock Exchange have recently weakened its share price. 
 Underlining the increasingly global market for stocks and futures, and a growing demand for cheap trading across time zones, both the New York and the London exchanges are in talks with the Tokyo stock market over possible alliances.
 On Monday, the British government said it was open to foreign ownership in London but stressed that any takeover must not threaten the current regulatory framework.
 "We are neutral with respect to the nationality of the ownership of the L.S.E.," said Ed Balls, economic secretary to the chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown. ''Our interest in the ownership of the L.S.E. is that it should not affect the existing risk-based regulatory regime under which the exchange and its members and issuers operate.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Greifeld, right, Nasdaq's chief executive, in London yesterday with his finance chief, David P. Warren. (Photo by Dylan Martinez/Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (97%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); BONDS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE GROUP INC (54%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Nasdaq Stock Market; London Stock Exchange; New York Stock Exchange; Nyse Group

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT GREIFELD (73%) Heather Timmons; James Kanter; Robert Greifeld; David P Warren

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (77%); MIDDLE EAST (72%) Europe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



494 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: A Rockefeller Plans A Huge Bequest 

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
David Rockefeller, the youngest son of John D. Rockefeller Jr., is making a $225 million bequest to the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the foundation he and his four brothers established in 1940 as a way of pooling their philanthropic efforts. The gift is the largest the foundation has received, and if it were given today, would increase its assets, which stood at $821.8 million on Aug. 31, by roughly 27 percent. It will be used to create the David Rockefeller Global Development Fund, which will complement the foundation's work in the areas of sustainable development, poverty eradication and international trade and finance. The new bequest brings Mr. Rockefeller's total charitable donations to about $900 million. STEPHANIE STROM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (92%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); TRENDS (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (83%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Philanthropy; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Rockefeller Brothers Fund

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (92%) David Rockefeller; Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



495 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Intrepid Has Not Moved, but the Bill Has Risen to $60 Million 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As a Navy salvage team works to free the World War II aircraft carrier Intrepid from a mound of mud in the Hudson River, the cost of fixing up the floating museum and its dock is rising to more than $60 million.
 And even though the museum is privately run, virtually every dollar for the overhaul will come from taxpayers. Before the Intrepid's operators sent an S.O.S. call to the Navy two weeks ago, the renovation project had already received pledges of $31 million from the federal government, $23 million from the city and $5 million from the state. Now the Navy is joining in to spend about $3 million to dig the ship out.
This level of government largess for a private museum, though not unprecedented, is rare. But the Intrepid offers elected officials in New York something other museums do not: an opportunity to show their support for the military regardless of their positions on the war in Iraq. Some have been sympathetic to the Intrepid's plight because the foundation that runs the museum has also provided aid to wounded veterans and their families. 
 ''The local officials are not for Iraq, but they were for World War II,'' said Henry J. Stern, a former city parks commissioner who serves on the board of the Hudson River Park Trust, which controls the Intrepid's pier. ''This is a way of showing their commitment for America's troops in a manner which is politically correct. It's almost as if they want a throwback to the good wars, the wars when the country was united.'' 
 Christine C. Quinn, the speaker of the City Council, acknowledged as much. Ms. Quinn, who opposes the war in Iraq, has been one of the Intrepid's staunchest backers. ''Supporting the Intrepid is a way of supporting the men and women in the military,'' she said. ''It's even more important for those of us who stood in opposition to be supporters of our troops.'' 
 New York's two senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both Democrats who have criticized President Bush's strategy in Iraq, have also eagerly embraced the Intrepid's cause. 
 The estimated cost of the entire project had topped $58 million before Nov. 6, the day a team of tugboats tried and failed to pull the ship from its berth and tow it to a dry dock in Bayonne, N.J. The Navy's digging operation is an additional expense, which Bill White, president of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, said he had promised to try to repay. 
 To help with the bill, Ms. Quinn, whose 80-year-old father, Lawrence P. Quinn, served in the Navy during World War II, spurred the Council to pledge about $8.5 million for the ship's overhaul; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office matched the Council's contribution. (The Intrepid's operators also plan to use about $5.7 million in previous financing from City Hall.) In addition, Gov. George E. Pataki pledged $5 million in early July. 
 Ms. Quinn has also promised $350,000 in Council funds this year to help pay for the Intrepid's educational programs in schools while the museum is closed for the next 18 months. 
 More than half of the public money that has been raised -- as much as $35 million -- will go toward rebuilding Pier 86, for which the Intrepid pays just $1 a year in rent to the Hudson River Park Trust, Mr. White said. The rest of the cost will be for moving, repairing and refurbishing the ship. 
 None of the money will come from donations by corporations or wealthy individuals, sources that private museums usually tap for construction projects.
 City officials said it was unusual for a private museum to have public sources cover the entire cost of a big capital project. More often, the city pays for a portion, as it did in contributing $65 million toward an $858 million new home for the Museum of Modern Art that was completed in 2004, said Kate D. Levin, commissioner of the city's Department of Cultural Affairs.
 Ms. Levin said that there was no formula for deciding how much of a project should be publicly financed because some cultural institutions, most notably art museums, have an easier time raising private money than others do.
 ''We do look for private participation because that speaks to the overall health of the organization,'' Ms. Levin said. ''If you don't have other people that care about you, that's a bad sign.''
 But, Ms. Levin added, in deciding to contribute, city officials credited the Intrepid's management with having raised substantial private money to finance the museum's operations and also considered the urgent need to move the ship because of the failing condition of the pier. 
 Other officials were sympathetic to the Intrepid's needs because leaders of the Intrepid Foundation had raised tens of millions of dollars from donors in recent years to aid wounded veterans and the families of soldiers killed in Iraq. 
 When Mr. White went to City Hall to appeal for more money this year, he explained that ''we've been distracted by a very important mission to raise money that was needed immediately for these families,'' he recounted last week, adding, ''How many times can you go back to the well in a two-year period?'' 
 A sister charity, the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, has raised $35 million to build a rehabilitation center in Texas for soldiers wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. White, whose salary as president of the museum is $318,500, is also president of the Fallen Heroes Fund, which was founded by members of the Fisher family of New York. Arnold Fisher, the senior partner of the Fisher Brothers development firm, is the chairman of the museum foundation.
 Mr. White also said he emphasized to city officials that the Intrepid draws tourists to New York City, and that the 750,000 people a year who visit the ship have a significant impact on the local economy. ''We feel that it is a permanent fixture in New York,'' Mr. White said. 
 Ms. Quinn, for one, was persuaded, especially, she said, after a Memorial Day meeting aboard the Intrepid with a young soldier who had lost a leg in combat.
 ''The Intrepid is certainly a big economic driver in the city and the borough,'' she said. ''It's one of the few cultural institutions that is dedicated to the history of our military.''
 She added that about 100,000 students visit the Intrepid each year, providing ''a great opportunity to teach kids about the history of our country, about the Constitution, about the Bill of Rights.''
 Before it closed on Oct. 1 for the overhaul, the museum employed six full-time teachers who conducted workshops for visiting students, said Fredda Plesser, executive director of the museum's Michael Tyler Fisher Center for Education. 
 Some of those teachers were laid off, but with the help of grants from the city, others will continue to conduct the workshops in public schools, Ms. Plesser said. She said the museum also expected to receive $175,000 in grants from the city to run after-school programs for children.
 Mr. Stern said elected officials were supportive of the Intrepid because its financial needs were great and pressing, and because its operators had nowhere else to turn.
 ''The sums are really so large here that I don't see private people giving that much to this kind of museum,'' Mr. Stern said. ''It's just popular education and awareness of something that's very important and patriotic.''
 Still, he added, the final cost to the taxpayers is a long way from being tallied. ''If they say $60 million now,'' he said, ''who knows how much it will end up as?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A diver retained by the Navy jumped from a barge last Tuesday to study the hull of the U.S.S. Intrepid, which remains stuck in Hudson River mud. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NAVIES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MAYORS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (65%) Finances; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%) Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum (NYC); Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum (NYC)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Christine C (Council Speaker) Quinn; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Patrick Mcgeehan; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) New York City; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



496 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK COURT CUTS AID SOUGHT FOR CITY SCHOOLS

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Diane Cardwell and Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York State's highest court ended a landmark legal fight over education financing yesterday, ruling that at least $1.93 billion more must be spent each year on New York City's public schools -- far less than the $4.7 billion that a lower court called the minimum needed to give city children the chance for a sound basic education. 
 In its 4-2 ruling, the Court of Appeals noted that in 2004 a commission appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki contemplated a range of spending options for the state to fulfill its constitutional obligation to the city's nearly 1.1 million schoolchildren, with $1.93 billion at the low end of the scale. The court endorsed the $1.93 billion as ''reasonable.''
The amount is to be updated for inflation and other factors, which will bring the total to more than $2 billion a year. 
 The judges said that lower courts had erred by proposing their own sums, treading on the turf of the governor and the Legislature. ''In fashioning specific remedies for constitutional violations, we must avoid intrusion on the primary domain of another branch of government,'' Judge Eugene F. Pigott Jr. wrote for the majority. 
 The New York case, brought by a coalition of education groups called the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, has been among the most closely watched of dozens of lawsuits over school financing filed across the country that seek to direct more money to needy school districts. The ruling cannot be appealed to the United States Supreme Court because it is based on the State Constitution.
 The financing issue has divided Albany for years, and the ruling set the contours for Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer's first round of budget negotiations early next year.
 But for all of the predictions over 13 years of litigation that the suit would reshape education financing in the state, the ruling did not do so. The court did not touch New York's arcane formulas for education financing and refused to impose new oversight mechanisms.
 The decision came as an immense blow to New York City, which, based on prior court rulings, had anticipated up to $5.63 billion a year in additional education aid. 
 New York State now pays about $7.1 billion, or roughly 45 percent, of the city's total education budget of $15.4 billion, the largest local school budget in the country. The court-ordered increase would come on top of this, but the ruling left open the possibility that the state would press the city to contribute to the added financing. 
 The decision yesterday also vacated lower courts' rulings mandating more than $9 billion in capital aid for new schools, libraries and other amenities, saying that the state had met its obligation last spring by authorizing $11.1 billion in borrowing for the city's schools. 
 Even as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg issued a muted statement -- ''we now look forward to receiving additional funds from the state'' -- the ruling was greeted with a measure of relief in Albany, especially among Republican lawmakers representing upstate and suburban districts. 
 Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat who as attorney general has represented the state in the lawsuit for the past eight years, repeatedly promised during his campaign to spend $8.5 billion more a year on needy school districts statewide, including at least $4 billion a year for New York City. 
 In a statement yesterday, he reiterated his pledge to provide more money than was ordered by the court, but he stopped short of specifying any number. ''We must provide more funding than this constitutional minimum so that all of New York's schoolchildren have an opportunity to thrive in the 21st-century workplace,'' Mr. Spitzer said. 
 If Mr. Spitzer can broker a deal, the city could have the extra money by the start of school next September.
 While the decision gave Mr. Spitzer more maneuvering room to manage the state's finances, it will also almost certainly embolden opponents of increased spending for the city schools. State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, immediately hailed the $1.93 billion as more than sufficient. 
 ''The lower courts were wrong,'' Mr. Bruno said on WROW, an Albany radio station. ''They were out of their jurisdiction. They were doing things that were inappropriate -- they were literally fooling the public by pretending that a lot of money was going to flow, billions and billions, and the higher courts said they were wrong, they were out of their jurisdiction.''
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican who has fought the lawsuit throughout his three terms in office, also cheered the ruling, calling it ''a resounding affirmation of my strong belief that decisions regarding the state's finances and education policy should continue to be made by the people's elected representatives and not the courts.'' 
 Mr. Pataki initially argued against any court-ordered increase in aid for the city schools. But after losing at trial and after the Court of Appeals upheld that verdict, he appointed a commission in September 2003 to determine how much the state would need to spend to comply with the court decisions finding that city students were shortchanged.
 In his budget proposal in 2004, Mr. Pataki suggested an additional $2 billion for the city schools, financed by the proceeds from video lottery terminals. Using financial analysis by Standard & Poor's, the commission proposed a statewide increase in education spending of $2.5 billion to $5.6 billion a year, with a minimum of $1.93 billion for New York City. It was those proposals that yesterday's court ruling cited. In May 2004, Mr. Pataki switched gears and proposed phasing in $4.7 billion a year in additional aid for the city's schools, but he could not get the Legislature to agree. 
 Yesterday's ruling heavily reflected the governor's influence on the Court of Appeals. All four judges voting in the majority were appointed by Mr. Pataki. Judge Pigott, who wrote the majority opinion, joined the court in October, the day that final arguments were heard in the school financing case. 
 Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye and Judge Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick, appointees of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, were in the minority, dissenting from most of the ruling. The court was actually more divided than the 4-2 vote suggested, with judges expressing three different opinions on the amount of money that ought to be spent on the city schools.
 ''Devising a state budget is a prerogative of the legislature and the executive,'' Judge Pigott wrote. ''The judiciary should not usurp this power.'' 
 Still, his opinion allowed that the $1.93 billion figure could be questioned because it had been based on a theory that New York City could be more cost-effective than other successful but high-spending districts. ''The premise, and the conclusion, are no doubt debatable,'' Judge Pigott wrote. ''But we cannot say they are irrational, and they are therefore entitled to deference from the courts.'' Judge Arthur M. Rosenblatt, who concurred with the majority and provided the swing vote, said he agreed that the court should show deference to the other branches of government. But he bluntly stated that he was not sure if $1.93 billion was the proper amount. 
 The seventh member of the court, Judge Victoria A. Graffeo, a Pataki appointee, did not participate. 
 Chief Judge Kaye, in a sharply worded dissent also signed by Judge Ciparick, disparaged the $1.93 billion amount, saying ''the majority does not resolve the inadequate funding of the New York City public schools.''
 Judge Kaye chided her colleagues for ignoring what emerged as near unanimity on the additional spending needed forthe city's schools, including Governor Pataki's own proposal in May 2004 of an increase of $4.7 billion annually for New York City. 
 ''A sound basic education will cost approximately $5 billion in additional annual expenditures,'' Judge Kaye wrote. ''I remain hopeful that, despite the court's ruling today, the policymakers will continue to strive to make the schools not merely adequate, but excellent, and to implement a statewide solution.'' 
 Lawsuits over education financing have been filed in 45 of the 50 states, according to the National Access Network, a group based at Teachers College at Columbia University that tracks the litigation. And the New York case, filed in 1993, has been among the most closely watched. 
 Even with the award cut by more than half, the $1.93 billion is the single largest judgment in any of the education financing lawsuits. Last year, for instance, the Kansas Supreme Court upheld lower court rulings that led to increases of more than $750 million in school spending. 
 The New York case has cast a shadow over state budget negotiations consistently since January 2001 when the original trial judge, Justice Leland DeGrasse of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, struck down the state's school financing system, saying it denied city children their right under the State Constitution to a sound basic education. 
 Since then, Mr. Pataki and the State Legislature have faced -- and flouted -- a series of court-ordered deadlines to make changes, even as they increased allocations to the city schools, and those in other districts, as a signal to the court that they were, in fact, paying attention. 
 The largely unexpected reduction in the court award left the plaintiffs struggling to put the best face on what was a deflating end to their long battle. 
 ''Finally, we have a decision that requires at least $2 billion in additional funding for the city schools,'' said Joseph F. Wayland, the chief lawyer for the plaintiffs. 
 Geri D. Palast, the executive director of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, said the group's hopes of providing a sound, basic education to city schoolchildren were now with Mr. Spitzer. ''The court established a minimum funding number that will not meet the mandate,'' she said.
 City Councilman Robert Jackson, who as a parent was a plaintiff in the lawsuit, lambasted the court. ''I am profoundly distressed and disappointed,'' he said. ''The children of New York City are crying in their hearts.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: "A 13-Year Court Battle Over School Financing." Court of Appeals Highest court in state JUNE 1995 Rules that a suit challenging the state's school financing system can proceed in lower courts on the basis that students are being denied the opportunity for a sound basic education guaranteed in the State Constitution. JUNE 26, 2003 Orders the State Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki to devise a plan to reform its school financing system by July 30, 2004. NOV. 20, 2006 Issues a final ruling saying the state owes the city at least $1.93 billion a year, a fraction of the $4.7 billion or more that was the basis of the previous ruling. Appellate Division JUNE 25, 2002 Overturns the trial court's ruling and says that the state is obliged to provide no more than a middle school-level education, and to prepare students for nothing more than the lowest-level jobs MARCH 23, 2006 Rules that city schools were being shortchanged by at least $4.7 billion annually in state aid. The court orders the State Legislature to consider a plan to direct $4.7 billion to $5.63 billion a year to city schools. State Supreme Court 1993 The Campaign for Fiscal Equity files a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of New York State's system of school financing. The lawsuit argues that the state's school aid formula discriminates against city students. JAN. 10, 2001 Rules that the state's method of financing public schools is illegal and deprives city school children of a sound basic education, and orders the State Legislature to come up with a new system. AUG. 3, 2004 After the state fails to meet the compliance deadline, Justice Leland DeGrasse appoints a panel of referees to scrutinize the financing system and submit new standards by Nov. 30. FEB. 14, 2005 Justice DeGrasse rules that an additional $5.6 billion must be spent on the city's public schools each year and another $9.2 billion must be spent over five years to improve facilities and relieve over crowding. (PG.-B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation; Education and Schools; Government Bonds; Constitutions; Election Issues; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Campaign for Fiscal Equity

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) David M Herszenhorn; George E (Gov) Pataki; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



497 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: India and China Become Friendlier Rivals

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
A 40-year border dispute remains unresolved. Tibetan refugees continue to pour across the Himalayas. The memory of India's bruising military defeat by China in 1962 remains fresh in the minds of a certain generation. 
 But as the president of China, Hu Jintao, arrived here Monday night to shore up relations between his nation and India, the territorial disputes were no longer the main focus of their relationship.
 As India and China tend to their flourishing economies and strive to expand their global reach, they increasingly find themselves scrambling for natural resources and political influence around the world. At times these two giants of Asia appear to be linking arms; at times they are in active competition. 
 But it is not exactly a relationship of equals. India lags behind on virtually every indicator, with the notable exceptions of the size of its software industry and the number of billionaires, in which it is far ahead. 
 On Monday, India's minister of state for commerce, Jairam Ramesh, told an audience here that Indians would do well to stop competing against the Chinese and start admiring them. ''We are not in a race,'' he said at a seminar sponsored by the Confederation of Indian Industry. ''They have already won the race.'' 
 Some of the competition is in each other's neighborhoods. China, a longtime ally of Pakistan, is helping that nation fulfill its nuclear energy ambitions and is building a deep-water port at Gwadar on the Arabian Sea. On India's eastern flank, China has emerged as one of the largest trading partners of Bangladesh. 
 India, meanwhile, signed a trade agreement with Singapore last year, and it is increasingly cozying up to the military junta in Myanmar, formerly Burma.
 Some of the competition is taking place oceans away as China and India, both hungering for raw materials ranging from fossil fuels to iron ore, aggressively court resource-rich countries like Nigeria and Kazakhstan. 
 ''As two large countries with their own oversized egos, with their sense of manifest destinies, the rivalry is natural,'' said C. Raja Mohan, the strategic affairs columnist for the English-language daily Indian Express. ''The self-perception in both China and India is that they have a larger stake in the world. Therefore there is a politics of balancing which has become more acute.'' 
 Never mind, many Indian analysts say, that the United States is seeking to shore up India as a bulwark against China. India has its own reasons to stand up to China -- or at times to collaborate. 
 For instance, India and China are partners in an oil venture in Sudan, despite international pressure over what the United States has described as the genocide in the Darfur region of western Sudan. Both India and China have in fact stepped up their courtship of Africa. 
 Trade between China and African nations, with their ample deposits of iron ore, copper and oil, has grown tenfold in the last 10 years, to nearly $40 billion last year. In most instances where both countries have bid for oil deals, China has managed to elbow out India. 
 But Indian automakers are making sport utility vehicles for the African market, selling hair care products and bidding for hotels. India's bilateral trade with African countries inched up to around $12 billion last year.
 Their respective economic rises have gradually prompted India and China to put away distrust and start doing business together. Trade between them has more than doubled in the last two years, reaching nearly $18 billion in 2005. A report by the Confederation of Indian Industry forecast that it would reach $30 billion by 2010. A historic trade route at Nathula Pass reopened earlier this year, for the first time since the two countries went to war in 1962 over territorial disputes. 
 Some of the suspicion has been hard to overcome, though. India claims a vast swath of Chinese-controlled territory in Kashmir. China contends that the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh is part of China. Talks between the two countries have yet to resolve those issues. 
 Pakistan is the other sore point. Mr. Hu, after the first visit by a Chinese president to India in 10 years, is scheduled to move on to Pakistan later in the week. Among the potential deals to be announced, there is the expansion of trade and further nuclear cooperation.
 For India, which is poised to acquire civilian nuclear technology from the United States, such overtures by Beijing are more than minor irritants and do not help to overcome its distrust of China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); POLITICS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); GENOCIDE (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (72%) Somini Sengupta; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HIMALAYAS (73%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (99%); SUDAN (93%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MYANMAR (92%); NIGERIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) India; China

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



498 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: China and India Emphasize Cooperation

BYLINE: By AMELIA GENTLEMAN

 BODY:
NEW DELH, Nov. 21 -- China and India declared today that there was room in Asia for the two emerging economic giants to coexist in a cooperative rather than competitive relationship.
 At the start of a visit that was heavier on symbolism than on substantive new agreements, President Hu Jintao of China and his Indian host, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, unveiled a 10-point plan that aims to double bilateral trade to $40 billion by 2010. They also pledged ''cooperation'' in the field of civilian nuclear energy -- potentially marking an end to decades of nuclear rivalry and suspicion.
 Despite the emphasis on collaboration, there was no sign of a significant breakthrough in any of the key areas of conflict, including border disputes, bilateral relations with Pakistan and the United States and tension over Tibet. Nor was there any progress on the creation of a free trade agreement. 
 ''President Hu and I are in agreement that the prospects are bright for the simultaneous development of India and China,'' Mr. Singh told journalists after the 90 minute meeting with his Chinese counterpart. ''There is enough space for the two countries to develop together in a mutually supportive manner, while remaining sensitive to each other's concerns and aspirations as befits good neighbors.''
 Mr. Hu echoed this sentiment, adding that during the four-day trip he hoped to ''strengthen our friendship, increase our mutual trust, expand our cooperation and chart a course for the future.''
 The fragile nature of relations between the two nations was exposed once again just days before the start of the state visit -- the first by a Chinese president to India in 10 years -- when China's ambassador to India reiterated Beijing's claim to the north-eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh. The Indian foreign minister, Pranab Mukherjee, responded that the state was an ''integral and inalienable part of India.''
 Noting these ever-present tensions, Indian politicians had stressed that progress could only be made during the summit by separating the thorny problems and focusing on the more productive areas of trade and economic cooperation.
 ''We can use economics and trade to make more avenues of cooperation, while continuing to negotiate on problems which will remain intractable for some time,'' Commerce Minister Jairam Ramesh said before talks began.
 This was the strategy adopted by the two leaders, who were at pains to highlight the fields in which they could usefully cooperate. In a joint statement, they declared: ''As two major countries in the emerging multi-polar global order, the simultaneous development of India and China will have a positive influence on the future international system.''
 They promised collaboration on anti-terrorism measures, declared they would foster greater cultural ties, promised to promote tourism between the two countries and added a catch-all pledge to ''Expand All-Round Mutually Beneficial Cooperation.''
 Both leaders stressed the desirability of speeding up talks aimed at resolving border disputes.
 Foreign policy experts in India found little of substance in the announcements. Brahma Chellaney, an analyst with the Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research, said: ''The fact that these documents were already ready before Mr. Hu arrived means that nothing of great significance was achieved during the talks. In terms of the issues that divide the two countries, either there was silence by both sides or just empty rhetoric.''
 But C. Raja Mohan, strategic affairs columnist for the Indian Express newspaper, saw a new direction. ''The message was: There is space for both of us in this world. We don't have to be rivals. They haven't said that before.''
 Although the pledge to cooperate on civilian nuclear energy reflected a new determination to cooperate in this field, there was nothing in the joint statement to suggest that China had decided to support the deal between India and the United States on New Delhi's nuclear program, or to back a proposal to change of rules at the Nuclear Suppliers Group to allow India access to the heavily-regulated market in nuclear fuel and technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); PRANAB MUKHERJEE (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST INDIA (79%); ARUNACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); INDIA (95%); ASIA (92%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



499 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Russian Group Offers $2.3 Billion for Oregon Steel Mills

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The Russian billionaire Roman A. Abramovich offered $2.3 billion Monday for an Oregon steel mill in what would be the largest Russian investment to date in the United States. 
 The Evraz Group, controlled by Mr. Abramovich and Russian partners, offered $63.25 a share in an all-cash bid for Oregon Steel Mills, a maker of railroad tracks and large-diameter pipes based in Portland, Ore. The board of Oregon Steel endorsed the deal Sunday. It was a 7 percent premium to the company's closing share price of $58.96 on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange.
If approved, the takeover would plant another Russian business flag abroad as Russian companies, flat on their backs a decade ago, make a strong comeback, helped by high commodity prices. 
 Also on Monday, Norilsk Nickel, owned by the billionaires Vladimir O. Potanin and Mikhail D. Prokhorov, offered $408 million in cash for the nickel-producing assets of the OM Group, based in Cleveland, Bloomberg News reported. 
 The Oregon offer is the latest evidence of a global trend toward consolidation in the steel industry. Steel makers in India, Brazil and Russia are buying plants in Europe and North America, shifting power in the industry away from first world companies and showing the clout of commodity-based economies. This spring, Arcelor of Luxembourg merged with Mittal Steel, owned by the Indian tycoon Lakshmi N. Mittal, after rejecting a rival offer from Severstal of Russia. 
 Oregon Steel makes pipes, railroad tracks, rebar and plate steel at plants in Portland, Ore.; Pueblo, Colo.; and Camrose, Alberta. It now buys 25 percent of its raw steel from Evraz. 
 Irina I. Kibina, a vice president for investor relations at Evraz, said in a telephone interview that Evraz had promised not to lay off employees at the North American plants. Oregon Steel employs around 1,700 people. ''We are very comfortable with how the company is managed,'' she said. 
 The offer is contingent on approval by a majority of shareholders in Oregon Steel, and it confronts them with a problem that Europe has faced for some time. Russian companies offer the promise of a supply of raw materials, but their ownership structures are often opaque and the Kremlin has a heavy hand in business decisions. In Europe, Russia's buying spree has ignited opposition similar to that engendered by Japanese foreign investment in the United States in the 1980s. 
 This week, Poland is blocking an effort by the European Union to sign a new partnership agreement with Russia, partly to protest Russian energy polices on the Continent. 
 Mr. Abramovich, 40, a one-time confidant of the Yeltsin family who is also governor of the Chukotka region, the area of Russia closest to Alaska, bought a stake of about 40 percent in the Evraz Group in June, through his investment vehicle, Millhouse.
 At the time of that purchase, metals analysts said the company under Mr. Abramovich would become the nucleus for consolidating Russia's fractured steel industry. If so, it would follow a trend for Russian businesses, from oil to aircraft manufacturing, to form huge monopolies.
 Mr. Abramovich has greater control than his stake would imply because of Evraz's complex ownership structure. The company's assets are in Russia but it is registered in Luxembourg, and 82.4 percent of it is owned by two layers of Cyprus-registered offshore holdings. Mr. Abramovich controls one of these Cyprus companies, Greenleaf. Through this network of offshore companies, he controls 50 percent of the majority shareholder in Evraz. 
 ''Abramovich did not come to Evraz as a minority shareholder,'' Kiril S. Chuiko, a metals analyst at UralSib, said in a telephone interview Monday. ''The next step will be consolidation inside Russia.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (95%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (74%); TRENDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DIVESTITURES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%) Steel and Iron; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Nickel

COMPANY: EVRAZHOLDING OOO (92%); OJSC MMC NORILSK NICKEL (90%); EVRAZ INC NA (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); OM GROUP INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (54%); OAO SEVERSTAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Oregon Steel Mills; Evraz Group; Norilsk Nickel; Om Group

TICKER: NNIA (FRA) (90%); MNOD (LSE) (90%); GMKN (RTS) (90%); OMG (NYSE) (56%); MTS (MCE) (54%); MT (PAR) (54%); MT (NYSE) (54%); MT (AMS) (54%); SVST (LSE) (54%); CHMF (RTS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (90%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (90%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); NAICS331492 SECONDARY SMELTING, REFINING & ALLOYING OF NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) (56%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (56%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (56%); SIC3399 PRIMARY METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (56%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (54%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%); SIC2514 METAL HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (54%)

PERSON: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (90%); LAKSHMI N MITTAL (58%) Roman A Abramovich

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) OREGON, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); POLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (78%); LUXEMBOURG (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



500 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Record Sale Price Provides an 'I Told You So' Moment for Owner of Equity Office REIT 

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
The rumors had been circulating for months that Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office landlord, might join the parade of publicly traded real estate companies that were being taken private or merging with other public companies. 
 But a number of skeptics believed that with nearly 600 buildings in its portfolio -- many of them prime buildings in desirable markets -- Equity Office was just too big to be taken over.
 On Sunday night, however, Equity Office accepted a $36 billion offer from the Blackstone Group, an aggressive private investment firm that has bought two other real estate investment trusts specializing in office buildings this year. 
 The Equity Office deal, which is subject to approval by shareholders, would be the costliest buyout in history, not only for a real estate investment trust but for any company. The price of $48.50 a share represented a premium of 8.5 percent over Friday's price. Shares of Equity Office rose $3.42, or nearly 8 percent, to $48.14 yesterday. ''This is a validation of the public real estate markets,'' said Equity Office's founder, Samuel Zell, the man once known as the Grave Digger for his propensity to buy distressed property. ''This suggests that REITs have become part of the overall capital markets. That's a very positive thing.''
 This year, 21 REITs have announced that they are being acquired either by other REITs or by private companies, said Keven S. Lindemann, the director of real estate for SNL Financial, a research company in Charlottesville, Va. Twelve of these deals have not yet been completed. More REITs are expected to go private as long as interest rates remain low and investors are flush with capital.
 While many real estate specialists were marveling at the size of the transaction, James S. Corl, the chief investment officer for real estate at Cohen & Steers, complained that Blackstone's price was too low. An investment fund that specializes in REIT stocks, Cohen & Steers is Equity Office's largest shareholder, with $1.4 billion worth of stock. 
 Based on rising office rents, the replacement value of the Equity Office portfolio and the price that real estate is commanding overseas, Mr. Corl said the company was worth more than $60 a share. He suggested that other suitors might emerge. ''I think this is far from over,'' he said.
 Dismissing Mr. Corl's contention that he was selling on the cheap, Mr. Zell noted that until just recently, analysts had been sour on Equity Office. ''When the stock was at $25 a share -- and was the most hated stock in the REIT index -- he didn't say those things,'' he said. 
 But Barry Vinocur, the editor of Realty Stock Review, said that several real estate professionals told him yesterday that the deal should have fetched a higher price.
 A contest is under way for another office REIT, Reckson Associates Realty. Last week, the investor Carl C. Icahn and a private company bid $4.6 billion for the REIT, topping a pending $4 billion offer from SL Green. The offer is contingent on the company's review of Reckson's books.
 In terms of overall returns -- stock price appreciation plus reinvested dividends -- Equity Office, with a 51 percent gain, has outperformed the office REIT sector so far this year, at 37 percent. But its long-term performance has lagged, according to SNL. The company had total returns of 109 percent during the last five years, compared with 150 percent for the office sector and 183 percent for all equity REITs.
 Mr. Lindemann said Blackstone's offer represented a ''substantial'' premium for Equity Office. ''Wall Street didn't think the stock was worth that much,'' he said.
 In fact, Mr. Zell has long complained that Wall Street ''savants'' had placed too low a value on Equity Office. The Blackstone offer represents ''a serious indictment of the analytical community,'' he said.
 A public company since 1997, Equity Office grew by buying other large portfolios in markets across the country. Mr. Zell, considered a pioneer, sought to appeal to corporate tenants by offering them one-stop shopping for all their office space. But analysts said this notion never caught on because office buildings, unlike shopping centers, do not easily lend themselves to branding. 
 In the last few years, Equity Office quit markets like Salt Lake City and Fort Worth, that it no longer viewed as promising and tried to strengthen its presence in stronger markets like New York and Washington. Recently, Equity Office bought the office portion of 1540 Broadway, formerly known as the Bertelsmann Building, in Midtown Manhattan for $525.1 million.
 Last year, the company bought 1095 Avenue of the Americas, a nondescript 41-story building, also in Midtown, for $505 million and said it would spend another $260 million to remodel it. Initially, the venture looked risky, but rents and real estate prices in Midtown have been rising at a dizzying pace while space is tightening. Metropolitan Life Insurance is expected to move nearly 1,300 employees into the building, where annual rents are $80 a square foot. 
 As further evidence of the hot Midtown market, Boston Properties, another real estate investment trust, said yesterday that it had agreed to sell 5 Times Square, an office building it developed in 2002, for $1.28 billion to the AVR Realty Company, a Yonkers company that also owns the Brill Building near Times Square.
 If Blackstone's deal goes through, the New York company, founded in 1985 by Peter G. Peterson and Stephen A. Schwarzman, would become one of the nation's largest real estate owners. But based on its practice with other REIT purchase, the company can be expected to sell large chunks of the Equity Office portfolio.
 And Mr. Zell himself is hardly making his exit from the real estate business. He remains the chairman of three other publicly traded real estate companies, Equity Office Residential, the nation's largest apartment REIT; Equity Lifestyle Properties, which owns mobile home parks; and Capital Trust, which specializes in real estate finance. 


(Source by SNL Financial)

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the Blackstone Group's proposed acquisition of Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office landlord, misstated the nickname by which Samuel Zell, the founder of Equity Office, was once known. It is the Grave Dancer, not the Grave Digger. The article also misstated the name of one of the companies of which Mr. Zell is chairman. It is Equity Residential Properties, not Equity Office Residential.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Equity Office Properties bought the office portion of 1540 Broadway, formerly known as the Bertelsmann Building, for $525.1 million. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)Chart: ''Profitable in the Short Run''The Blackstone Group announced a deal yesterday to acquire Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office-building real estate investment trust, or REIT. The trust's shares have outperformed both the office and overall REIT markets this year, but have underperformed on a longer scale.Equity Office PropertiesTOTAL RETURNS1 MONTH: 7.5%YEAR-TO-DATE: 51%3 YEARS: 89%5 YEARS: 109%Office REIT IndexTOTAL RETURNS1 MONTH: 1YEAR-TO-DATE: 373 YEARS: 985 YEARS: 150All Equity REIT IndexTOTAL RETURNS1 MONTH: 3YEAR-TO-DATE: 303 YEARS: 1015 YEARS: 183Total returns are through Nov. 17.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (72%); COHEN & STEERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Equity Office Properties; Blackstone Group; Boston Properties; AVR Realty

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (72%); CNS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (72%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%) Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006



501 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 317 words

PERSON: Curtis Cate

HEADLINE: Curtis Cate, 82, a Biographer and Historian 

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Curtis Cate, an American biographer who chronicled the lives of several well-known European writers, among them Nietzsche, George Sand and Andre Malraux, died in Paris on Thursday. He was 82 and had lived in Paris for most of his life. 
 The cause was melanoma, his brother, Benjamin, said.
Mr. Cate's most recent book, ''Friedrich Nietzsche,'' was published in the United States last year by the Overlook Press. Reviewing the biography in The New York Times Book Review, William T. Vollmann called it ''a warmly intelligent introduction to Nietzsche.'' He added, ''Between the lines I sense a sincere sadness and discomfort about what became of Nietzsche, whom the author so clearly reveres.''
 Curtis Wilson Cate was born in Paris on May 22, 1924, to transplanted American parents. From 1943 to 1946, he served in Europe with the United States Army.
 Mr. Cate earned a bachelor's degree in history from Harvard in 1947. This was followed by a master's degree in Russian from the Ecole des Langues Orientales in Paris and a master's degree in philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford.
 In 1954, Mr. Cate joined the staff of The Atlantic Monthly; he was the magazine's European editor from 1958 to 1966. His writing also appeared in The New Republic, The New York Times Book Review and elsewhere.
 Mr. Cate's wife, the former Helena Bajanova, died in 2002. His brother, of Los Angeles, is his only immediate survivor.
 Among Mr. Cate's other books are ''Antoine de Saint-Exupery'' (Putnam, 1970); ''George Sand'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1975); ''The Ides of August: The Berlin Wall Crisis, 1961'' (M. Evans, 1978); ''The War of the Two Emperors: The Duel Between Napoleon and Alexander'' (Random House, 1985); and ''Andre Malraux'' (Hutchinson, 1995).
 He also wrote ''My Road to Opera: The Recollections of Boris Goldovsky'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1979), an as-told-to autobiography of the opera impresario.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (88%); ARMIES (70%); SKIN CANCER (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



502 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Energy Leads Shares as Oil Prices Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks resumed their November advance yesterday after an increase in oil prices lifted Exxon Mobil, the world's biggest energy company, and shares of Google surpassed $500 for the first time.
 Deere, the maker of farm equipment, led industrial stocks higher after saying that fourth-quarter profit rose more than analysts forecast. Boeing, the maker of commercial aircraft, climbed after receiving a $5.5 billion order from Korean Air Lines.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has gained 10 out of the last 12 days as earnings reports exceeded estimates and declining consumer and wholesale prices heightened speculation that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates anytime soon. 
 ''Everyone's really comfortable with the Fed on hold, and that's really the best scenario for stocks,'' said Alec Young, an equity strategist at Standard & Poor's in New York. ''There's barely any down days, because the picture looks good. Stocks will continue to outperform other asset classes.''
 The S.& P. 500 added 2.31 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,402.81. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 5.05 points, to 12,321.59. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.12 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,454.84.
 Google advanced on analysts' forecasts that the stock might gain another 20 percent. Google added $14.60, to $509.65. The advance, spurred by surging revenue, means the shares have jumped more than fivefold since their 2004 public offering at $85 a share. Analysts at Credit Suisse and Piper Jaffray predict the shares will top $600.
 Energy shares had the best performance among 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500, climbing 1.8 percent. Crude rose 2.3 percent, to $60.17 a barrel, the biggest increase since Oct. 25, after the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System limited the amount of oil it would carry and a North Sea platform was shut because of a gas leak.
 Exxon gained 96 cents, to $73.39. Schlumberger, the provider of oil field services, added $2.36, to $65.61.
 Deere jumped $5.86, to a record $95.27, after saying that profit last quarter rose 19 percent because of an unexpected climb in sales. Revenue of $5.12 billion surpassed the average analyst estimate of $4.79 billion in a Thomson Financial survey.
 Boeing rose $1.98, to a record $91.10. Korean Air ordered 25 planes, giving Boeing another victory over its rival, Airbus.
 NYSE Group surged $9.28, or 9.7 percent, to $104.60. The increase was its steepest since going public in March. Yesterday, the United States attorney's office in Manhattan dropped charges against five of six former NYSE specialists who were accused of defrauding customers.
 Health care equipment makers advanced after Medtronic, a maker of heart defibrillators, reported profit that beat analysts' estimates. Medtronic climbed $4.60, or 9.4 percent, to $53.55 for the biggest advance in the S.& P. 500. It reported quarterly earnings of 59 cents a share. Analysts had an average estimate of 56 cents, according to Thomson.
 Juniper Networks, a maker of equipment that directs Internet traffic, advanced 94 cents, to $21.42. Increased demand for the company's routers and network products will lead to profit growth of about 20 percent next year and 26 percent in 2008, according to J. P. Morgan.
 Semiconductor companies as a group had the steepest drop among two dozen industry indexes in the S.& P. 500, losing 1.9 percent. The chip maker Intel lost 70 cents, to $21.57. Broadcom, a maker of chips used in consumer products, declined 97 cents, to $36.03.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 100 13/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.57 percent from 4.60 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: -99.613
High Rate: - 5.160
Coupon Yield: - 5.252
Low Rate: - 5.130
Median Rate: - 5.145
Total applied for: -$64,389,224
Accepted: -$29,214,319
Noncompetitive: -$371,657

The four-week bills mature Dec. 21, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); BOEING CO (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (75%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (62%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); NYSE GROUP INC (51%); MEDTRONIC INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (75%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); PJC (NYSE) (54%); MDT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



503 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Piazza for a Maryland Suburb 

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE, Md. 

 BODY:
It was a deal that Deborah Simon, an owner of a crafts gallery, couldn't turn down. Five years after she left this city and relocated to another Washington suburb, officials here were offering her incentives to lure her home. 
 In the time since Ms. Simon left, the city has transformed itself with a $360 million downtown redevelopment project that includes a central plaza, new shops and luxury condominiums. It is now searching for small homegrown businesses like Ms. Simon's popular gallery, the Waygoose, to complement the new mix of national chain stores and restaurants that are moving in.
''No matter how big we get,'' Art Chambers, director of community planning and development services for the city, said recently, ''we'll need the presence of homegrown enterprises in order to retain our unique identity. This new development isn't about creating just another 'Anyplace U.S.A.' '' 
 Sections of the project, known as Rockville Town Square, are opening this winter and in the spring. All told, there will be 108,000 square feet of restaurants and shops on the street level, 644 condominiums in three stories above the shops, 2,000 parking spaces and a public square. The 100,000-square-foot Rockville Library, a four-story glass and steel structure built by Montgomery County on the new town square, opened in November. 
 The design of the 15-acre pedestrian-oriented town square project -- which has wide basket-weave brick sidewalks, large trees, islands of flowers, and colorfully painted residences overlooking a fountain and benches in the town square -- is modeled after Italian piazzas. 
 Five years ago, Rockville, which was in an economic downturn, notified local shopkeepers that it was going to raze part of its aging downtown, including a bankrupt 25-year-old retail mall and an adjacent strip mall where Ms. Simon had her gallery. In an attempt to reinvent itself, this suburb of Washington -- like other aging cities throughout the country -- had drawn up plans that combined retail, residential and office uses in one place. 
 The project is a joint venture of the city and county governments and two private developers. The Federal Realty Investment Trust, a real estate investment trust in Rockville that owns, manages, and develops retail projects, has invested $40 million in the new development here and is overseeing leasing of the stores and restaurants. The REIT, which has about 19 million square feet in metropolitan markets in the area, develops and manages more than 100 shopping centers, totaling 17.6 million square feet, in New York, Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey and California.
 RD Residential -- a partnership of Ross Development and Investment, a 30-year-old residential development firm in Bethesda, Md., that works primarily in the Washington area, and Danac Development, another Bethesda development company -- has invested $200 million in the project and is overseeing the construction and leasing of the condos. 
 The city has invested $90 million for infrastructure and parking, and the county has spent $30 million to build the library.
 The Rockville project is part of a larger construction boom in the Washington metro area, where more than 12 million square feet of new construction is under way, according to Colliers International, an affiliation of independently owned real estate service firms. 
 Rockville, a five-square-mile city with about 57,000 residents, according to census figures for 2005, is about 30 minutes from the center of Washington on the Washington Metro, the rapid transit system in the city and suburbs in Maryland and Virginia. 
 Rockville's proximity to Washington and the fact that the suburban city lacked a town center made it an ideal location for a mixed-use project, said Don Wood, chief executive and president of Federal Realty. The REIT has built a number of other mixed-use developments, including Bethesda Row in Bethesda, and it is planning to invest $50 million to build more than 200,000 square feet of retail and 17,000 square feet of office space in the Boston area. 
 Mr. Wood noted that the company ''has learned from its past mistakes and difficulties'' with mixed-use projects, which work best in high-density areas with relatively affluent populations. ''Everyone wants to do mixed-use these days, but it's not a magic elixir,'' he cautioned.
 Especially since the 1990s, mixed-use planning has attracted the attention of architects and planners -- among them, Jane Jacobs, the writer whose works include ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' that challenged traditional methods of urban planning, -- who argue that a combination of uses is necessary for a healthy urban area.
 But such developments can be risky to build. ''There are more things that can go wrong,'' Mr. Wood explained. ''There are more components in mixed-use, and all of them have to work for a project to succeed.''
 One of the most pressing concerns with the mixed-use project here is the sharp downturn that the residential real estate market has taken in recent months. ''We've gone from a red-hot market to an ice-cold market,'' said Scott Ross, president of Ross Development.
 The 644 condos -- studios, one-, two- and three-bedroom units -- are selling for $300,000 for the smallest units to $900,000 for the largest. They are being marketed by RD Residential to young married couples and single people working for government agencies and private consulting firms in the Washington area. 
 So far, the first residential building is sold out, and half of the units in second building are sold, which leaves 385 more condos for sale. ''Our game plan,'' Mr. Ross said, ''is to offer some of them for lease if the market continues to be slow.'' 
 As rentals, the units would lease for about $2.50 a square foot, or $2,500 a month for 1,000-square-feet. 
 In its retail sector, the development is active, with almost a dozen restaurants under contract, according to Wendy Seher, vice president for leasing at Federal Realty. The retail mix includes national chains like Starbucks and CVS; local chains like the Austin Grill, which has several outlets in the Washington metro area; and a handful of locally owned businesses.
 ''We always wanted to come back'' Ms. Simon at the Waygoose said. ''So when we got a call asking what the city and developer could do to bring us back, we jumped at the offer.'' The rent subsidies and relocation funds offered to Ms. Simon and her business partner Nan Rael, who will maintain their other store in Bethesda, is part of a $10 million package set aside five years ago to help merchants relocate when the malls were razed.
 Several stores -- a barbershop, a hair salon and a restaurant -- moved elsewhere in the city when the two malls were torn down, and they do not want to come back to the area that has been revitalized, Mr. Chambers said. A couple of businesses closed altogether. In all, 150 businesses were affected by Rockville's latest urban redevelopment effort. 
 In the early 1970s, its first urban renewal plan included the behemoth mall that was torn down 25 years after it was built. ''In the first case.'' Mr. Chambers said, ''we created a place that everyone had to drive to, and once they got there, they had to stay indoors.''
 ''Now we're using the experience of the last several thousand years,'' he said. ''We're not separating uses in our communities from one another. We're bringing them all together.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sections of Rockville Town Square, are opening this winter and in the spring. There will be 108,000 square feet of restaurants and shops on the street level. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (84%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles; Retail Stores and Trade; Housing; Condominiums; Restaurants

COMPANY: FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST (52%)

TICKER: FRT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Rockville (Md)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



504 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Where Being a Rebel Is the Key to Popularity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SANDERS

 BODY:
THE Review of French Wines, an august monthly journal, reported some shocking news recently. The top-selling white wine in Bordeaux, it said, was not from Bordeaux. Neither was it from some behemoth like the producers in Languedoc-Roussillon who pump out lakes of quaffers. 
 The darling of Bordeaux is, in fact, a lowly vin-de-pays chardonnay from Gascony. 
The producer, Chateau du Tariquet in the Cotes de Gascogne region, known for using ugni blanc and colombard grapes once thought fit only for distilling into Armagnac, is the largest family-owned vineyard in the country. 
 Chateau du Tariquet, where the Grassa family has been making wine since 1912, produced and sold nearly 8 million bottles of wine last year from its almost 2,500 acres of vines. Its sales have tripled since 1997, a period during which sales of French wine overall have fallen by 10 percent. It exported four million bottles of wine in 2004. More than a quarter of that came to North America, where Tariquet is sold under its own label as well as Domaine La Hitaire, Domaine de Pouy, and Domaine Lalande, for $8 to $16 a bottle.
 To get to this point, Yves Grassa, the family's 55-year-old patriarch, has broken almost every rule in the French winemaker's handbook, creating one of the most technologically advanced winemaking operations in the world and applying methods more familiar at the University of California, Davis, than in Bordeaux. 
 Mr. Grassa is a small barrel of a man in Levis, with an ample waist adorned by a belt buckle of Navajo silver and turquoise. As we sat in the fig-shaded back garden of his immaculately restored 17th century chateau, he explained that he had not set out to take on the world market and poke a finger in the eye of French tradition. 
 In the late 1970s, sales of Armagnac, then Tariquet's main product, went slack with the world economy. In a radical departure for that era, Mr. Grassa thought, why not make the grapes into a better wine and open up a new market? But he faced a major obstacle.
 ''Gascon white wines had no reputation,'' he said. They were sold in bulk, mostly from a spout behind the bar at cafes. 
 The ugni blanc and colombard grapes that constituted much of his vineyards yielded high-acid, low-alcohol wine perfect for distilling but not much else. 
 With little money but all the enthusiasm of youth, Mr. Grassa looked west. He went to vineyards in California, Australia and South Africa in the early '80s to study winemaking.
 ''I didn't start with any prejudices,'' he said. ''France is not my only culture, and I think sometimes tradition can become nothing more than a habit.'' 
 Sitting on a tongue of sandy subsoil perfect for white varietals, with hot days, cool nights and frequent morning fog, his vines yield ripe grapes whose thick skins are packed with freshness and fruit balanced by the acidity of their juice. 
 In traditional Gascon winemaking, Mr. Grassa said, ''that freshness, that lightness and elegance was lost'' because grapes and juice were exposed to air and oxidized and fermentation was allowed to create too much heat.
 At Tariquet, grapes travel from field to tank in refrigerated wagons and under a layer of inert gas. In the tank, the juice and skins are kept at cool temperatures for hours and then fermented slowly. 
 The results are delightful, said Ariane Daguin, an owner of the specialty food company D'Artagnan and daughter of the renowned Gascon chef Andre Daguin.
 ''He's a genius, that guy, and he did things in Gascony that revolutionized the wine industry there,'' Ms. Daguin said. When he first produced his ugni blanc/colombard blend, she said, ''I saw overnight, French people falling in love with this wine.'' 
 Robert Kacher, Mr. Grassa's principal American importer, is, naturally, also quite impressed. In the entire appellation of Chateauneuf-du-Pape, Mr. Kacher said, ''they're making probably 75,000 cases of white wine at $30 a bottle. The Grassa family produces 10 times as much at a third the price, an exceptional white wine for our palate.''
 None of this should be a surprise from a company whose motto is, ''Let's teach our children to disobey their parents.'' 
 ''I shouldn't tell you this,'' said Tariquet's jovial marketing director, Benoit Vettorel, ''but Yves doesn't actually like wine that much. He prefers fruit juices, which is why you'll find a touch of sweetness in all of our wines. The whites are all made to emphasize the fruit.''
 Anathema! 
 ''Terroir doesn't interest us all that much,'' he continued, ''Or at least less.'' 
 Heresy! 
 ''What the winemaker does,'' he finished, ''that's the most important.'' 
 Outrageous!
 If these are unorthodox ideas for a French winemaker today, 20 years ago they were revolutionary -- and threatening. The French wine press reviled Mr. Grassa as ''the best Australian winemaker in France.'' 
 Some of the rancor may have come from envy. Each year from 1982 to 1986, Tariquet won first place in blind tastings at the Montpelier Competition for nonappellation wines. At the prestigious International Wine and Spirits Challenge in London, the wine was named the best white of 1987 and Mr. Grassa was crowned ''Winemaker of the Year.'' 
 ''From 1987 to 1997,'' Mr. Vettorel said, ''we never had enough wine.'' 
 So Mr. Grassa acquired thousands of acres of nearby vineyards, mostly for replanting chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, semillon and chenin blanc. 
 Today, he has ceded the day-to-day running of his vineyards to his two sons, Armin and Remy.
 Mr. Grassa has taken on another challenge, 25,000 acres of land in Romania where, he said, there is potential ''for some very good vineyards.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A NEW WAY -- ''Sometimes tradition can become nothing more than a habit,'' Yves Grassa said. (Photo by Cristian Movila for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MEN (75%); FAMILY (75%) Alcoholic Beverages; Biographical Information; Wines

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) Chateau de Tariquet (France)

PERSON: Michael S Sanders; Yves Grassa

GEOGRAPHIC: LANGUEDOC-ROUSSILLON, FRANCE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



505 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Workers Expose a Memory Of a Bygone Times Square

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The veneer of modern New York peeled away this week from a building at Eighth Avenue and 43rd Street to reveal a tasty slice of the 1940s.
 Dixon Cafeteria. 
More precisely: ''Dixon Cafe er .'' Some letters are missing -- Dixon's itself is long gone -- but the exuberant red sign, with an X like outstretched arms and legs, has re-emerged to recall a Times Square that exists now only as simulacrum; of Horn & Hardarts and chow mein palaces; of Benny Goodman, the King of Swing, at the Paramount Theater and ''Oklahoma!'' at the St. James; of neon, neon and more neon. 
 ''It was a little elegant, in that Toffenetti kind of way,'' said Lorraine B. Diehl, summoning another streamlined restaurant nearby. Ms. Diehl, co-author of ''The Automat'' (2002), grew up in Hell's Kitchen and spent time as a girl with her grandmother, Elizabeth Carroll, who lived at 317 West 42nd Street.
 ''She never cooked, so whenever I visited her, we'd go across the street to the Automat, downstairs to Kiley's Bar and Grill or around the corner to Dixon's,'' Ms. Diehl said. ''I remember thinking that Dixon's was more 'dressed up' than the others because there were these large bouquets of artificial flowers in the window. I can't say I remember the food, only the very cheerful atmosphere.''
 Dixon's opened in 1946. It was known in the 1960s for homemade bread and yogurt. On a postcard showing its snazzy red-and-yellow food bar, it invited patrons to ''enjoy a leisurely meal and the finest liquors'' and promised to offer fare ''as economically as quality permits.''
 The last tenant in its space was a blue jeans store, and its sign obscured Dixon's until three days ago, when it was removed. Now, workers are turning it into the Eighth Avenue Pavilion, a mini-mall of vendors.
 The new sign is being made by Sign Media International of Woodside, Queens. On Sunday, workers salvaged the neon tubing from the D and the O and took the letters back to the shop. There, when connected to a transformer, the neon lit up anew.
 ''I got goosebumps,'' said Mustafa Arshad, the president of the sign company. ''I said to my workers: 'Look at this. This is a piece of history you're touching.' ''
 Hot pink history. In neon.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eighth Avenue slipped 60 years into the past this week, as a sign was revealed that once identified the Dixon Cafeteria, which opened in 1946. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
 Mustafa Arshad, the president of Sign Media International of Woodside, Queens, with the neon tubing from the O and D of the Dixon sign. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Restaurants; Signs

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Dixon Cafeteria (Defunct NYC Restaurant)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



506 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Battling Cancer, but Staying on Path to Citizenship

BYLINE: By ROJA HEYDARPOUR

 BODY:
Yong Ning Dai, 74, recently took up baking, making a vanilla sponge cake with bananas, fresh whipped cream and just the right amount of sweetness. He did not hone his baking skills during the hours of free time that often fill the days of the elderly, but while doing odd jobs at bakeries around Flushing, Queens.
 Mr. Dai began working as a young boy in Shanghai, and after years of labor in a textile factory and study at a night school, he became a textile engineer. 
In 2000, at the age of 68, he retired from his position at the factory and moved to the United States at his daughter's request. He and his wife believed that it was their duty to help raise their grandchildren. 
 Mr. Dai, however, said he felt out of place at his daughter and son-in-law's home in Maryland.
 ''He felt they belittled him,'' said Jane Qiu, Mr. Dai's social worker and translator. Mr. Dai had a falling out with his daughter and in 2002 decided to move to Queens, with just $400 in his pocket, while his wife stayed behind in Maryland. 
 ''At first, he thought, in Flushing there's no language barrier, but the reality was not like that,'' Ms. Qiu said, translating for Mr. Dai. 
 Although language was less of a problem in Flushing, where there is a large Mandarin-speaking population, Mr. Dai's age proved to be an unexpected obstacle. Employers told him he was too old to work.
 Just as he was feeling weary and hopeless, he saw a sign that offered work passing out restaurant menus. One day, he dropped some menus off at the Self-Help Prince Street Senior Center, an affiliate of UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, and asked if anyone could help him.
 ''That afternoon, I still remember, he cried and talked about his misfortunes,'' Ms. Qiu said. ''I calmed him down.''
 Ms. Qiu found him a part-time job at a housing center for the mentally ill, where he worked five days a week for four hours a day. He found a weekend job at a local bakery, where he would work up to 10 hours a day. Mr. Dai soon had clambered his way toward full-time employment and was making $700 a week.
 Then, he found out he had prostate cancer. 
 He tried to hide his disease from his boss at the center for fear of losing his job. However, in September 2005, nine months after the initial diagnosis, his boss learned about his illness. Despite Mr. Dai's insistence that he could continue to work, his boss told him he should spend time recovering and helped him apply for public assistance.
 Unemployed and sick, Mr. Dai remembered that when he first moved to Queens in 2002, Ms. Qiu suggested that he become a United States citizen. He went to class, but because of his poor vision, he could not see the blackboard. He jotted down the lesson, sentence by sentence. Then, at night, in his small, fluorescent-lighted room, he sat on his cot and reviewed his notes with the magnifying glass that he had around his neck.
 He studied four hours a night, he said, and when his vision became so bad that he could not go to class, he asked a friend to take notes for him. Four days before his citizenship exam last year, Mr. Dai underwent cataract surgery. Despite all the obstacles, he passed.
 Mr. Dai is on the path toward reconciliation with his daughter, but he still refuses to live with her in Maryland. Xia Fei Zhou, 75, his wife, travels back and forth, now spending most of her time in New York with her sick husband. 
 The cramped room they share, barely big enough for the cot they sleep on, is in a house with eight other residents on the second floor alone. There is only one kitchen and one bathroom on their floor, and the elderly couple wait for their younger housemates to go to work before they get ready in the morning. 
 Housing is a major concern for the couple. Ms. Qiu has put aside $500 from the Neediest Cases Fund to provide the couple with a proper bed and linens, but they are waiting to find a space big enough to fit these amenities. They have applied to a nonprofit group for housing for the elderly and are on a 10-year waiting list. 
 ''But he doubts that he will live to that day,'' Ms. Qiu said.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
 Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,196,944.75
Recorded Friday: $45,330.98
Total: $2,242,275.73
Last year to date: $2,378,354.65


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yong Ning Dai, 74, left, lives in a cramped room of a house in Flushing, Queens, with his wife, Xia Fei Zhou, 75. They are on a 10-year waiting list for a better home. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (89%); CANCER (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (83%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (77%); TEXTILE MFG (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); RESTAURANTS (63%); CHARITIES (62%); MEN'S HEALTH (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York

PERSON: Roja Heydarpour; Yong Ning Dai

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



507 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM AUSTRALIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Where Politics and Personal Lives Seem Not to Intersect

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
American elections are always big news here, but the upheaval in the United States Congress -- as well as concerns about rising interest rates here and a prolonged drought -- were all eclipsed, at least briefly, by ''values'' issues. 
 First, an Australian senator announced that he and his wife had become parents through surrogacy, firing up critics and advocates of a practice that is banned in parts of the country. 
Then legislators entered into an emotional and well-covered discussion of therapeutic cloning.
 Like Americans, Australians are deep in a nationwide debate over a number of hot issues that have been raised by advances in medical science. Another legislative fight, over the abortion pill RU-486, ended early this year with legalization of the pill.
 But there is a major difference. While polls show that Australians are generally quite divided on ''values'' issues -- like abortion, which is legal, and same-sex marriage, which is not -- political debates on the topics do not degenerate into personal attacks, perhaps a reflection of the country's secular nature. 
 For the most part, religion is a private matter here, not a political one. And while it would be glib to say that Australians worship the sun, the surf and the laid-back life, it is not wrong to note that although Australians go to church -- predominately Catholic or Anglican -- candidates are generally not concerned with playing to religious groups. The evangelical right, though growing, is politically insignificant. 
 Those conditions may help explain why Australia's politicians have had some very candid debates on very emotional subjects. Earlier this year, during the legislative struggle over RU-486, a cabinet minister who opposed legalization mentioned that a girlfriend had once had an abortion; a few days later, a senator who supported legalization said she herself had had an abortion when she was 18. Neither suffered politically.
 The recent debate over surrogacy started with the news in early November that a Labor Party senator, Stephen M. Conroy, 43, and his wife, Paula Benson, a 38-year-old businesswoman who could not conceive after having ovarian cancer, had become parents through an elaborate procedure. The egg was donated by one woman, fertilized in vitro by the senator, then implanted in another woman who carried the child to birth.
 Surrogacy is banned in the senator's home state of Victoria, so the couple and the woman who bore the child came here, to New South Wales, for the birth. 
 That ban in Victoria was put in place 20 years ago when the Roman Catholic Church was still powerful there, according to Dr. Peter Illingworth, medical director of IVF Australia, one of the largest fertility clinics in the country. 
 But there is also a federal ban on ''commercial'' surrogacy -- in which a woman is paid to carry the child -- that Dr. Illingworth said was less about religious beliefs and more about what he said were basic Australian values. 
 ''This is a quite secular country, but there are certain core principles,'' he said in an interview. ''One of these is that for rich people to pay poor people to take health risks on their behalf is not a good thing.'' 
 In the senator's case, both women were friends of the couple and charged nothing.
 One day after the Conroy-Benson story was front page news, the big story was the debate in Parliament about legislation that would allow therapeutic cloning, which some say is critical to helping scientists find potential cures for diseases. 
 The technique involves taking the nucleus from a mature cell, like a skin cell, and transplanting it into an egg. The resulting embryo would be destroyed at an early stage to obtain stem cells. 
 In 2002, Parliament banned all cloning but called for a review after three years. Last year a government-appointed committee recommended that the ban on therapeutic cloning be lifted.
 Prime Minister John Howard, leader of the center-right Liberal Party, was opposed, and might have been able to block legislative action because party discipline is considerably stronger here than in the United States. But he allowed what is called a conscience vote on the issue, which means that representatives are free to break from the party line.
 Taking advantage of that opening, a Liberal Party senator, Kay Patterson, a former health minister and an advocate of stem-cell research, introduced legislation that would permit therapeutic cloning. 
 The debate was intense and emotional. Opponents warned that human embryos could be created using eggs from cadavers and that legalization could eventually lead to human cloning. 
 ''In my view, these proposals turn human dignity on its head,'' said Senator Julian McGauran, of the Liberal Party. Others argued that poor women would be offered irresistible money for their eggs.
 ''These arguments are deeply offensive to women -- indeed, they should be to men, too,'' Senator Jeannie Ferris, of the Liberal Party, told her colleagues during the debate. ''They suggest that a woman has no control over her body, is driven by money and greed, will willingly take medication to stimulate egg production, and in return for payment, will jeopardize her health and potentially her life.'' 
 The legislation passed, but only barely, 34 to 32. Twenty of the yes votes were by women; four women voted against it. 
 ''This is the second debate in a row that has taken the liberal, secular approach,'' Dr. Illingworth said about the cloning vote. In the debate in February over RU-486, support by women in Parliament was also critical. 
 The two votes demonstrate that ''women are prepared to flex their political muscle,'' The Australian wrote in an editorial.
 The stem cell legislation is to be debated by the House next month, and is expected to pass.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite opposition to the abortion pill, it was legalized this year. (Photo by Tim Wimborne/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SURROGATE MOTHERHOOD (89%); ABORTION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (84%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (84%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); CLONING (70%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (53%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Raymond Bonner; Stephen M (Sen) Conroy

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (93%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Australia; Australia; Victoria (Australia); New South Wales (Australia) 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



508 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Counting African Lives Lost in First Weeks

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
More than a million babies die across Africa every year in their first month of life, a tragedy neglected by donor countries and African governments and hidden from view because the deaths often occur in societies where mothers and their babies are secluded after birth and the children go unnamed for weeks, according to a report by dozens of medical and public health experts released today.
 ''Look at the reaction in the U.S. or the U.K. if even one baby dies, particularly if there is malpractice,'' said Dr. Joy Lawn, a lead author of the report, ''Opportunities for Africa's Newborns.'' ''Families get very upset and there's a big hoo-ha. In Africa, there's a taboo around mourning a baby.'' 
Major international efforts to reduce child mortality from measles, malaria and diarrhea have largely benefited older babies and young children who have survived the trials of being a newborn. The 60 scientists and doctors who collaborated on the report say they hope to bring a new focus to the care of infants in Africa during the first days and weeks of life.
 Countries where newborns have the highest risk of dying -- among them, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Mali and Nigeria -- also have the most easily preventable deaths, according to the report, which was financed by Save the Children, the United States Agency for International Development and the World Health Organization. Following are some of the most significant findings:
 Many of the more than 300,000 babies who die because they are not breathing at birth could have been saved if birth attendants knew a simple resuscitation technique that relies on a mask and plastic bag device that can be sold for as little as $10.
 Some 70,000 babies die of tetanus infections that could have been prevented if mothers had been given two 20-cent tetanus shots when they were pregnant.
 Many of the babies born prematurely who die could have survived if they had been kept warm and snug against their mother's chests, skin to skin, and wrapped in place with a cloth.
 This technique, called kangaroo mother care, uses the mother's body heat to care for a small premature baby suffering from low body temperature. It has been found as effective as incubator care, the report said. Lacking an understanding of their babies' need for warmth, poor mothers often give them cold baths.
 Dr. Lawn, a senior researcher and adviser to a project on newborns at Save the Children USA, said it was only in recent years that researchers have analyzed data collected in large-scale surveys, documenting the number and patterns of newborn deaths. ''There wasn't anybody interested to pull the data for newborns,'' she said.
 The new report breaks down newborn death rates by country and finds that some of the poorest ones have made impressive strides, a sign that even with minimal resources notable improvements can be made. Eritrea, Malawi, Tanzania and Ethiopia have significantly reduced the risk of newborn deaths in recent years.
 But there is a long way to go, the report says. Though a majority of newborn deaths occur in the first week of life, most health care providers across sub-Saharan Africa advise mothers to return with their babies for a checkup only after six weeks.
 ''This is a visit for survivors,'' the report said.
 This study of Africa, which has the highest rates of newborn deaths globally, builds on a Save the Children report released in May addressing the four million newborn deaths that occur annually around the world. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which finances Save the Children's work, years ago identified the gap in attention to newborn health.
 In the United States, 4.7 newborns die for every 1,000 born, compared with 66 per 1000 in Liberia, which has the highest rate in the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INFANT MORTALITY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MALARIA (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); MAMMALS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (82%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (82%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) World Health Organization; Save the Children (Orgn); Agency for International Development

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALI (92%); NIGERIA (90%); COTE D'IVOIRE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LIBERIA (73%) Africa; Liberia; Ivory Coast; Mali; Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



509 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Weighing In on Wages

 BODY:
Nearly every month for the past two and a half years, inflation has eaten up whatever wage gains most American workers have managed to eke out. In August, however, the cost of living started to moderate, thanks largely to falling energy prices. As a result, wages outpaced prices substantially in September. And in October, according to a government report last week, average hourly earnings were 2.8 percent higher than a year earlier, after adjusting for inflation -- the biggest annual increase since 1998. 
 A real increase is something to cheer for a broad swath of working Americans -- non-managers who make up 80 percent of the labor force and whose wages up until now have not reflected their impressive productivity over the past several years. But behind the headline numbers, the wage picture -- and what it says about the economy -- is still cloudy.
The gains of September and October were due to declining inflation, not faster wage growth. And with most economists predicting a slower economy through the middle of next year, it's unlikely that American workers will get a sustained pay boost any time soon. 
 In other words, Americans' purchasing power now depends almost entirely on the up and down of energy prices. That's not encouraging for anyone worried about America's dependency on the countries that produce most of the world's oil. It's also not likely to make for a confident consumer in an economy that has long depended on enthusiastic borrowing and shopping to fuel growth. And sure enough, retail sales have been disappointing even as gas prices have declined. An economic analysis released this week by Merrill Lynch shows that fatter paychecks in September fed into just three spending categories: music, clothing and eating out, rather than big-ticket categories like cars or appliances. In October, consumers backed off even more, with most all of the ''extra'' pay going into groceries and pharmacy items.
 The coming holiday shopping season will be the true test of consumer resiliency. But the modesty of recent purchases -- in the face of the best real wage growth in eight years -- does not bode well. 
 There are early signs that Americans, untypically, may choose to pay down debt in the weeks and months ahead, rather than spend their money. The savings rate, though still negative, has improved of late, while bank lending to households has flattened. 
 Debt reduction would help families clean up their balance sheets, but it risks slowing the economy even further as spending winds down. That may be an inescapable bind. Working Americans, who have yet to participate fully in the Bush-era economic expansion, may not be ready or able to rev up the economy out of its current slow pace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FAMILY (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); RETAIL SALES (64%) Labor; Editorials; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Labor

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



510 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Filling Pantries Without A Middleman

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
A few years back, the online grocery business was just about the perfect symbol of the dot-com bust. 
 A company called Webvan had gone public in 1999, promising to reinvent the $500 billion supermarket industry -- retail's largest sector -- by quickly opening high-tech warehouses across the country. With Louis Borders, the bookstore mogul, as its founder and George Shaheen, the former chief executive of Andersen Consulting, as its day-to-day boss, Webvan looked like the real thing.
But it didn't do a very good job of attracting real customers and after blowing through $1.2 billion in only two years, it was forced to close its doors. 
 Five years later, though, the idea behind Webvan is finally starting to look good. Since its demise, smaller players have been slowly and quietly building online groceries into a legitimate business. The most intriguing of the group is a little New York company called FreshDirect that may well be offering us a glimpse of the next wave of Internet commerce. 
 It has already become something of a cult in New York, thanks to produce, fish and meats that put most supermarkets to shame, usually at lower prices. A handful of new apartment buildings have installed refrigerators in their lobbies, built to FreshDirect specifications, to lure residents who want their groceries delivered during the day. Real estate agents selling home buyers on up-and-coming neighborhoods like Inwood have taken to emphasizing that FreshDirect delivers there. When a friend of mine saw a delivery man walking on her Brooklyn street, she chased him down to confirm that, indeed, the company had begun delivering to her part of Park Slope.
 Today, which is FreshDirect's busiest day of the year, it will deliver many of the 2,000 fully cooked Thanksgiving dinners and 6,000 uncooked turkeys that it has sold in recent weeks. Operating out of a single warehouse in Queens, the company brings in about $240 million a year, up from nothing in 2001. Its executives talk as if they're planning someday to expand to other cities, where they would compete with services like Peapod run by existing supermarkets. In all, online groceries are still only a $2 billion business, but they are growing quickly. 
 FreshDirect got its start seven years ago, during the same Internet mania that created Webvan. Jason Ackerman, then 32, was working at a food-focused investment fund that managed some of the money that his uncle, Peter Ackerman, had made as Michael R. Milken's right-hand man in the 1980s. Looking for new business ideas, the younger Mr. Ackerman traveled up to Harlem to talk to Joe Fedele, who ran a store called Fairway, which was then -- and is now -- the best supermarket in New York. 
 ''This was 1999,'' Mr. Ackerman recalled, ''and everybody was asking, 'What can the Internet do for me?' '' For them, the Internet offered a chance to avoid one of the thorniest problems in the food business: the stores themselves. In a store, vegetables, cheese, meat and seafood have to be cut into portions, dropped into a crowded case and displayed under bright lights long before they will be eaten. None of that makes them taste better. 
 So Mr. Ackerman and Mr. Fedele, who had left Fairway, cut out the store. They spent $80 million, much of it Peter Ackerman's, and on July 11, 2002 -- 7/11 for good luck -- FreshDirect made its first delivery. (Mr. Ackerman and Mr. Fedele had a falling-out in 2004, and only the one whose uncle owns a big chunk of the company is still there.)
 FreshDirect has taken an approach that is nearly the opposite of Webvan's. It is trying to get one market right before entering any others. Over the last four years, it has been figuring out what New Yorkers want, where delivery vans get caught in traffic and how to put together a shrimp cocktail platter that can survive being dropped. ''If we get to Chicago in 3 years or 10 years,'' Mr. Ackerman says, ''we want to be the best when we get there.'' 
 Still, groceries are a tough business. Even without the frustrations of delivery, supermarkets have notoriously thin profit margins. And even though New York, with its affluent, overworked population, may be the country's best market for online groceries, FreshDirect isn't yet turning a profit. Its executives insist that it will once the warehouse is operating at closer to full capacity. (I know. We've heard that one before.) 
 To get there, the company is doing two main things. First, and in many ways less interestingly, it is nudging its customers toward food that is at least partly prepared and thus brings higher margins. Its sells a really nice Cajun fish rub, for instance, that costs only 50 cents but is largely profit. It also sells microwavable dinners, which aren't great but are a lot better than most frozen meals. Richard Braddock, the former Citicorp and Priceline executive who is now FreshDirect's chairman, said he thought the company could eventually have operating margins of about 10 percent, compared with 3 or 4 percent at a typical supermarket chain.
 Along these lines, FreshDirect stocks less than a complete selection of certain staples, like cereal, giving customers a reason to shop elsewhere for them. When the tennis partner of the company's chief executive, Dean Furbush, sheepishly confided that he shopped at both FreshDirect and Costco, Mr. Furbush replied that he loved hearing that.
 The company's second big strategy is the one that could be a window onto the Internet's future. FreshDirect's executives will try hard to convince you that their business isn't really about convenience. Besides selling good food, the business is about helping people shop in ways they never could in an actual store. It's about the Web as an information sorter.
 When you're looking at, say, crackers, you can sort them by price, by the amount of saturated fat per serving or by any number of other things. In recent months, the company has also loaded hundreds of recipes from some wonderful cookbooks onto its site. You can now click on one of the recipes and quickly order all the ingredients. 
 In the future, FreshDirect executives talk about going further. If your daughter were allergic to nuts, you would be able to tell the Web site not to sell you anything that contains nuts. For anyone with diabetes or heart disease, who keeps kosher or vegetarian, the advantages would be huge. All that time spent reading labels could be reclaimed.
 Mr. Braddock puts it this way: Phase 1 of the Internet revolved around providing information. Phase 2 revolved around basic transactions. In Phase 3, what Mr. Braddock calls ''the golden age of marketing,'' smart companies are starting to use the information about customers to sell products in fundamentally new ways. And who's got more information about your shopping habits than your grocer? 
 So the guys at Webvan were really onto something. They just didn't run the company well enough to make it to the golden age.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Margaret Dyette prepares food at FreshDirect in Queens. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Rosa Leon preparing pies at a FreshDirect kitchen in Queens. The company says it is trying to get one market right before entering any others. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); THANKSGIVING (62%) Food; Supermarkets; Company and Organization Profiles; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (92%); ACCENTURE PLC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Freshdirect (Co)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Jason Ackerman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



511 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: A $500 Milestone for Google Believers

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
When Google's shares nearly doubled in the first few months after its initial public offering, Mark Mahaney decided it was time for his clients to take advantage of the fervor that had built up around the company. He advised them to sell Google shares and put the money into Yahoo. 
 ''I thought the stock was a little expensive,'' said Mr. Mahaney, an analyst then for American Technology Research and now for Citigroup. ''It turns out that was a terrible call.''
So by the beginning of 2005, Mr. Mahaney jumped on the Google bandwagon. And so have most of Wall Street's analysts, along with the portfolio managers who look after big pension and mutual funds. 
 Yesterday, Google's shares closed at $509.65, up $14.60, passing the $500 mark for the first time. (Mr. Mahaney, who made his sell recommendation at $137, is now among those predicting that Google shares will rise to $600 within a year.)
 Not bad for a company that was forced to reduce its initial offering price to $85 a little more than two years ago because of lackluster demand. It quickly confounded the skeptics, rising to $100 on the first day of trading, and reaching closing prices of $200, $300 and $400 all within the course of 2005.
 Google now has a market value of $156 billion, exceeding all but 13 American companies -- icons of commerce like Exxon Mobil, Johnson & Johnson and Wal-Mart. It is worth more than any media company and all the technology companies except Microsoft, whose software empire it increasingly threatens, and Cisco Systems. 
 Google's success has made its founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the 12th- and 13th-richest people in the United States, according to Forbes -- and, at 33, the youngest in the top 400. Their shareholdings are worth more than $15 billion each, on top of the more than $2 billion in cash that each has received for selling some shares.
 Yet Google's rise in value and corporate maturity is not just about accomplishment, but about potential. While most companies slow as they grow, Google so far appears to be accelerating. 
 Its rising stock price has helped it attract the best engineers, minting an untold number of Google millionaires. It has also allowed important acquisitions, most recently a $1.65 billion all-stock deal for the video-sharing site YouTube. And as Google builds a lucrative franchise in selling advertising all across the Web, it makes more money, invests more and keeps the cycle going. 
 Anthony Noto, an analyst with Goldman Sachs, calls this a ''flywheel.'' 
 ''They can reinvest at a faster rate; they can innovate at a faster rate; they can create value for advertisers and users at a faster rate,'' he said. 
 The company is spending money as if it doesn't expect this growth to stop. Since its offering, Google has quadrupled its staff, to more than 9,000 employees -- many with doctorates from the world's leading universities -- and it is hiring more than 100 people a week to fill three dozen or so offices in more than 20 countries; its headquarters are in Mountain View, Calif., in Silicon Valley. Last year, it received more than a million resumes.
 Google is pouring billions of dollars a year into research, computers and a global communications network -- as well as investments in solar energy, a new campus at a decommissioned naval air station, and an army of private chefs cooking free meals from organic produce and hormone-free meat.
 Not everything Google touches has turned to gold. Its homegrown video service, chat software and financial information section lag behind those of popular rivals. It has found itself a magnet for legal threats and, in some cases, lawsuits as it moves aggressively to make a growing body of content searchable online. And some have expressed concern about the volume of personal data it is accumulating about its users.
 Still, as Google starts to dabble in all sorts of markets, ranging from wireless Internet access to corporate software, it has become in many ways the center of gravity for the technology industries.
 ''It feels in many ways like competing with Microsoft in the '90s,'' said Jim Breyer, a venture capitalist with Accel Partners. ''In a number of investments, if we are not at the top of our game, we will lose share to Google. Or Google will buy someone who will compete effectively.'' 
 Hanging over all of this, of course, is the specter of the Internet boom and then the bust six years ago, and the paper wealth it created and destroyed. Some see traces of that era's outsize expectations, if not delusions, in Google's ascent.
 After all, a company called Amazon.com was once going to change the world. Its shares split three times in the late 1990s before reaching a high of $113 at the turn of the millennium -- only to fall to single digits within two years. (They have worked their way back above $40.)
 But there are big differences. Google's rise is not a result of a general rapture with technology stocks or even the search-engine category. Indeed, while Google's stock price has risen almost 50 percent since late March, the shares of its main competitor, Yahoo, have declined nearly 14 percent.
 Yet that does not settle the matter. Geoffrey A. Moore, a Silicon Valley marketing consultant and author of books on investing in technology stocks, argues that investors' fascination with Google will inevitably wear off and its shares will plummet like so many highfliers before it.
 ''Google has had a spectacular early run,'' he said. ''The notion that this is a different animal is never the right argument.'' He suggested that if Google's business hit an unexpected slowdown, the company could meet the same fate.
 ''People will say, How did we ever believe that stuff?'' he said. Instead of admiring Google's practice of allowing its engineers to spend 20 percent of their time on personal projects, investors will start complaining that the company would be ''only getting 80 percent productivity out of its work force.''
 For now, Mr. Moore is very much in the minority. Many of those analysts who do not think Google shares will rise further express confidence that the current value is justified.
 ''I do not think there is a bubble about to burst -- not even close,'' said Benjamin Schachter, an analyst with UBS Securities, who has rated the shares hold all year. He says the stock should trade at $500 a year from now. His concerns are that the growth of Internet searching and text ads will slow and the prospects for Google's expansion into video ads and other markets have not been proved. 
 But ''over the long term, Google continues to outmaneuver all of its competitors,'' he said. ''I think it is one of the most important companies on the planet.''
 And by some measures, Google's stock price is not as steep as some stocks were at the turn of the millennium. Google's market value today, at $156 billion, is marginally higher than the $150 billion Yahoo reached in January 2000. That year Yahoo earned a profit of only $71 million on sales of $1.1 billion; Google, in contrast, is expected to record a profit of $2.8 billion this year on gross revenue of $10 billion.
 As with any highflying stock, though, a few investors are actively betting on a reversal of fortune. Fred Hickey, who writes the High-Tech Strategist newsletter from his home in Nashua, N.H., says that Google's shares are sharply overvalued and will fall as investors notice that the company's rapid growth is slowing.
 He points out that its revenue increased 11 percent from the second quarter to the third quarter -- a brisk pace, to be sure, but a lot less than the 18 percent pace in the corresponding time a year earlier.
 ''Google showed the sharpest revenue slowdown I've seen,'' he said, ''and nobody has paid attention.'' He argued further that the company's expenses are ''out of control,'' and that if the economy headed into a recession, Google's revenue would falter and its profits plummet.
 ''Google will suffer the same fate that Yahoo did in 2000,'' he said. 
 Mr. Hickey has put his money where his mouth is: he sold Google shares short, a bet that the stock price will decline. But not much: the short position is just 50 shares.
 ''I just wanted to be able to say I was short Google when it blew up,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Wednesday with an article about Google's share price surpassing $500 misstated the performance of New River Pharmaceuticals, which was listed among the best-performing initial offers. Shares of New River increased 1,154 percent through Tuesday since its offering in August 2004, not 527 percent. In addition, two companies listed in the chart, New River and Atlas America, did not reflect the split-adjusted share prices. The split-adjusted price for New River was $4, not $8; and for Atlas America, it was $10.33 instead of $15.50.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Google stock passed the $500 mark, then added a little more after hours. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Google is hiring more than 100 people a week, among them Erica Baker and Raiford Storey, above, at company offices in Manhattan. Its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, right, are among the richest people in the United States, with fortunes estimated above $17 billion each. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)
(Photo by Matthew Staver/Bloomberg News)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Google Compared: Initial Public Offerings, Biggest Companies and Some Peers''Graph shows Google stock price since 2004.Initial price: Yesterday$85's close: $509.65Graph: ''Comparing I.P.O.'s'' shows stock performance since initial public offerings, plotted to match the number of days that Google has been trading.MICROSOFTGOOGLEYAHOOGraph: ''Best-performing I.P.O.'s since 2004''Company/Industry: 1. New River Pharmaceuticals/PharmaceuticalsI.P.O. PRICE: $8.00I.P.O. DATE: AUG. '04LAST PRICE: $50.14Change since I.P.O.: +527%Company/Industry: 2. Google/Internet servicesI.P.O. PRICE: $85.00I.P.O. DATE: AUG. '04LAST PRICE: $509.65Change since I.P.O.: +500%Company/Industry: 3. CB Richard Ellis/Real estateI.P.O. PRICE: $6.33I.P.O. DATE: JUNE '04LAST PRICE: 33.22Change since I.P.O.: +425%Company/Industry: 4. Crosstex Energy/Oil and gasI.P.O. PRICE: $19.50I.P.O. DATE: JAN. '04LAST PRICE: 96.34Change since I.P.O.: +394%Company/Industry: 5. Atlas America/Oil and gasI.P.O. PRICE: $15.50I.P.O. DATE: MAY '04LAST PRICE: 47.18Change since I.P.O.: +357%The biggest U.S. companiesChart: ''Versus some media companies''Time WarnerNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: $44.0NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: $6.2Walt DisneyNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 34.3NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 3.4NewsCorpNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 25.6NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 3.6ComcastNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 24.3NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 2.3ViacomNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 10.6NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 1.2GoogleNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 9.3NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 2.4Versus some technology companiesHewlett-PackardNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: $91.7NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: $6.2I.B.M.NET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 89.6NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 9.1MicrosoftNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 45.4NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 12.9MotorolaNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 41.9NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 4.2IntelNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 35.9NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 6.0GoogleNET SALES, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 9.3NET INCOME, IN BILLIONS, TRAILING 12 MONTHS: 2.4(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Thomson Financial)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (58%); LARRY PAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



512 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: White House Lowers Forecast for Growth 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
The White House on Tuesday lowered its forecast for economic growth this year and next, reflecting the drag from the housing slump. 
 The Bush administration is also predicting that the unemployment rate will turn out to be slightly lower than previously thought.
Under the administration's new forecast, gross domestic product will grow by 3.1 percent, as measured from the fourth quarter of last year to the fourth quarter of this year. That is down from a projection of 3.6 percent in early June.
 Still, the new forecast would represent decent growth, especially given the strain on overall economic activity from the housing slump.
 The housing market has been hit harder than the administration had expected, Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters. 
 Gross domestic product measures the value of all goods and services produced within the United States and is the best measure of the country's economic standing.
 The White House is now expecting the economy to grow by 2.9 percent in 2007 -- also lower than its previous forecast of 3.3 percent growth.
 The nation's unemployment rate, which averaged 5.1 percent last year, is expected to dip to 4.6 percent this year -- a slight improvement from the administration's previous forecast for an unemployment rate of 4.7 percent this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Unemployment; Housing; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%) Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (73%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edward P Lazera

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



513 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Dodd's Balancing Act to Get Tougher; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Economic Hot Seat Atop Bank Panel

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
As Senator Christopher J. Dodd prepares to take over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee while also considering a run for the presidency, lobbyists and lawmakers are all asking the same question. 
 ''Does he become a populist champion on issues that broadly affect the middle class'' asked Travis B. Plunkett, the legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, ''or does he shrink from controversial issues that offend huge donors?''
It is a question facing not only Mr. Dodd, but the Democratic Party more generally as it assumes control of Congress.
 In his case, Mr. Dodd has shown through a 25-year record in the Senate that he is adept at going both ways. He has, at various times, broken with big corporate interests in support of a principle. At other times, he has broken ranks with his more liberal party peers to advance causes associated with corporate patrons. 
 Mr. Dodd takes the gavel at a pivotal moment.
 As Enron and WorldCom fade from the news, some of his constituents are seeking to water down the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed in 2002 to strengthen the role of corporate gatekeepers in response to a wave of scandals.
 The accounting firms have been asking for limits on their legal liability. Large companies are battling against renewed attempts to give shareholders a greater say in corporate affairs and to ward off efforts to curtail high executive pay packages. Hedge funds are resisting calls for greater regulation and transparency.
 How Mr. Dodd balances the competing interests of corporations and financial institutions with those of investors will define his chairmanship. 
 In a recent interview, Mr. Dodd said that he had hoped to be seen as unpredictably independent and willing to listen to both corporate interests and consumers.
 Sounding as much like a presidential candidate as a new committee chairman, he said he planned to broaden the agenda of the committee. He proposes to look at issues of national security, including the way the administration reviews foreign investment in vital American companies, and prosperity, by examining everything from affordable housing to the loss of manufacturing jobs in the United States.
 He also laid down some early markers for the new legislative session. He said he was satisfied with Sarbanes-Oxley, which he played a significant role in drafting. He said he had not yet reached the same conclusions as the Bush administration and some Democrats that the law, combined with excessive litigation, had driven companies to issue stock in overseas markets instead of on Wall Street.
 ''I'm open to listening,'' he said. ''But if I get a sense that these new proposals are going to weaken transparency and stability and the competence in the system, then I'm going to be resistant.''
 A liberal Democrat on many social and foreign policy issues, Mr. Dodd, who is 62 and is the senior senator from Connecticut, has had a reputation for using his skills as a legislative deal maker to benefit many of America's most powerful corporate interests, who also happen to be from his home state. They include the insurers, accounting firms, hedge funds and military contractors that are responsible for making Connecticut the state with the highest per capita income in the nation. 
 The companies have returned the support, pouring millions of dollars into campaigns that have repeatedly returned Mr. Dodd to Washington, the last two times beating opponents by margins of greater than two to one. Over the last 20 years, he has received millions of dollars from Wall Street, the insurance industry and the largest accounting firms. But he has also taken on large corporate interests.
 Mr. Dodd worked closely with consumer groups to battle the large banks and credit card companies in their ultimately successful attempt to overhaul the bankruptcy system. While Mr. Dodd and his allies failed to block the legislation, they managed to delay its passage by nearly a decade and to water down some of provisions that were especially tough on debtors.
 ''There was no payoff for opposing all of the bankruptcy amendments and in fact all of the money was on the other side and there was plenty of political cover to vote for them,'' recalled Professor Elizabeth Warren of Harvard Law School, a bankruptcy expert who fought the measure. ''But Dodd led the push on the other side. He had an abiding interest in the gritty details of the financial instruments that slowly drive money out of the pockets of middle-class families.''
 In a more recent fight, Mr. Dodd and the consumer groups have promoted a measure to curtail high credit card fees. At a hearing this year, he said that credit cards increasingly were little more than ''pocket-sized predatory loans'' and he has proposed legislation that would curtail the ability of the companies to market credit cards to students who are not able to afford debt.
 On the other hand, Mr. Dodd was on the opposite side from against consumer groups in the 1990s when he sponsored legislation that made it more difficult for investors' lawyers to sue corporations. In that fight, he also broke ranks with many Democrats, including President Bill Clinton, who vetoed the legislation but then did nothing to stop Mr. Dodd from marshaling enough votes to override the veto.
 More recently, Mr. Dodd and consumer groups were at odds over a plan supported by the insurance industry to extend a federal terrorism insurance program.
 More often than not, Senator Dodd is known for being effective. 
 ''He's been a consumer champion on some issues and opposed to us on some issues,'' Mr. Plunkett said. ''He is extremely effective, so you always want him on your side. When we see he is going to be in the opposition, we definitely wince.''
 More than a week after the election, Mr. Dodd still seemed surprised that the Democrats had recaptured the Senate and was just beginning to figure out in what direction he hoped to take the committee. 
 Mr. Dodd, who has formed a presidential exploratory committee and will decide early next year whether to enter the race formally, said a candidacy would help get him out of Washington to hear the views of a wider variety of people. ''One of the advantages, if I do this, is that I know who I am,'' he said. ''And I'm not going through some metamorphosis here. This is not a warm-up for something. For me to go around and become someone I'm not would be ridiculous on its face. I wouldn't be comfortable with it anyway.''
 He said he prided himself on not always taking positions that sided with either business or the consumer.
 ''We spent a lot of time on the credit card issue from a consumer perspective,'' he said. ''Obviously I've got to pay attention to the provider side. I saw an article describing me and that said I wasn't allergic to business. That's true.
 ''I've got business interests I've got to pay attention to,'' he added. ''But I also want to make sure that, in the process of doing so, that we recognize there is a consumer at the end of that product.''
 He said he wants to always be known for ''maintaining independence in terms of approach.''
 ''I don't ever want to be a predictable member of that committee,'' he said, ''to be branded somehow, one way or the other, but to be fair and open and listen to arguments.''
 His support of his home state industries is hardly reflexive. Some of the biggest insurers in his state, for instance, have been lobbying hard for legislation that would permit them to be regulated by Washington instead of the states. But Mr. Dodd has not signed on. He said he was not convinced that Washington could do a better job than state commissioners had been doing. 
 ''Dodd has been a question mark on the proposal,'' said Frank Keating, the former governor of Oklahoma who is the president of the American Council of Life Insurers. He said the issue of a federal charter for insurers is the single biggest one for the industry. ''He has always been very open minded and a fair broker on the issues,'' Mr. Keating added. ''But he's also a tough and questioning legislator.''
 Mr. Dodd's ascension to the committee chair comes at a moment of transition for the banking panel. 
 Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, the cerebral senior Democrat of the committee who was the most important lawmaker behind the landmark legislation that is named after him, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is retiring. So is Mr. Sarbanes's top adviser, Steven B. Harris, who has been a senior Democratic aide to the committee for 20 years, and is widely credited with stewarding the legislation through Congress. 
 Mr. Dodd will oversee a committee loaded with both Democratic and Republican lawmakers who have also raised millions of dollars and supported the causes of the big banks, Wall Street and the major insurance companies. Some members have begun to publicly question important parts of the Sarbanes-Oxley law.
 And the new chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Barney Frank of Massachusetts, has said that he thinks regulators can make adjustments to the law so that it is less burdensome on small business.
 Mr. Dodd's own imprint was on that law. Months before Mr. Sarbanes filed the legislation, Mr. Dodd and a Democratic colleague from the committee, Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey (now New Jersey's governor), outlined their ideas for legislation over lunch, as Mr. Dodd describes it, ''on a napkin in a Senate cafeteria.''
 ''I came away thinking we'll plant a flag,'' Mr. Dodd recalled. Their proposal, to restrict accountants from offering both auditing and consulting work at the same companies, became a cornerstone of the Sarbanes-Oxley law.
 Mr. Dodd said Sarbanes-Oxley had gone far to promote better corporate governance and transparency.
 ''I've always felt that the most important thing you have to worry about is investor confidence,'' he said. ''I have no obligation whatsoever to guarantee that you're going to make sure that you are going to make money on your investment. But I feel a very strong obligation,'' he added, that ''you didn't lose it because the system broke down. That to me is going to be very important when I listen to these arguments.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day Wednesday about Senator Christopher J. Dodd as he prepares to take over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee referred imprecisely to his planning for a possible presidential bid. While Mr. Dodd is considering a run for president, he has not formed a exploratory committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut will become chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Inside the Campaign ChestSince 1989, financial services firms have been the largest source of campaign contributions for Senator Christopher Dodd.CORPORATE CONTRIBUTORS, 1989-2006Deloitte & Touche: $194,970Greenwich Capital Markets: 182,000Bear Stearns: 159,650Citigroup: 157,000Goldman Sachs: 146,516United Technologies: 124,550PricewaterhouseCoopers: 113,850J.P. Morgan Chase: 108,423Morgan Stanley: 99,725American International Group: 97,338Lehman Brothers: 96,000Ernst & Young: 86,000INDUSTRY CONTRIBUTORS, 1989-2006Securities and investment: $2,187,311Lawyers/law firms: 1,282,123Insurance: 1,080,590Real estate: 799,692Accountants: 573,403Commercial banks: 553,719TV/movies/music: 548,294Lobbyists: 470,339Pharmaceuticals/health products: 414,378Pro-Israel: 396,150Retired: 275,775Health professionals: 275,043(Source by The Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); ACCOUNTING (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); LAYOFFS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); LITIGATION (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



514 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Gaining Power, Losing Values

BYLINE: By Pankaj Mishra. 
Pankaj Mishra is the author of ''Temptations of the West: How to Be Modern in India, Pakistan, Tibet and Beyond.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT Hu Jintao of China, who arrived in New Delhi on Monday to consolidate ties between the world's two fastest rising economic powers, can feel comfortable that at least one protester won't be troubling him. 
 When China's prime minister at the time, Zhu Rongji, visited Mumbai in January 2002, Tenzin Tsundue, a young Tibetan, scaled 14 floors of scaffolding to unfurl ''Free Tibet'' banners outside his five-star hotel. Last year in Bangalore, Mr. Tsundue appeared on the roof of a 200-foot tower just above the building where Wen Jiabao, Mr. Zhu's successor as prime minister, was meeting Indian scientists. From there he threw pamphlets at bystanders, shouting, ''Wen Jiabao, you cannot silence us.''
This year, however, Mr. Tsundue has been silenced, although not by Chinese leaders. Invoking a penal code established by India's colonial rulers, the Indian police have imposed a travel ban on Mr. Tsundue. He is not allowed outside Dharamsala, the Himalayan town where the Dalai Lama and many of India's nearly 100,000 Tibetan refugees live. This week he is under constant surveillance by armed police officers. 
 Pre-emptive arrests of and even police assaults on Tibetan protesters are not new in India. But the government's gagging of a well-known writer and activist like Mr. Tsundue raises questions about the moral values that India and China, the emerging superpowers of the new century, are likely to embody. 
 Both countries have mollycoddled Myanmar's extraordinarily repressive military rulers, which hints that neither is likely to let the human rights of the Burmese get in the way of trade. China's growing relationship with Sudan suggests that even genocide may not interfere with the supply of raw materials to China's perennially needy manufacturers. 
 Upholding business interests above all in its foreign policy, as in its domestic policy, China at least appears to be internally consistent. The gap between image and reality is greater in the case of India, which claims to be the world's largest democracy, with an educated middle class and a free news media. 
 And yet fundamental rights to clean water, food and work remain empty abstractions to hundreds of millions of Indians, whose plight rarely impinges on the news media's obsession with celebrity and consumption. The country's culture of greed partly explains why a woman is killed by her husband or in-laws every 77 minutes for failing to bring sufficient dowry.
 Pundits in India deplore, often gleefully, American excesses in Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib, and the inadequacies of the American news media in the run-up to the war in Iraq. But the Indian news media has yet to carry a single detailed report on the torture and extrajudicial killing of hundreds of civilians in Kashmir over the last decade. 
 Chinese nationalism is a tamed beast, occasionally unleashed by the Communist leadership to stir up mass protests against Japan and America. But in India, religious nationalists have run wild in the last 10 years, conducting nuclear tests, menacing minorities and threatening Pakistan with all-out war. In 2002, members of a Hindu nationalist government in the state of Gujarat, in western India, instigated and often organized the killing of as many as 1,600 Muslims. 
 Free markets and regular elections alone do not make a civil society. There remains the task of creating and strengthening institutions -- universities, news media, human rights groups -- that can focus public attention on the fate of the powerless and oppressed and spread ideas of human dignity, compassion and generosity. 
 This task is never perfectly realized. But at least in the United States, many liberal institutions have vigorously pursued such goals, even as successive governments have made their pacts with various devils around the world. 
 For Western nations to criticize Chinese investments in Africa or Indian overtures to Myanmar may seem hypocritical in light of the West's history of ruthlessly exploiting Africa while appeasing its brutal dictators. But, as La Rochefoucauld pointed out, hypocrisy is the tribute vice pays to virtue. 
 However tainted in practice, the idea of virtue cannot be discarded in policymaking. By treating it with contempt, the ruling elites of India and China may soon make the world nostalgic for the days when America claimed, deeply hypocritically, its moral leadership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); WRITERS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); GENOCIDE (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); REFUGEES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); CRIMINAL LAW (53%) Freedom and Human Rights; International Trade and World Market; News and News Media

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); DALAI LAMA (73%); WEN JIABAO (73%) Pankaj Mishra

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (95%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MYANMAR (93%); SUDAN (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (79%) China; Myanmar ; India; Sudan; China; China

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



515 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: A Partner For Mr. Hu

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Memo From: Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.
 To: President Hu Jintao of China.
 Dear President Hu: I am sure you thought that your first letter from me would be about trade and human rights. Those issues still animate my party. But I'm convinced that we have a better chance of making progress on them if we can first build a partnership to address the urgent issues of energy and climate change, which affect us both.
President Hu, President Bush promised the world when he spurned the Kyoto Protocols that he would offer an alternative. He never did. So I will. I want to propose a ''New Shanghai Communique.'' The 1972 Shanghai Communique forged an understanding between China and the U.S. to defuse the most destabilizing issue of that day: the struggle over Taiwan. The New Shanghai Communique would defuse the most destabilizing issue of our day: the world's unsustainable appetite for energy. 
 What should a New Shanghai Communique include? First, China has committed to a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption for every 1 percent of G.D.P. growth by 2010 -- a courageous commitment that Mr. Bush has also failed to make. I will see you and raise you. I am going to propose that the U.S. as a whole match the 4 percent annual improvement in energy efficiency already undertaken by California. That would mean at least a 25 percent improvement by 2012.
 China has also just imposed a national renewable energy requirement, setting a target of generating 10 percent of its energy from renewables -- wind, hydro, solar power and biofuels -- by 2020. I will see you and raise you again. I want to require our power grid operators to purchase 20 percent of their energy from environmentally sound renewables by 2020.
 President Hu, if we can hit these targets we would put our countries -- the two largest emitters of carbon dioxide -- on a much more sustainable growth path and set an example that would change the world. We would create less dependence on despotic oil states, encourage everyone to be energy efficient and climate friendly, and create more room in the energy market for big emerging economies, like China, to grow without competing head-on with America for oil and gas. Instead of fighting over a shrinking pie of fossil fuels, let's create a huge new energy pie -- from renewables and efficiency savings.
 Second, I want to lead an effort to help China invest in factories devoted to clean power technologies -- green cars, solar panels, wind turbines -- in some of our states, like Ohio, most hurt by globalization. Green energy is going to be the growth industry of the 21st century. We have some great technologies. You have $1 trillion in reserves because of your trade surplus with us. Nothing would improve China's standing in America more than using its reserves, as Japan did, to create good U.S. jobs and profits for Chinese companies -- all while advancing the clean power industry.
 Third, I propose we send over a ''Green Corps'' of U.S. engineers to travel across China and demonstrate something many Chinese officials do not understand: being green is profitable. Too many of your local officials think green is a luxury you can't afford. You will never break out of your cycle of environmental degradation until those officials understand that pollution is wasted energy and wasted money. Our best companies, like G.E. and DuPont, consistently find that operating ''green'' costs much less than they anticipate and saves much more.
 President Hu, we both know that the millions of cars now choking your streets are only the beginning. Your biggest concern is the 800 million Chinese living in the countryside, who need transportation to better their lives but who can't afford even the cheapest car. Every year they buy more than 30 million motorcycles and farm vehicles, which have the advantage of being cheap but which use the most rudimentary, polluting motors -- blackening your skies. 
 We need to bring our U.S. engineers, who know how to clean up small engines, together with your manufacturers, who know how to mass produce them cheaply, to forge companies that will not only clean up the air in developing countries but make money for both of us. If that happens, President Hu, China has the potential not just to have a ''Green Olympics'' in 2008, but to offer the developing world a whole new model of sustainable growth. 
 President Hu, over 40 years ago your country tried to make a Great Leap Forward alone -- to change China. This time, let us make a Great Green Leap Forward together -- and change the world.
 Best wishes, Nancy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); BIOMASS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (71%); BIOFUELS (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); CONSUMPTION (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather; Global Warming

PERSON: HU JINTAO (94%); NANCY PELOSI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; Nancy (Rep) Pelosi; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



516 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Agenda: This Time, Terrorism Takes a Back Seat to Trade Issues

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Three years ago President Bush toured Asia just months after the fall of Baghdad, and declared that ''every nation in Asia and across the world now faces a choice.'' 
 In a series of high-energy stops across the Pacific, he urged leaders to pour money and manpower into rebuilding Iraq. In private meetings, he expressed confidence that Iraq would have a ''demonstration effect'' on states like North Korea and Iran, and urged Asian leaders to reshape the world with the United States.
Today, that moment appears as one of the high points of American power in Mr. Bush's tenure. On the five-day tour of Singapore, Vietnam and Indonesia that Mr. Bush completed with a visit here to the Pacific Command at Pearl Harbor on Tuesday, the sweep of the president's agenda was diminished, his initiatives far more modest, his rallying calls for fighting terrorism more muted. 
 The question is why. Perhaps it was an example of what Graham E. Fuller, a former vice chairman of the National Intelligence Council, described recently as ''superpower fatigue'' -- a sense that Washington is overstretched, and that other nations sense the opening that creates for them. 
 As Iraq grew ever more violent and complicated, Mr. Fuller wrote in the latest issue of The National Interest, ''diverse countries have deployed a multiplicity of strategies and tactics designed to weaken, divert, alter, complicate, limit, delay or block the Bush agenda through death by a thousand cuts.'' 
 But there are other explanations, including a belated awakening within the Bush administration that the agenda of its Asian allies is very different from Washington's. Iraq is rarely in the headlines in the countries Mr. Bush visited. Yet the resentments that have built up over the years, as Mr. Bush pressed his security and counterterrorism agenda ahead of the Asian desire to find ways to spur economic growth, are the subject of regular commentary.
 ''The Asians got tired of all this homework, and began to organize their own summit, one that excluded the United States, to return to the trade issues they view as so central,'' said Michael Green, who left the administration late last year after running the Asia side of the National Security Council. ''I think some in the administration realized we were sounding a little shrill on terrorism -- because there has been a lot of quiet cooperation in Asia -- and it was time to get the president back to the trade agenda.''
 So instead of pressing the hunt for Al Qaeda affiliates in Indonesia and terror groups like Abu Sayyaf in the Philippines, this time Mr. Bush talked about the distant goal of creating a free trade area in the Pacific. 
 The talk was motivated partly by a desire to avoid American exclusion: Mr. Bush's proposal for a sprawling free-trade area would compete with calls in Asia for a regional one that would exclude non-Asian countries. But it was less of an initiative than a long-range vision, like President Clinton's call for a ''free trade area of the Americas'' in the early 1990s. 
 ''It's a recognition that in Asia, economics is where the game is -- with China, and of course with India and others -- and in that arena, the president has been in deep kimchi,'' said James Lilley, who served as American ambassador to China and South Korea, and is close to Mr. Bush's father. 
 Mr. Bush's aides, not surprisingly, deny that the administration's troubles in Iraq are limiting his influence in places like Southeast Asia. Such explanations, they argue, are creations of the news media, seeking a storyline of presidential decline after the Republican defeat in the midterm elections. 
 Yet it was striking that a president who came to office with hopes of dominating the agenda in Asia felt the need on this trip to make the case that the United States could be counted on to stay around. 
 ''America will remain engaged in Asia, because our interests depend on the expansion of freedom and opportunity in this region,'' he said in a speech in Singapore. In what seemed to be a message directed back home, to a Congress he will no longer control come January, he warned against growing isolationist tendencies that would cede American influence. Left unsaid was the obvious: that if America retreats, China, India and others will gain.
 The true test may come in the next few months, as Mr. Bush manages the diplomacy over North Korea. On previous trips to Asia, he has declared the world could not ''tolerate'' a nuclear North Korea. Last month, the North Koreans set off their first nuclear test, leaving no doubt that they have a working weapon, even if it is one that did not work very well.
 The backroom diplomacy of this trip was centered on joining forces with China and others to lure or compel the North Koreans to make a symbolic step toward disarmament. But the North Koreans know that America's military is stretched to the limit already, and that, unlike the situation three years ago, there is little reason to fear that Washington's demands may be backed up by force. 
 And the rest of Asia, while interested in seeing the North Korean issue resolved, is even more interested in stability. For them, containment of Pyongyang would be fine; disarmament, Bush-style, a little too provocative. 
 ''You go to a meeting in Asia these days, and these issues never come up,'' said David Rothkopf, a former Commerce Department official who wrote a definitive history of the National Security Council. ''The Asians think that the world is a really great place right now, and they are making progress at a speed never thought possible before. And Bush's agenda, it just doesn't scan.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Playing down security and the war in Iraq, which are not Asia's top concerns, on this trip President Bush spoke of a free trade zone, which is. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); AL-QAEDA (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) HAWAII, USA (79%) ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Iraq; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



517 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: LEBANON OFFICIAL CRITICAL OF SYRIA IS ASSASSINATED

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nada Bakri and Katherine Zoepf contributed from Beirut, and Julia Preston from the United Nations.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Pierre Gemayel, a Lebanese cabinet minister and strong opponent of Syrian influence in Lebanon, was gunned down in his car here on Tuesday afternoon, jolting a nation already paralyzed by political conflict that threatens to topple the government.
 The killing of Mr. Gemayel, the 34-year-old scion of a prominent Maronite Christian family, inflamed tensions between the anti-Syria coalition trying to hold its government together and the Syrian-allied opposition, led by Hezbollah. An Iranian-supported Shiite group, Hezbollah has threatened street protests if it is not given more power.
The demonstrations were expected Thursday. Now, there will be a funeral instead.
 Lebanese radio reported that shots were also fired Tuesday into the Beirut office of Michel Pharaon, a Greek Catholic member of the ruling coalition and minister for parliamentary affairs. 
 Lebanon's prime minister, Fouad Siniora, vowed in a televised speech that his government would hold firm. ''I pledge to you that your blood will not go in vain,'' Mr. Siniora said. ''We will not let the murderers control the fate of Lebanon and the future of its children.''
 In truth, his government may already be on life support. Last week, six pro-Syria ministers aligned with Hezbollah resigned after a failed effort to gain greater control over the government. A seventh minister had resigned earlier in an unrelated conflict.
 With Mr. Gemayel's death, there may now be too few ministers to pass any measures, and it appears that if the government were to lose one more minister it would automatically collapse.
 The prime minister's political allies in the so-called March 14 coalition -- a pro-Western group of Sunni Muslims, Druse and Christians -- blamed Syria for the killing. 
 ''We believe the hand of Syria is all over the place,'' Saad Hariri, the son of the assassinated former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, said shortly after Mr. Gemayel was pronounced dead.
 Officials in Damascus and Syria's allies in Lebanon condemned the killing.
 Mr. Gemayel, the industry minister, was the fifth anti-Syria figure to be killed since Mr. Hariri's assassination rocked Lebanon in February 2005.
 The killing reverberated far beyond Lebanon. Condemnations poured in from Britain, Germany, Italy, France, the European Union, Jordan, Egypt and the United States. 
 President Bush suggested in a statement that the assassination was part of a plan by Syria, Iran and its allies to ''foment instability and violence'' in Lebanon.
 The United States is heavily invested in the survival of Mr. Siniora's government, which has offered Washington a chance -- however faded -- to thwart the spread of Iranian influence in the region. 
 The killing also is likely to complicate any American effort to enlist Syria's help to stabilize Iraq. The United States withdrew its ambassador from Damascus after Mr. Hariri was assassinated nearly two years ago and suspicion fell heavily on Syria. Now the White House is under pressure domestically and abroad to engage with Syria and Iran to quell the violence in Iraq. 
 But the suspicion that Syria is behind the efforts to destabilize Lebanon will make it nearly impossible for Washington to send a full ambassador back to Damascus without appearing to have abandoned the Siniora government. 
 At the same time, any allegation of Syria's involvement is likely to antagonize Syrian officials -- and make them even more reluctant to back off of a military, political and economic alliance with Iran.
 For a time, after the initial occupation of Iraq and the assassination of Mr. Hariri, Syria's ruling elite felt threatened, vulnerable and isolated. Syria was humiliated when it was forced, after the Hariri killing, to withdraw its military forces from Lebanon. 
 But in recent days, Syria has found its strategic stature in the Middle East bolstered by the surge of violence in Iraq, and the suggestion that Washington might soon ask for its help. While it has denied any role in any of the Lebanon violence, it has not denied its desire to reinsert itself as the primary force in Lebanon.
 ''This is a crime against Lebanon, all of Lebanon,'' Hassan Khalil, a pro-Syria member of Parliament and member of the Shiite Amal party, said in a television interview. ''This is a crime that we condemn.''
 In the complex and shadowy world of Lebanon's long-warring factions, conspiracy theories can cut both ways. Syrian officials and their Lebanese allies said the only beneficiaries of Mr. Gemayel's death were anti-Syria forces. They also argued that the newly inflamed environment would make it impossible for Hezbollah to follow through anytime soon with its promised protests. 
 The United Nations Security Council, spurred by Mr. Gemayel's killing, approved a proposal by Secretary General Kofi Annan for the creation of an international tribunal to try those accused of Mr. Hariri's assassination. 
 The tribunal still has one major hurdle to clear before it can go to work: it must be approved by the government of Lebanon, which is deeply divided over its existence. Moreover, no one has yet been charged in Mr. Hariri's death.
 While young, Mr. Gemayel was a third-generation politician from a family that founded a far-right, nationalist party called Phalange. The party fielded the largest militia during Lebanon's civil war and sought to unite Christians against all other groups. The party today is very small, yet Mr. Gemayel stood as a potent symbol to a portion of Lebanon's Christian community that is frightened and angered by its loss of primacy in Lebanon's political arena.
 ''He is not powerful in himself,'' said Elie Fawaz, a Lebanese political analyst. ''But his uncle was president, his father was president, his grandfather founded the Phalange. He's a symbol of all that history much more than he is a power on the streets. This is a great blow to Lebanese Christians in general.''
 This latest assassination to scar the Gemayel family -- Mr. Gemayel's uncle, Bashir, was also killed -- occurred in broad daylight, in a brazen attack even for a country weary of political killings. While other anti-Syria figures have been killed in the past two years, Mr. Gemayel was the first to be shot in the head and not blown up with a bomb.
 Mr. Gemayel was in the passenger seat of his own silver Kia, driving through the Christian neighborhood of Jdeideh, which he represented in Parliament. About 4 p.m., a car rammed into Mr. Gemayel's and three gunmen rushed his car, spraying it with bullets from silencer-equipped automatic weapons, Lebanese security officials said. The driver, who was not injured, drove to St. Joseph's Hospital, where Mr. Gemayel was declared dead.
 Crowds of supporters gathered outside the hospital, weeping, waving their fists and screaming anti-Syria slogans even before the death was confirmed.
 Mr. Gemayel's father, Amin, tried to calm tensions. Shocked and drawn, the former president stood in the street outside the hospital, speaking to reporters and supporters.
 ''I would like to ask those who love Pierre to preserve the cause,'' he said. ''We don't want to do anything instinctively. He was serving the cause, and he died for Lebanon, for freedom and for humanity. And we should not desecrate his memory by any irresponsible acts.''
 While there was anger in the streets, there was also palpable anxiety. The city slowed down, as it might before a storm. Shops closed early in downtown Beirut; the army began patrolling the streets.
 On the campus of the American University of Beirut, hundreds of students gathered near the main gate, discussing the news in hushed tones. Ali Hamadeh, 18, a first-year civil engineering student, voiced the fears of many students in describing his anxieties about the future.
 ''We think it may lead to another civil war,'' Mr. Hamadeh said. ''It's a disaster for Lebanon, on the level of the Hariri assassination. The people will go to the streets -- and at the very least the government will change.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amin Gemayel, center, Pierre Gemayel's father, left the hospital where his son's body was taken yesterday. (Photo by Kate Brooks/Polaris, for The New York Times)
Lebanese security surrounded Pierre Gemayel's bullet-riddled car yesterday. The minister was gunned down in a Christian area of Beirut. (Photo by Wael Hamzeh/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Pierre Gemayel was the fifth critic of Syria to be killed since 2005. (Photo by Paul Assaker/Polaris)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); COUPS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLITICS (77%); RELIGION (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%) Assassinations and Assassination Attempts; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%) Hezbollah

PERSON: FOUAD SINIORA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Michael Slackman; Pierre Gemayel; Fouad (Prime Min) Siniora; Michel Pharaon

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) SYRIA (98%); LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) Lebanon; Syria; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



518 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 895 words

 BODY:

GOOGLE, STILL FEELING LUCKY -- Google's shares closed up $14.60 at $509.65, rising past the $500 mark for the first time, not bad for a company that was forced to reduce its initial share price to $85 barely two years ago because of lackluster demand. And an analyst who once recommended selling at $137 is among those predicting that it will rise to $600 within a year. [Page C1.] 


A LINE IN THE SAND -- Rupert Murdoch has pushed the boundaries throughout his career, usually without contrition. But the media billionaire's decision to cancel a TV and book project featuring O. J. Simpson by subsidiaries of the News Corporation was a rare demonstration that even Mr. Murdoch has his limits. [C1.]

RIGHTS TO SIMPSON BOOK SOUGHT -- Seeking to prevent a canceled book and television interview with O. J. Simpson from ever becoming public, the family of Ronald L. Goldman, who was murdered along with Nicole Brown Simpson in 1994, has asked the News Corporation to turn over the rights to the material. [C5.]

INVESTORS SHOW FAITH IN DELL -- Dell reported another quarter of slow revenue growth and falling profits, compared to year-earlier results. But investors looked at the marked improvement from the previous quarter as a sign of a turnaround and pushed the company's stock up in after-hours trading. [C1.]

SENATOR AT THE CROSSROADS -- As Senator Christopher Dodd prepares to take over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee while also considering a run for the presidency, lobbyists and lawmakers are all asking the same question. Will he be a populist champion for the middle class or will he advance the causes of corporate patrons? [C1.]

ASIAN GIANTS SEEK CLOSER TIES -- India and China established a 10-point strategy to strengthen economic relations as President Hu Jintao of China, left, started a four-day visit to India. As he and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India came face to face, there was evidence that they were trying to define the Asian version of globalization. [C2.]

SHORT-LIVED SOFTWARE CEASE-FIRE -- Less than three weeks after they reached an accord hailed as proof that open source and proprietary software companies could work together, Novell and Microsoft executives are bickering in public. [C4.]

POTATO TODAY, GONE TOMORROW -- The United States Potato Board is joining the ranks of marketers using a technique known as pop-up retailing, opening a temporary store that consumers can visit for a short time. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]

LENS CLEANER RECALLED -- Advanced Medical Optics has recalled 2.9 million bottles of Complete MoisturePlus contact lens solution after harmful bacteria were found in some units sold in Japan. The company's shares fell 8.9 percent, and the company issued lowered forecasts for sales and earnings through 2007. The voluntary recall is a precaution against eye infections caused by water-borne bacteria that infiltrated a plant in China; no problems have been reported in the United States. [C6.]

COMCAST AND DISNEY IN DEAL -- The Comcast Corporation and the Walt Disney Company have signed a multibillion-dollar distribution deal that allows the cable operator to distribute Disney content through its video-on-demand service. [C10.]

G.M. SCUTTLES SATURN MINIVAN -- General Motors confirmed that it had decided not to build a Saturn minivan that was tentatively planned for production at its Spring Hill, Tenn., plant, but the company said that it would find a new vehicle for workers there to build. Union leaders said they feared the plant, where the first Saturn was built, would close. [C4.]

PENTAGON SEEKS SUPERCOMPUTER -- The Pentagon awarded almost $500 million in contracts to I.B.M. and Cray Inc. to design a supercomputer several times as fast as today's most powerful systems. [C8.]

AVIATION COMPANY RISES IN DEBUT -- Shares of Spirit AeroSystems Holdings, a unit of Onex, the Canadian leveraged buyout company, rose 12 percent in their first day of trading in New York yesterday. Onex formed Spirit in June 2005 after acquiring Boeing's aircraft component factories in Wichita, Kan., and Tulsa and McAlester, Okla. Spirit stock opened at $26 and ended the day's trading at $29 a share. [C8]

STOCKS RISE WITH OIL PRICES -- Stocks resumed their November advance yesterday after an increase in oil prices lifted the Exxon Mobil Corporation, the world's biggest energy company, and shares of Google surpassed $500 for the first time. [C8.]

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

The accounting firm KPMG asked a federal appeals panel to rule that a district judge could not compel the firm to pay the legal fees of former executives facing criminal charges in a tax-shelter fraud investigation. (DOW JONES)

The bookstore operator Borders Group said that its third-quarter loss widened as sales edged down. The company reported a loss of $39.1 million, or 64 cents a share, for the quarter that ended Oct. 28 compared with a loss of $14.1 million, or 20 cents in the period a year ago. (AP)

Higher prices for farm and lawn-care equipment helped Deere & Company increase its fourth-quarter profit by 19 percent, the company said Tuesday. The share price rose sharply, even as the company warned of a sales slowdown. (AP)

EarthLink, the Internet access provider, said that its chief executive, Garry Betty, would take a medical leave to fight cancer. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Advanced Medical Optics shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (50%); BACTERIA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); NEWS CORP (92%); NOVELL INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); ABBOTT MEDICAL OPTICS INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (70%); MANMOHAN SINGH (50%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (50%); HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



519 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Words: Restore the Draft?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Rejecting the Draft'' (editorial, Nov. 21):
 If, as President Bush insists, the Iraq war is the ultimate struggle for civilization, a draft seems like the least our country should ask of its citizenry.
 Of course, there won't ever be a draft for this fiasco because while the military, Congress and to a large extent the mainstream media are championing and enabling this war, the American people are not, especially not the children of the chattering classes. 
 So Representative Charles B. Rangel is shrewd to call America's bluff. We haven't taken any of the steps that dignify a commitment to war: a declaration of war, universal conscription, the reorientation of the economy and tax increases primarily to support the war effort, and sacrifice as a civic given. 
 If you can't decide if you're really in a war, then, trust me, you aren't. Despite what you say, drafts are not inherently unjust, but many wars (Vietnam, Iraq) turn out that way. Unjust wars make drafts immoral.

Richard Roth
Seattle, Nov. 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bravo to Representative Charles B. Rangel for his courage, and shame on you for dismissing a new military draft. If the draft had been in place before the war, we could have avoided this disaster. 
 The war in Iraq has been waged with entirely too little consequence for the vast majority of Americans who are not connected to the military. Unlike the situation in World War II, there are no war bonds or victory gardens or any sense of shared national sacrifice beyond crass yellow ribbon stickers placed on the back of oil-guzzling automobiles. 
 The staggering cost might as well be Monopoly money, as we shamefully pass the cost on to our grandchildren by increasing the debt. 
 As a recent college graduate and a vehement opponent of the war from its inception, I welcome the return of a universal draft to end the practice of going to war with other people's money and other people's children. 

Christian Danielsen
Portland, Ore., Nov. 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 Your editorial responds to some of Representative Charles B. Rangel's reasons for calling for the reinstatement of the draft, but not one of the main ones:
 Does having a draft make it harder to begin and sustain wars like the one in Iraq? 
 The strength of the Vietnam antiwar movement was no doubt fed by the threat of being drafted, even if the draft was full of loopholes for the rich and better connected. 
 Though the public lies about weapons of mass destruction and a Saddam Hussein-terrorist connection might have fooled the public even with a draft, resistance to the war might have materialized in an organized form earlier and with more force if a draft had been in place and the threat of broader sacrifice had been present as a motivator against President Bush's adventurism. 

Norman Daniels
Brewster, Mass., Nov. 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Rejecting the Draft'':
 Is a draft politically impossible? We have some historical precedents. So to institute one would be difficult but not impossible. 
 One objection cited in the editorial is that you don't build a highly skilled army by forcing people to serve. But that is an insult to World War II veterans and other vets who fought with intellect and valor. 
 The wealthy or well connected get deferments? This is a matter of recruitment policy. 
 Alternative service? O.K. for conscientious objectors, but do not confuse obligation to defend America with obligation to promote social welfare. 
 I support national conscription as a way of sharing the burden, enjoying social equity and relieving us of the shame of being defended by the minority ''moved by patriotism or propelled by economics.'' 
 Right on, Charles Rangel!

Samuel Z. Klausner
Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 While I agree with you that reinstating the draft is not the solution, I also strongly agree with Representative Charles B. Rangel that we should all share some of the burden when the country goes to war. 
 If our leaders had asked for a greater shared burden before sending us to war in Iraq, we would be more united as a country today through our shared ''ownership'' of the problem. 
 Rather than the draft, why not impose a stiff $2-per-gallon gasoline war tax? Such a tax should be structured to end as soon as the war ends and the vast majority of our troops have returned. 
 Nearly all of us would feel the sting, and would share a desire to find real solutions rather than using the misery for political advantage.
 A $2-per-gallon war tax could finance much of the war's cost without saddling future generations with debt, and would force all of us to consider how our enormous consumption of oil contributes to the problem. 

Per Halvorsen
Branford, Conn., Nov. 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 Representative Charles B. Rangel's proposal to reinstate the draft is not a military strategy. Rather, it is intended to get the college crowd off its iPods and into the streets to end this illegal and immoral war.

Jerry Wallingford
San Diego, Nov. 21, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Thomas Fuchs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TAX LAW (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); TERRORISM (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Charles B (Rep) Rangel; Richard (Seattle) Roth; Christian Danielsen; Norman Daniels; Samuel Z Klausner; Per Halvorsen; Jerry Wallingford

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



520 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Aircraft Parts Maker Surge on First Trading Day 

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Shares in the Spirit AeroSystems Holdings unit of Onex, the Canadian leveraged buyout company, rose 12 percent on Tuesday, their first day of trading in New York.
 Onex formed Spirit in June 2005 after acquiring Boeing's aircraft component factories in Wichita, Kan., and Tulsa and McAlester, Okla., for $1.1 billion in cash and the assumption of about $400 million in debt. Tuesday's initial public offering, which sold about 41 percent of Spirit's shares, gave the company a market value of about $3.8 billion. 
Shares of Spirit opened at $26 and ended the day's trading at $29 a share.
 Onex, based in Toronto, declined to comment on the successful offering, saying that it was in a quiet period before releasing financial results.
 It is not the only beneficiary of the market's warm reaction. A large number of employees and managers at Spirit were minority investors. In addition, about five million shares were set aside for Spirit's unionized employees.
 Boeing, which remains Spirit's largest customer, sold the unit as part of an effort to concentrate on final assembly of aircraft by outsourcing parts making. In January, Spirit added Airbus to its customer list by buying a wing factory in England and Scotland from BAE Systems for $162 million. That purchase was financed with Spirit's revenues.
 Spirit, which is based in Wichita, earned $86 million on revenue of $2.36 billion in the first nine months of its fiscal year, and it has benefited from a surge in aircraft orders. It provides lightweight carbon fiber fuselage parts for Boeing's successful new model, the 787 Dreamliner.
 The public offering has reduced Onex's control of the company's voting shares to 92 percent from 98.2 percent. It now holds about 57 percent of the common stock.
 Spirit will get about $270.8 million from the stock sale, and $100 million of that will be used to pay down debt. The Onex investor group will receive $1.16 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%) 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (90%); AIRBUS SAS (90%); SPIRIT AEROSYSTEMS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Spirit AeroSystems Holdings; Onex Corp

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); BA (LSE) (90%); SPR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (90%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (88%); TULSA, OK, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) KANSAS, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (68%); SCOTLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006



521 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: On the Coast or in the Backwoods, Fault Lines of the Heart 

BYLINE: By S. KIRK WALSH. 
S. Kirk Walsh is a fiction writer based in Austin, Tex.

 BODY:

Permanent Visitors
By Kevin Moffett
154 pages. University of Iowa Press. $15.95, paperback.

Things Kept, Things Left Behind
By Jim Tomlinson
153 pages. University of Iowa Press. $15.95, paperback.
 In the book business, short-story collections by emerging writers are a tough sell. Among the heavyweight publishers these books are rarely bought, and when they are, the deal includes a novel in the not-too-distant future. As a result debut collections by only a handful of new writers make their way to a wider reading public each year.
Fortunately university presses pick up the publishing slack and distribute collections by emerging writers, often in the form of prestigious awards. Most notable among these are the Iowa Short Fiction Award and the John Simmons Short Fiction Award, both given by the University of Iowa Press and selected through the Iowa Writers' Workshop. This year's winners were chosen by the short-story author George Saunders. They are ''Permanent Visitors'' by Kevin Moffett and ''Things Kept, Things Left Behind'' by Jim Tomlinson. 
 In the tradition of many classic story collections -- from the Deep South back roads of Flannery O'Connor's short masterpieces to the sleepy towns of Huron County, Ontario, found in Alice Munro's exquisite work -- both of these books are deeply rooted in a sense of place.
 In ''Permanent Visitors'' Mr. Moffett assembles his crew of marginalized characters amid the condo-lined coast in and near Daytona, Fla., far removed from the spring-break set of Coppertone-slathered tourists. Mr. Tomlinson's collection sheds its rust-filtered light on a cast of hardscrabble, hard-drinking folks, many of whom live in the small town of Spivey, Ky. These books also represent distinct stylistic voices from two generations (Mr. Moffett is 34, Mr. Tomlinson 65), providing readers with a window into Mr. Saunders's wide-ranging fictional aesthetic.
 In his Floridian collection of nine stories Mr. Moffett demonstrates his true talent for portraying characters of small ambition who hope to eke out a little connection with their fellow humanity. His gift for telling these on-the-fringe fictions transcends the standard story, especially when he writes about characters experiencing varying gradations of grief. 
 For example in ''The Fortune Teller,'' the title character rides her bike by the home of her ''last friend,'' M. E. Chaddock, who recently died. An open-house sign is posted on the lawn, so she walks in among a clutch of prospective buyers. 
 Mr. Moffett writes: ''Alone on the porch, the fortune teller tried to sew up her grief, for she could feel her eyes beginning to burn as she looked out at the swimming pool, at a boy who straddled the diving board, dipping his toes into the green water. The pool of her last friend, the last of the outlasted.'' The fortune teller retreats into the house, steals a miniature crystal bell from her friend's collection, and quietly leaves.
 ''The Volunteer's Friend'' is told from the perspective of an older man, Tate, who lost his wife to cancer two years earlier and now has been diagnosed with the disease. Living alone in a condo amid his wife's possessions ( a wig ''pinned to a faceless Styrofoam head''), Tate takes up the hospital's offer for a volunteer, Callie, to visit his home. Their unlikely connection is tender at times, but sadly, it falters. 
 In two stories -- ''Ursa, on Zoo Property and Off'' and ''The Newcomer'' -- Mr. Moffett sidesteps his melancholy tone and embraces the off-the-wall surrealism commonly found in Mr. Saunders 's dazzling stories. ''Ursa'' features an odd alliance of office workers who agree to liberate animals from the downtown zoo. After a day of unexpected adventures, ''everyone seemed to have totally forgotten about our initial reason for going,'' and the narrator manages to convince a bear-suit-clad waitress, Ursa, to return home with him. 
 In ''The Newcomer'' Mr. Moffett tells of the parallel -- and later intersecting -- adventures of two recent immigrants, Spiros and Ekaterina, who enroll in the Institute for Advanced American Furtherance. In both stories the author delivers a handful of absurd, laugh-out-loud moments.
 Now travel a short distance north on Interstate 75, and a reader arrives at the entirely different literary terrain depicted in Mr. Tomlinson's ''Things Kept, Things Left Behind.'' Like the landscape, Mr. Tomlinson's characters in these 11 stories have harder edges than Mr. Moffett's. Their emotions aren't bleached by the Florida sun; instead they are soaked in beer and obscured by the smoky haze of cigarettes. Potential eruptions of physical violence are palpable on the page, often leaving the reader uncomfortable. And as in other backwoods towns, many of the characters are related. 
 The collection's title refers to a pairing of stories that follow LeAnn McCray and her dead-end affair with a former flame, Dexter Chalk, and represent some of Mr. Tomlinson's strongest writing, particularly his ear for regional, familial banter. In ''Things Kept,'' LeAnn is summoned home by her sister, Cass, because their headstrong mother has fallen behind on property taxes. 
 When the mother sees LeAnn for the first time, Mr. Tomlinson writes: ''The old woman levered herself to her feet and surrounded LeAnn in a hug that smelled like pie spice. 'Let me look at you, child.' LeAnn stepped back and twirled a girlish pirouette. 'Why, look at them bones. You been ailing, LeAnn Marie?' 'Been dieting, Mama. I weigh exactly what I should.' ''
 In ''Things Left Behind'' Dexter tries to reconcile his newfound sobriety and his recent tryst with LeAnn: ''Unfaithful. How odd, that word. Odd, because he had faith now, faith for the first time in years, faith in himself, faith in a future beyond the next drink.'' Eventually the story follows LeAnn to her home in Dayton, Ohio, and painfully captures how her unspoken affair splinters her family further apart. 
 Though Mr. Tomlinson's stories don't exhibit the same literary finesse as Mr. Moffett's, he certainly does a first-rate job of bringing his characters to life. He also skillfully packs suspenseful plot turns into these economical stories. For example, in ''The Accomplished Son,'' Toby Polk, an Army specialist on leave from Iraq because his wife is pregnant, confronts the man who paralyzed his father in an accident more than a decade earlier. It's not clear until the story's last sentence if Toby will carry out his own personal mission. 
 With both of these collections a reader will look forward to first novels by Mr. Moffett and Mr. Tomlinson, or if an unusual alignment of the publishing gods occurs, another collection of well-made stories.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Tomlinson
 Kevin Moffett (Photo by Corinna Vallianatos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (76%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (94%)

PERSON: S Kirk Walsh; Kevin Moffett; Jim Tomlinson

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (70%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



522 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Slips But Stays Near 15-Month High 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer confidence for November was below expectations and slipped slightly from the previous month, but still remained near a 15-month high as the holiday shopping season got under way. 
 The University of Michigan's final index of consumer sentiment registered 92.1 in November, a decline from 93.6 the previous month, but it exceeded the 88.1 average since monthly data were first compiled in 1978.
Consumers, whose spending accounts for more than two-thirds of gross domestic product, may strengthen the economy after it grew last quarter at the weakest pace since 2003.
 ''Sentiment is holding up and spending likely will as well in the key holiday season,'' said Doug Porter, deputy chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''Sentiment has been largely driven by the pullback in gasoline prices.''
 For the first time in more than a year, more consumers this month said the economy had improved rather than worsened, the report said. The final Michigan consumer confidence report for the month reflects about 500 responses, compared with the roughly 300 households surveyed for the preliminary survey.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said yesterday that initial jobless claims rose by 12,000, to 321,000, in the week that ended Saturday. The number remains low enough to suggest little weakening in the labor market.
 The level of claims would have to stay near 350,000 to signify a ''fundamentally weaker job market,'' economists at Nomura Securities wrote in a note to clients.
 The expectations index, which some economists view as an indicator of future consumer spending, fell to 83.2, from 84.8 in October, but was still higher than the average reading of 80.4 over the last three decades.
 Job growth, cheaper gasoline and higher stock prices are providing support for consumer spending and offsetting some of the decline in housing, economists said. Fed policy makers have forecast economic growth will maintain a moderate pace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) University of Michigan; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



523 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Court Upholds Jail for Executive 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A federal appeals court yesterday upheld the conviction of the former vice president of the Cendant Corporation, E. Kirk Shelton, who was sentenced to 10 years in prison and ordered to pay restitution for his role in a $3 billion accounting scandal at the travel and real estate company. 
 The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in a six-page order, rejected Mr. Shelton's claims that he was unfairly convicted in January 2005 in Connecticut on 12 counts of conspiracy, mail fraud, wire fraud, securities fraud and making false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Last month, the former chairman of Cendant, Walter A. Forbes was convicted of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and two counts of making false statements in the huge fraud scheme. He is awaiting sentencing.
 Prosecutors said Mr. Shelton of Darien, Conn., drove up the company's share price by inflating revenue by $500 million at Cendant's predecessor, CUC International. The fraud was reported in 1998, causing Cendant's market value to plunge by $14 billion in one day.
 The Cendant scandal foreshadowed the accounting scandals that followed with the collapse of the Internet bubble in 2000. At the time, the $3 billion fraud was described by the government as the largest case of accounting fraud in the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%) Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Cendant Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (92%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (92%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%)

PERSON: E Kirk Shelton

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



524 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise Across the Board; S.& P. Hits 6-Year High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares rose yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a six-year high, as Dell had its biggest rally in more than three years and consumers remained confident before the holiday shopping season.
 Alcoa, the aluminum producer, led a gain in the Dow Jones industrial average after saying it would cut as many as 6,700 jobs to reduce costs. The chemical maker DuPont advanced to its highest level in 18 months after crude oil prices fell. 
''Oil prices are down; consumers are spending,'' said Hans Olsen, who manages $2.3 billion as chief investment officer at Bingham Legg Advisers in Boston. ''We'll have the wind at our backs with the market through the end of the year.''
 The S.& P. 500 added 3.28 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,406.09, a level not seen since November 2000. The Dow average increased 5.36 points, to 12,326.95. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 11.14 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,465.98.
 The rise in stocks was limited because some traders were reluctant to make investments before the market closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. General Motors had the biggest loss in the Dow average after the investor Kirk Kerkorian cut his stake.
 Dell jumped $2.31, or 9 percent, to $27.13, its biggest surge since February 2003. The company, whose accounting is under investigation by regulators, said net income was 30 cents a share in the third quarter, higher than the 24-cent average estimate of analysts.
 Consumers headed into the holiday shopping season with their confidence near a 15-month high. Still, the University of Michigan's final index of consumer sentiment slipped to 92.1 from 93.6 in October.
 A separate report showed that jobless claims rose more than expected last week, while remaining low enough to suggest little sign of weakening in the labor market. Claims increased to 321,000 from the prior week's 309,000. Economists in a Bloomberg survey expected 310,000.
 Alcoa increased $1.24, to $30.43. The company said it would close metal plants and might lay off as much as 5 percent of its work force after some units failed to meet profit goals. Fourth-quarter costs related to the changes will be $375 million to $425 million, Alcoa said.
 A drop in oil prices also aided the market's advance. Crude futures lost 93 cents, to $59.24 after an Energy Department report showed that American oil and gasoline inventories jumped.
 DuPont rose 59 cents, to $48.62, its highest since May 2005. Oil accounts for as much as 60 percent of the company's raw material costs, according to Credit Suisse. 
 G.M. slid $1.52, or 4.7 percent, to $31.09. Mr. Kerkorian, formerly G.M.'s second-largest shareholder, reduced his stake to 42 million shares, or 7.4 percent. He had held a 9.9 percent stake through his company, the Tracinda Corporation.
 ''The U.S. automaking industry is in a tailspin, and I don't want anything to do with it,'' said Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.3 billion at the Chemung Canal Trust Company in Elmira, N.Y.
 A measure of energy shares in the S.& P. 500 dropped 0.6 percent for the worst performance. Exxon Mobil fell 48 cents, to $72.91. Valero Energy, the oil refiner, lost 71 cents, to $52.35.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32, to 10017/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.56 percent from 4.57 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); CHEMICALS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUTURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GASOLINE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); INVENTORIES (68%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



525 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Past Location In Finding Space

BYLINE: By DALIA FAHMY

 BODY:
The employees of ID Society, a Manhattan-based Web design company, have moved offices four times in eight years. They have worked in many environments, including desks with mice scurrying underfoot. 
 ''We were probably killing a mouse a week,'' Jonathan Webb, ID Society's co-founder and president, said of the 2,500 square feet he leased in Chelsea two offices ago. ''We couldn't wait to get out of the lease.''
Mr. Webb, whose eight-year-old business started in his apartment in the Gramercy Park neighborhood and now has gross revenue of $5 million a year and employs 35, is not the only entrepreneur who has been bruised by bad real estate decisions.
 With rent typically the second-largest expense after salaries for small businesses, and with office occupancy costs up sharply in many markets, a simple miscalculation can cost an entrepreneur her business. 
 ''Small-business owners know very little about real estate and most of the time do a terrible job about educating themselves,'' said Richard Parker, a small-business consultant in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. A bad real estate deal can cut into an entrepreneur's monthly profits, drive away clients or even get in the way of selling a business. 
 Pitfalls await at every step, from the moment entrepreneurs start to dream about the perfect space, which they often cannot afford, to the day they install expensive customized furniture they cannot take with them when they move. 
 Mr. Webb has made his share of mistakes. He said he did not adequately factor in growth, leading to frequent relocations, and he waited too long to start looking before each move. ''We'd let it get to where it was bursting at the seams,'' he said. 
 Forecasting how much space a business will need down the line requires a solid business plan, and brokers advise working with a professional space planner before the hunt begins, to help determine how many square feet to allot per employee. 
 ID Society would also have benefited from better advance research, which might have revealed that the mice-ridden office, on a block of restaurants, was poorly maintained.
 Brokers say picking a location is one of the trickiest steps in the process, because decisions are often tainted by emotion. Business owners fall in love with a neighborhood and waste months of legwork before coming to the realization that it is not right for them. 
 Brian Wolken and his wife, Tracy O'Grady, two of the three owners of Willow, a restaurant in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va., originally had their hearts set on opening in their hometown, Falls Church, Va. But after looking for three years and watching two deals crumble, they realized they could not afford their dream.
 Then, by accident, they heard about a fully equipped restaurant for sale in Ballston, an up-and-coming section of Arlington, just 10 minutes from their house.
 ''We hadn't been there in years. We were like, 'Ballston? What's going on in Ballston?' '' Mr. Wolken recalled. When he went to investigate, he quickly recognized its potential. The area was dotted with construction cranes. ''It looked like I was driving through East Berlin during the renovation,'' he said. ''It looked like something was getting ready to explode.'' 
 Mr. Wolken and Ms. O'Grady obtained demographic projections from a local economic development office that backed up their impression about the imminent boom. 
 Then the couple began lease negotiations. 
 In tight markets like Washington entrepreneurs sometimes think they have survived the worst once they have found a suitable space. But many deals fall apart at the negotiating table. 
 The most obvious term to negotiate is rent, but brokers say business owners should also pay attention to hidden expenses. Commercial landlords typically add utility costs to the monthly bill, plus a share of the taxes for the building.
 ''Owners try to turn certain things in their buildings into profit centers,'' said Henry Goldfarb, a commercial broker at Grubb & Ellis. He explained that landlords try to pass on as many costs as possible to minimize their financial risk if other parts of the building underperform.
 But if an entrepreneur's demands are reasonable, Mr. Goldfarb said, landlords do not mind making concessions. 
 Many landlords offer several months of free rent to help ease the company's transition into the new space. In some markets, they even offer cash to pay for remodeling, brokers and business owners say. 
 Perhaps the most important part of a lease deals with what happens once a tenant decides to leave. ''At the same time you're looking to get into a space, you should also be considering your exit strategy,'' said Benjamin Friedland, a commercial broker at CB Richard Ellis.
 Brokers advise small-business owners, especially those who expect rapid growth, to avoid leases longer than five years, and to push for subleasing rights.
 Hiring a real estate lawyer and a broker provide help during negotiations, entrepreneurs said, but finding an impartial broker is crucial. 
 Real estate agencies that represent only tenants have flourished over the last decade, partly because of accusations that firms that also represent buildings might not stand up to landlords. While a broker's commission, typically 20 percent to 30 percent of average annual rent, always comes out of the landlord's pocket, some argue that a broker who serves only tenants has more incentive to protect tenant interests.
 A broker's loyalty should be especially questioned if he is representing both sides of the same deal, says Janet Portman, an author of ''Negotiate the Best Lease for Your Business.''
 The owners of Archivas Inc., a three-year-old maker of storage software, learned about conflict of interest the hard way. Shortly after moving into an expensive office building in Waltham, Mass., Archivas began suffering power shortages. With a laboratory full of large computers, Archivas needed more electricity for equipment and cooling than the building could provide. 
 ''We daily ran into problems of overheating and dying nodes because the building didn't allocate enough power,'' said Scott Dussault, the chief financial officer, who joined the company after it had moved in. Part of the problem, he said, is that Archivas had used the building's broker instead of hiring its own. 
 To make matters worse, when the lease was running out and Archivas started looking for new premises, the landlord's broker tried to persuade Mr. Dussault to expand in the same building. In the end, Mr. Dussault hired T3 Advisors, a Boston-based agency that represents only tenants.
 It is not enough to rely on a competent broker, however, Mr. Dussault said. Entrepreneurs know their business best, and should not only verify claims made by the landlord, but also make sure the space will meet all their needs. 
 Mr. Dussault, for example, paid a contractor to measure power capacity before moving Archivas into its current headquarters. 
 Mr. Webb said he thought he had landed a suitable space for ID Society this year. But after almost making an offer, he discovered that the building had a curfew of 8 p.m. on weekdays and is closed on weekends. 
 ''That was a deal breaker,'' Mr. Webb said, explaining that ID Society employees sometimes work nights to meet deadlines. 
 Fortunately for his employees, ID Society will not be moving again after all. Mr. Webb just signed on for more offices in the company's current Chelsea building, doubling the company's space to 8,000 square feet.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Webb, co-founder and president of ID Society, has moved the Manhattan-based company four times in the last eight years. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (84%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CONTUSIONS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); RETAILERS (65%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing; Small Business; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: Dalia Fahmy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



526 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: $50 Haircuts in New York? Sure

BYLINE: By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
MORE than a dozen women a month visit Ted Gibson's salon in the Flatiron district to have their hair cut by the well-known stylist, titillated to have the same hands work on them that styled Angelina Jolie's and Anne Hathaway's dos -- and happy to pay $950 for the privilege. 
 Many more New York women are willing to pay $100 to $300 for a cut, and some even consider it a bargain simply because they are not paying the equivalent of a New York-to-Tokyo nonstop flight. 
Like having the right address, shoes, bag and dress, sporting a high-price haircut is one more way women can flaunt their wealth and ensure their place among the social elite. But for some New York women who don't feel compelled to match the price of their shaggy bob to their Balenciaga bag, the rising cost for a cut and blow-dry is starting to hurt. 
 "I think it is obscene, these prices," said Barbara Barrie, an actress, who gave up going to the Kenneth Salon in the Waldorf-Astoria two years ago when the cost became more than she wanted to spend.
 "I used to go to a guy that is now up to $250 a haircut,'' she said. ''I long ago stopped going there. It is New York at its worst. I will never pay $100 or $250 for a haircut. I have better things to do with my money."
 New York is among the highest-priced places in the country for haircuts, primarily because so many women will forgo lunch and even dinner just to be able to afford a high-end salon. Rising rents also drive up prices, salon owners said.
 But nationwide, too, the prices of a woman's shampoo, cut and blow-dry have been rising for 10 years, according to a study by the Council for Community and Economic Research, an organization in Arlington, Va., that produces an annual cost-of-living index.
 The national average is $28.50, up from $19.95 in 1996. But in New York, the average price is $55, with other urban areas not far behind: San Francisco, $53; Washington, $44.40; and Los Angeles, $43.40.
 There are, of course, bargains to be found. Paul D. Finkelstein, chairman and chief executive of Regis Corporation, which owns 11,500 salons including brands like Supercuts, Jean Louis David, Vidal Sassoon and Sassoon Studio, said in an e-mail message that his company's average price for a haircut is less than $20 in more than 165 million transactions annually. 
 Yet, even as many Manhattan women cringe as prices at their longtime salons rise, they are loath to move on. Switching stylists can be an emotional experience, akin to a breakup. And just as in romance, a clean break is not always easy. 
 Merle Rubine, an adjunct professor of media and film studies and a former network television producer, said she doesn't want to leave her longtime stylist at Vidal Sassoon. But as the price of her partial highlights has climbed to $190, she has been freer about expressing her unhappiness.
 ''My stylist feels terrible,'' Ms. Rubine said. ''I feel terrible. Everyone feels terrible. Does that mean that he's going to open his own place and do a partial for $50? Probably not.'' So her solution is to live with longer hair, and take longer between appointments.
 Shira-Lee Shalit, a film director and teacher, finally decided to seek a new stylist when the price of a cut at her longtime salon rose to hundreds of dollars and a regular blow-dry was $75. 
 She found an alternative in her own West Side neighborhood, Sam & Chris, on Broadway between 77th and 78th Streets, which charges $35 for a blow-dry -- inexpensive enough that she can now schedule one every 10 days. But many women approach a new salon with trepidation, said Sam Ghazali, the owner of Sam & Chris. 
 ''Usually when a client wants to move from a high-end to a medium-end salon, they want to know someone who has been happy,'' said Mr. Ghazali, who charges $50 for a cut and $100 for a partial highlight.
 He said salons like his walk a fine line. ''You don't want to be a cheap-priced salon, because that will create fear in their heart,'' said Mr. Ghazali, who is also a stylist. ''But if you are too high they will say, why do I want to pay that?''
 Some savvy women have found a way to have their Ted Gibson cut and save money, too. On Mondays, hairdressers-in-training there cut for $55. 
 ''Some people can't afford the luxury of spending a lot of money on a haircut, but still want to get great service, great cut and color and be treated like a celebrity,'' Mr. Gibson said. ''Women want to be connected to the idea of our salon, but maybe not by a $950 cut.''
 Bumble and Bumble has a Model Project program, offering student cuts for ''suitable heads of hair.'' The cost? Free. 
 ''The first time I went I got an awesome haircut,'' said Vicky Lee, 26, a financial analyst at a bank. But, she said: ''I had to wait for two hours and do a call-back. I had to take a half day from work.'' Still, she was pleased enough to search for other bargain cuts and found them at Matrix salon.
 Her roommate, Nancy Liu, has meanwhile taken to scouring craigslist.com for free cuts. That took her to student appointments at the Oscar Bond Salon and Aveda. 
 ''Now I'm a little spoiled,'' Ms. Liu said, saying it almost hurts when she does have to pay.
 Of course, the one sure way to save money on haircuts is to stop getting them.
 ''My last haircut really set me back,'' said an arts writer who now prefers to save the $100 and just wear her long dark hair loose or in a ponytail.
 ''If I thought the great haircut was such a difference, I think I would do something with my hair,'' she said. ''But I voted with my feet. I voted myself out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BARGAIN BEAUTY -- At Sam & Chris on the Upper West Side, Sam Ghazali gives haircuts for $50, far cheaper than many upscale salons in Manhattan. (Photo by Tina Fineberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAIR STYLING SERVICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); COST OF LIVING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Apologies; Beauty Salons; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: REGIS CORP (62%)

TICKER: RGS (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812112 BEAUTY SALONS (62%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (62%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (57%); ANNE HATHAWAY (57%); PAUL D FINKELSTEIN (50%) Stephanie Rosenbloom; Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



527 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Income Soars On Wall St., Widening Gap

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
In Manhattan's boom-or-bust financial businesses, the good times are rolling with no end in sight.
 The average weekly pay for finance jobs in Manhattan was about $8,300 in the first quarter of 2006, up more than $3,000 per week in just three years, new federal data show. And with another year's bounty from Wall Street about to be paid out in annual bonuses, that number is expected to jump again.
 The 280,000 workers in the finance industry collect more than half of all the wages paid in Manhattan, although they hold fewer than one of every six jobs in the borough. The pay gap between them and the 1.5 million other workers in Manhattan continues to widen, causing some economists to worry about the city's growing dependence on their extraordinary incomes. 
 Despite their recent success, the financial companies that have long formed the economic engine of New York City have not created many more jobs. More of the job growth in the city is occurring in lower-paying service jobs in restaurants, stores and home health care, but the pay for those jobs has been lagging, said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 ''We're not seeing jobs being created to any great degree, but we are seeing significant increases in salaries,'' said Mr. Dolfman, who published a study this week on how Manhattan's economy has changed since Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Those high salaries have been contributing to job growth, but they are not translating into many jobs in highly paid areas, he explained. Pay has been rising at a healthy rate in professional areas like law and engineering, but is showing nowhere close to the gains in the finance industry. 
 For all of the 1.8 million jobs in Manhattan, the average weekly salary in the first quarter of this year was slightly more than $2,500, a rise of about 35 percent from the first quarter of 2003, the federal data show. But the raises are not spread evenly across Manhattan's job market, economists said.
 The average is skewed by the large number of high-paying jobs at investment banks, brokerage firms and hedge funds, they said. They also cautioned that much of the pay on Wall Street is doled out in the first quarter in the form of annual bonuses, so average weekly salaries are lower during the rest of the year.
 Still, the figures illustrate how far ahead financial workers are. For example, at Merrill Lynch, the biggest brokerage firm, the expenses so far this year for employee pay and benefits are up about 25 percent, a company spokesman said.
 At Goldman Sachs, the large investment bank, the increase has been even larger: The firm's compensation expenses so far this year amount to more than $500,000, on average, for each of its 25,647 employees, from young secretaries to senior executives.
 The rising pay in the financial industry ''is certainly good news in the short run for state tax collections and city tax collections,'' said James A. Parrott, chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute. ''But it doesn't do anything about the underlying challenge of trying to make the city less dependent on Wall Street.''
 Reducing that dependence has been a goal of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration, but ''that's difficult when you have a sector like the finance sector, which throws off so much compensation,'' Mr. Parrott said. He added, ''If the city was really serious about diversifying the economy, it would focus more on how they could create middle-income jobs or better-paying jobs at the lower end of the job market.''
 Most of the workers at those levels are struggling to obtain raises that keep pace with inflation, he said.
 Mr. Dolfman, whose report is included in the bureau's Monthly Labor Review, said one negative consequence of the unequal distribution of income gains is that ''the middle class is being squeezed out of the city because of the tremendous purchasing power of the people in the global sectors of the economy.''
 Joshua J. Sirefman, interim president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said that city officials have had success in building up other areas of the local economy, like tourism and health care, but that some of those gains have been in other boroughs. Wall Street is ''the single largest engine for the city, but it's not the only one,'' he said.
 ''Remember that this is a very cyclical industry,'' Mr. Sirefman said. ''We need to capture their growth when it happens and not be held hostage to it when it declines.''
 Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, agreed that there were signs of growth in other areas, but said they had been overshadowed by the gains on Wall Street.
 ''In terms of dollars, you have this 400-pound gorilla, and it just dominates,'' Mr. Bram said. ''When you look at finance, it just goes off the charts.''
 Health services, which has been one of faster-growing job categories in the city in the past year, is ''a low-paying industry compared to finance, but I think of that as a big part of the middle class of New York,'' Mr. Bram said.
 Indeed, the health care industry looks like Wall Street in reverse: Its share of the jobs in Manhattan has been growing, but its share of wages has been shrinking. 
 In the first quarter of 2006, health care and social services accounted for 11.3 percent of the borough's jobs, but just 4 percent of the pay, the federal data show. The average weekly pay for health care jobs was $903 in the first quarter, an increase of $49 a week in the last two years.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Wage Boom in Manhattan''The average weekly pay in Manhattan has more than doubled since 1990 for most key sectors, but the increase has largely been driven by a surge in salaries for those on Wall Street. Finance and insurance jobs make up more than half of all wages in Manhattan while making up just 16 percent of the jobs.Finance, insuranceAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- $1,417Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- $8,323Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 21%Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 16%Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 35%Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 52%Professional, scientific, technicalAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 943Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 2,021Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 13Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 15Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 14Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 12Health care, social assistanceAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 545Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 903Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 8Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 11Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 5Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 4Retail tradeAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 489Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 803Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 7Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 8Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 4Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 2Accommodation, food servicesAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 320Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 594Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 6Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 8Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 2Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 2Educational servicesAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 471Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 997Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 3Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 4Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 2Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 2ManufacturingAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 524Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 1,349Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 7Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 2Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 4Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 1ConstructionAverage weekly wage, first quarter: 1990 -- 843Average weekly wage, first quarter: 2006 -- 1,387Percent of all employment: 1990 -- 2Percent of all employment: 2006 -- 2Percent of all wages: 1990 -- 2Percent of all wages: 2006 -- 1(Source by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (84%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Economic Conditions and Trends; Stocks and Bonds; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



528 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: A Weather Eye on the Balloons and the Wind 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Diane Cardwell, Kate Hammer and Emily Vasquez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Seven pole-mounted anemometers will transmit minute-by-minute wind measurements to handheld computers. Police and emergency management officials will relay the data to balloon navigators. Aerodynamics engineers and a liaison from the National Weather Service will advise the incident commander, a three-star police chief.
 These are among the new measures in place as the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade marches for the 80th time today, amid preparations worthy of a large-scale military operation.
But the precautions may not be enough to keep the giant balloons aloft. 
 A strong northeaster climbed up the East Coast yesterday, driving a wall of rain and wind before it, with gusts expected at just about the speeds that parade organizers fear the most. As bleak as the weather are the memories: of 1997, when a Cat in the Hat balloon crashed into a lamppost, injuring four people and leaving one of them in a coma, and last year, when an M & M balloon sent the head of a street lamp crashing onto a woman in a wheelchair and her 11-year-old sister.
 The poor weather and heightened oversight could ground some or all of the 13 big balloons -- 1 fewer than last year -- that are set to fly today, starting at 9 a.m. In the best case, they could be flown so low as to practically be floats. In the worst case, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned, the hapless helium-filled creatures could be pulled onto side streets and summarily deflated. 
 ''First and foremost, we will make sure that we worry about safety before anything else,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said, ''We're very well prepared to guard against any eventuality, as far as the balloons are concerned.''
 The mayor said that the parade has attractions beyond the giant balloons, including 35 other balloons and a float carrying Barry Manilow, the singer.
 As the 13 giant balloons -- including a new Pikachu and Flying Ace Snoopy, past parade favorites that have been redesigned for this year -- were inflated yesterday afternoon and evening around the American Museum of Natural History, some parade volunteers admitted to anxiety.
 ''If we can't fly the balloons, sure we'll be disappointed,'' said Kathryn Kramer, 44, a Macy's employee from Yardley, Pa., who will be the pilot for Flying Ace Snoopy.
 Ms. Kramer, who has handled balloons in every parade since 1985, described backup plans that could seem anticlimactic to spectators expecting towering cartoon figures: Flight teams would simply ''march and wave'' to the crowds. 
 Guidelines adopted in 1998 prohibit the giant balloons from being flown if sustained winds exceed 23 miles per hour or if gusts exceed 34 m.p.h. Michael E. Wyllie, the meteorologist in charge of the weather service's forecasting office in Upton, N.Y., projected sustained winds of 20 to 25 m.p.h. and gusts of 30 to 35 m.p.h. this morning.
 ''We're probably going to be looking at limiting some of the larger balloons, and possibly not allowing them to be flown at all,'' said Mr. Wyllie, who has talked with the city about the parade. 
 A Macy's spokeswoman, Elina Kazan, acknowledged that the outlook was grim. 
 ''The forecast is quite disappointing,'' she said yesterday, ''but we are still hopeful and we are still inflating our balloons, because the call to fly or not fly the balloons will not be made until the morning.''
 In the past, the decision to fly the balloons was made just before the 9 a.m. start of the parade, based on wind measurements taken at a weather station in Central Park. Along the parade route, workers used handheld anemometers -- instruments that measure wind speed and direction -- to make decisions about whether to fly the balloons at lower heights because of sudden gusts.
 The wind measurements this year will be much more systematic. Anemometers will be mounted on poles along Central Park West at 77th, 72nd and 59th Streets and along Broadway at 51st, 46th, 42nd and 34th Streets. Each instrument will be monitored by a police officer and a representative of the Office of Emergency Management using a portable computer.
 As each of the 13 big balloons approaches the intersections, the police officer will talk with the pilot who walks ahead of the balloon, directing a flight team of 12 to 14 members and the 50 to 70 handlers who carry the balloon's tethers. The officer will alert the pilot about wind conditions, which can vary even from block to block, based on the height and layout of surrounding buildings. As in past years, a police officer will also march with each balloon. 
 After the 1997 accident, a 12-member panel appointed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani recommended restrictions on the operation and size of the balloons, improved training of the volunteer balloon crews and new maximum wind speeds. 
 Two months ago, a five-member task force appointed by Mr. Bloomberg to review last year's accident found that the M & M balloon was traveling in an area significantly narrower than Macy's guidelines allowed before its ropes got caught on a streetlight near Times Square.
 The flight passageway or ''envelope'' -- the width of the route free of obstructions -- was supposed to be at least 62 feet from curb to curb, according to the report. In fact, however, the passageway as measured just north of the accident was 39 feet, because of obstructions. The streetlight, which did not extend over the curb line, stood just outside this 39-foot passageway. 
 The task force directed that the calculations for how high the balloons can be flown be based on an assumption of a maximum passageway of 56 feet, instead of 62. Each balloon has its own guidelines for how high it should be flown, but the narrower envelope means that all balloons will be flown slightly lower than in the past.
 The task force also recommended that calculations of the envelope take into account obstructions along the route and not simply be measured from curb to curb. It also urged improvements in communication, wind measurements and preparations. 
 Shannon D. Chandler, 45, a chaperon accompanying three students from Valley, Ala., who are part of the Macy's Great American Marching Band, a contingent of more than 200 high school musicians from around the country, said yesterday he was nervous about what would happen to the balloons. ''We're worried we won't get to see them,'' he said.
 The Police Department's chief of patrol, Chief Nicholas Estavillo, a 38-year veteran who has overseen police deployment at the parade since 2002, will decide just before 9 a.m. whether to set the balloons aloft. He said he was aware of how disappointed his grandchildren and millions of spectators would be if the balloons were grounded.
 ''It would distress me to no end, absolutely,'' he said last night. ''Putting that aside, we have to deal with the reality of the conditions and the concerns about safety.''
 The Macy's parade began in 1924, and the giant balloons made their debut in 1927. The parade was not held from 1942 to 1944.


GRAPHIC: Photo: As Garfield hovered behind, a parade inflation team worked on another balloon yesterday. The 13 big balloons in the Macy's parade will be flown lower than last year. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 (Photo by Keith Bedford/Reuters)(pg. B9)Chart: ''Aiming for a Safer Parade''With strong wind in the forecast, today's Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade may look different from past parades. New safety guidelines -- including a narrower pathway for balloons, more wind monitoring and a policy to bring balloons lower in high winds -- were put in place after two spectators were injured last year when a tether pulled off a light fixture, which crashed to the ground.The width of the envelope, or flight passageway, in which the giant balloons are allowed to operate will be reduced to 56 feet from 62.Tethers will be shortened in locations where winds are high, bringing balloons closer and closer to the ground with higher winds. When sustained winds are above 23 miles per hour or gusts are above 34 miles per hour, balloons are to be grounded.Street lamps and other obstructions will be removed from within the ''envelope.''(pg. B9)Map of Manhattan highlighting the parade route. (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); THANKSGIVING (76%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (73%); HISTORY (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) Thanksgiving Day; Parades; Weather; Wind

ORGANIZATION: Macy's

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



529 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Armed With Internet Bargains, Travelers Battle High Airfares 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY; Reporting was contributed by Cindy Chang in Los Angeles, Nick Bunkley in Detroit, Brenda Goodman in Atlanta and Cassi Feldman in New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Air travelers, who have endured full flights and a 15 percent increase in ticket prices this year, are exacting revenge with aggressive searches for deals that analysts say are beginning to force down prices. 
 Airlines use powerful computers to figure out just how much passengers are likely to pay for any given flight at various times of the day. For the last year or so, they have been able to readily increase fares, in part because of the strong economy. Planes have been packed lately, too, which gives the industry more power to raise prices.
But a recent drop in fares suggests that many travelers have had enough. They are balking at paying the higher prices and are scouring the Internet more to find cheaper fares.
 That may be a small comfort to the 25 million people packed into full planes to join families for Thanksgiving this season. But it is a sign that the cost, if not the frustration, of flying may be easing. 
 None of this is good news for the airlines, of course, which always struggle to turn a profit. Airlines have said for some time that Internet shopping has made it harder for them to raise fares. Travelers have never had much sympathy for the industry's financial plight and they often delight in finding new tricks to discover low fares.
 Acacia Newlon-Yafai, a 20-year-old student at the University of California, Los Angeles, is one of them. She searches Web sites like cheaptickets.com for low fares, signs up at airline sites to receive fare-sale alerts by e-mail message and travels only when the price is right.
 A month ago, a Southwest Airlines service called Ding sent her an e-mail message about a $128 round-trip fare to San Jose, where her family lives, and her holiday plans were set. ''If you look a while, you can figure it out,'' Ms. Newlon-Yafai said. ''If you want to fly two weeks in advance, you can't do that.''
 Such hard-nosed shopping is on the rise. About 25 percent of air travelers consult online newsletters and other sources of special deals before buying, up from 17 percent last year, according to Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. And 17 percent of travelers use Web sites like kayak.com, itasoftware.com or sidestep.com, which scour other Internet sites for travel deals. 
 ''Consumers have access to more and more information,'' Mr. Harteveldt said. ''It's exactly what airlines don't want consumers to have.''
 In the long term, the sharp fare increases this year will probably be an anomaly. The 15 percent rise in fares, after all, resulted in large part from a sharp contraction of airline fleets brought on by bankruptcies and a drop in air travel after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. In coming years, the growth of Internet fare shopping, and the expansion of low-cost airlines will most likely help moderate price increases.
 Southwest Airlines, for example, acquired 36 additional Boeing 737s this year and is expected to acquire 37 next year, growing as some traditional airlines have shrunk. 
 ''We don't have enough aircraft,'' said Gary C. Kelly, chief executive of Southwest, the biggest low-cost carrier. 
 Andry Ramandraivonona, an investment banker who lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, booked flights to Boston for himself, his wife and their two small children two weeks ago, using itasoftware .com. He paid $100 round trip for each.
 The family would like to go home to Paris for Christmas, but was put off by the $1,700-a-person cost. ''It's a bit prohibitive,'' Mr. Ramandraivonona said. They may delay the trip or make the trip sooner. 
 Leisure fares, those bought far in advance with restrictions, averaged $90 one-way last week on domestic routes, 9 percent lower than a year earlier and the 10th consecutive week of decline for leisure prices, according to Harrell Associates, a travel consulting firm in New York.
 Business fares, which are typically booked at the last minute and carry few restrictions, averaged $479 one-way last week on domestic routes, 8 percent higher than a year earlier. But the rate of increase has slowed markedly from spring and summer when business fares were rising by 20 percent or more over the same periods a year ago.
 While the tide is shifting toward consumers on prices, they should probably give up hope of counting on an empty seat next to them when they fly. The number of planes in the fleets of airlines in the United States is growing slowly. And a reason consumers are able to find more deals online is that airlines are using such systems to fill seats that might go vacant. After all, any revenue they can bring in for a seat is better than nothing. 
 Industry analysts said that flights could very well average close to 80 percent full for years to come, which means that those on popular routes at convenient times are typically 100 percent full.
 One thing could, however, send fares back up sharply, at least temporarily. US Airways offered last week to buy Delta Air Lines, which is operating in bankruptcy, for about $8 billion. US Airways has said it will reduce the carrier's combined fleets by about 10 percent if the deal goes through.
 Taking 80 or so big jetliners out of service would allow the combined airline -- and others -- to raise fares because there would be less competition in some markets. Delta is opposing the offer and wants to remain independent. 
 Higher fares appear to have affected many people's travel plans this year. Many more bought tickets to fly on Thanksgiving Day, arriving at family gatherings a little later but at lower cost, according to Sabre, which operates a vast computer reservation system. And skipping grandma's house altogether was also more popular, as Las Vegas rose to the No. 3 travel destination over the holiday, from No. 8 last year, Sabre said.
 When airlines put their fare information online years ago, their main goal was to cut out traditional travel agents to save the commissions they paid them. But many airlines were surprised to learn how much time consumers were willing to spend shopping for fares.
 Dr. Steve Kronick, an emergency room physician in Ann Arbor, Mich., said he searched Internet sites for weeks this summer to find affordable seats to take his wife and two children to Seattle to see friends this week. They paid $1,400 for four round-trip tickets on Northwest Airlines after Dr. Kronick consulted farecast.com, which tries to tell consumers the best time to buy an airfare.
 ''I don't know how accurate it is,'' Dr. Kronick said, ''but it makes you feel better.''
 George W. Evans, a graduate business student at Emory University in Atlanta, paid $500, about $100 more than last year, for a round-trip flight this week to visit family in Pelham, N.Y. Earlier this year, he worked on a class project about Delta Air Lines and was part of a group of students who presented their work to some Delta executives.
 ''They told us their strategy this year was going to be to raise fares,'' he said. ''I heard it from the horse's mouth. It was right after I bought my tickets. I felt used.''
 Even with the higher fares, of course, the airline industry remains deeply troubled after more than $30 billion of losses in recent years. And airfares, compared with the rising prices of many other goods and services, have remained quite cheap over time. 
 Kiki Morris, who works in the entertainment industry in Los Angeles, paid $500 a month ago for her ticket to New York on JetBlue Airways. She usually pays $100 for a Lincoln Town Car just to get her to the airport in Los Angeles, but this time took a regular taxi, for $50, instead.
 The price to fly one mile on an airliner, about 12 cents on average domestically, has changed little over the last 20 years. And, taking inflation into account, prices have fallen by nearly half.
 ''Airfares are so cheap,'' said Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights. ''A brake job on your car at the dealer is like $500 now. The airlines are just killing each other on these fares.''
 Still, for many, fares are high enough that the ability to travel is limited. ''It made me decide between Thanksgiving and Christmas,'' said Tammy Rowe, 30, a public relations worker in Chicago who flew to Atlanta yesterday to meet family. ''I noticed back in the spring and summer that fares were kind of jacked up.''
 Ramona Collins, 33, of Flushing, N.Y., flew to visit her brother in Arkansas yesterday on Northwest Airlines. Her round-trip ticket cost $402, she said, purchased in mid-October on kayak.com. ''It was probably at least $100 more than last year,'' she said.
 ''It makes me think about not going anywhere for Christmas,'' she said. Normally, she would go to Arkansas to see her parents. 
 She is reconsidering, and added, ''They don't know that yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ryann, left, and Destiny Coleman waited with their parents at Los Angeles International Airport yesterday for a flight to Denver. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Robert Archbold, 7, found his flight to Dallas on the board at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago yesterday and informed his father, Pete Archbold, right. (Photo by Joshua Lott for The New York Times)
Beverly Nevalja, in line with other holiday travelers at Los Angeles International Airport yesterday, found a source of comfort. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 Joanna Kenworthy and Mike Wilcox said goodbye at La Guardia Airport in New York yesterday. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Better News for Thrifty Travelers''Airfares have actually declined for leisure tickets in recent months and the increases in business fares have slowed.Graph tracks year-over-year change in weekly averages for airfares (business and leisure) since January.(Source by Harrell Associates)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); THANKSGIVING (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet; Discount Selling; Bankruptcies; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



530 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Public Colleges as 'Engines of Inequality'

 BODY:
Democrats who ran for Congress this fall made the cost of college a big campaign issue. Now that they've won control of the House and Senate, they can prepare to act swiftly on at least some of the factors that have priced millions of poor and working-class Americans right out of higher education. The obvious first step would be to boost the value of the federal Pell Grant program -- a critical tool in keeping college affordable that the federal government has shamefully ceased to fund at a level that meets the national need. 
 But larger Pell Grants can't solve this crisis alone. Policy changes will also be required in the states, where public universities have been choking off college access and upward mobility for the poor by shifting away from the traditional need-based aid formula to a so-called merit formula that heavily favors affluent students. The resulting drop in the fortunes of even high-performing low-income students -- many of whom no longer attend college at all -- is documented in an eye-opening report released recently by the Education Trust, a nonpartisan foundation devoted to education reform.
 The public universities were founded on the premise that they would provide broad access in exchange for taxpayer subsidies. That compact has been pretty much discarded in the state flagship campuses, which have increasingly come to view themselves as semiprivate colleges that define themselves not by inclusion, but by how many applicants they turn away, and how many of their students perform at the highest levels on the SAT, an index that clearly favors affluent teenagers who attend the best schools and have access to tutors.
 The flagship schools compete for high-income, high-achieving students who would otherwise attend college elsewhere, while overlooking low-income students who are perfectly able to succeed at college but whose options are far more narrow.
 In recent years, aid to students whose families earn over $100,000 has more than quadrupled at the public flagship and research universities. Incredibly, the average institutional grant to students from high-income families is actually larger than the average grant to low- or middle-income families.
 Partly as a result, high-performing students from low-income groups are much less likely to attend college than their high-income counterparts -- and are less likely to ever get four-year degrees if they do attend. 
 These are ominous facts at a time when the college degree has become the basic price of admission to both the middle class and the new global economy. Unless the country reverses this trend, upward mobility through public higher education will pretty much come to a halt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); GIFTED EDUCATION (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%) Colleges and Universities; States (US); Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Education Trust

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



531 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; YANGON JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: A Tiny Window on the U.S., Prized by Those Peering In 

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar 

 BODY:
For a window into how people think in this closed and cloistered Asian society, consider these eclectic interests in American culture, found on the bulletin board and library shelves at the American Center here. 
 ''The Devil Wears Prada'' is popular, but Edith Wharton's ''Age of Innocence'' has fans. The Paris Review is in demand, but so are Vogue, Vanity Fair and Architectural Digest.
 The movie ''Brokeback Mountain'' is must viewing. ''I would like to see the movie 'Brokeback Mountain,' '' wrote one man. ''It is not available here in Burma. P.S. I am not a gay.'' 
 More than 15,000 members come to the American Center to borrow books, see DVDs and study in a modern reading room and computer area equipped with high-speed Internet connections. An auditorium screens Hollywood's latest. (Attendance at ''Brokeback Mountain'' outstripped all others this year.) 
 For a United States worried about its tarnished image in the world, the bustling center is testimony to how an accessible library, seminars and courses in English can burnish America's reputation and comfort those living under autocratic rulers. 
 The center is so cherished in this poor and oppressed nation with a passion for books that attendance far exceeds that at the American library in democratic New Delhi. 
 The junta of Myanmar, formerly Burma, regards the United States as a prime enemy, chiefly because Washington has imposed economic sanctions for nearly a decade. Washington also insists that the government recognize the 1990 election, which was won overwhelmingly by the political party of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader, even though she was under house arrest. (She remains so.) 
 Still, the government has allowed the American Center to operate. 
 ''We're here to say this country deserves better than it has got,'' said Todd Pierce, the public affairs officer at the American Embassy who runs the center. ''This country is a classic closed society where the tea shops and the role of rumor are very large. So this is a place that says, 'Let's throw it open.' '' 
 The requests come thick and fast. Someone wanted books by the French philosopher Michel Foucault. (''On order,'' Mr. Pierce replied via the bulletin board.) Someone else wanted the collected poetry of John Berryman. Also on its way, Mr. Pierce replied. There were requests for books on starting online businesses. And more comics, please. 
 Mr. Pierce has revamped the interior of the whitewashed villa (formerly the North Korean Embassy) with fresh paint; handsome, made-in-America reading lamps; and tables and chairs that are often full, leaving readers to spill onto the floor. 
 In addition to the information services, Mr. Pierce has introduced lighter touches to draw the crowds. The center had an open house with door prizes for the 800 people who turned up. An ex-political prisoner won a copy of a chick-lit novel, ''The Princess Diaries,'' by Meg Cabot. 
 All of this has led to a near doubling of the membership, to 15,899, from about 8,000 in July last year. 
 Some Burmese say they are reluctant to visit the center, fearing persecution by the government, which operates a pervasive intelligence network. On some days, rumors circulate that the center is surrounded by the military. When that happens, attendance often drops just a bit, Mr. Pierce said. 
 ''If someone is not comfortable in coming, I respect that,'' he said. ''The vast majority of people who come are not political. Some government people come -- they have to keep up with Vogue and W, too.'' 
 On a nearby street corner, tea shops have sprung up where people who have been reading or studying can relax, gossip and eat. Mr. Pierce says he regards it as the ''campus.'' 
 At midday recently, a young man carried a thick book from the library -- ''Nongovernmental Organizations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights'' -- while he nursed a cup of tea. Was he nervous about coming to the center? ''It's my right to have human rights,'' he said. 
 Despite the government's distaste for foreign influence, the American Center is not the only place for Burmese to find things out. There is the British Council, a less sprightly equivalent, and various news media outlets. 
 Just after sunrise people can be seen walking around with transistor radios glued to their ears listening to shortwave broadcasts in Burmese by the British Broadcasting Corporation, the Voice of America and Radio Free Asia. 
 More than two-thirds of all radio listeners said they tuned to the BBC World Service, according to a recent BBC survey. 
 The government also allows American and European popular culture of different sorts -- often, it seems, as a diversion from declining living standards. 
 Ultra-law-and-order movies like ''Judge Dredd,'' with Sylvester Stallone, are a favorite on the television sets of tea shops, where Burmese dawdle over small cups of sweetened, milky tea. 
 At 2:30 a.m. one recent day, live screenings of two European soccer games -- Arsenal vs. CSKA Moscow and Manchester United vs. FC Copenhagen -- captivated an audience at a makeshift cinema of young men dressed in traditional sarongs, Buddhist monks in ruby-hued robes, and even women. 
 As vibrant as the American Center is, it is actually a relic, one of the last examples of what used to be a common and important tool in Washington's public diplomacy. After the cold war ended, Washington closed almost all the libraries it had set up to project the ideals of the United States as a welcoming democratic nation. 
 At downtown city addresses in countries prominent and obscure, the libraries provided books, information on scholarships, and sometimes just quiet space to do homework or read a newspaper. 
 With the terrorism threat now, the libraries, if they exist at all, are usually hidden behind the walls of fortresslike American embassies that many local people feel are too forbidding to penetrate. 
 Even in India, the State Department has ordered the free-standing library to move, on the ground that it does not have enough security. 
 Here in Myanmar, the open and inviting nature of the American Center, the availability of tea just across the way and, of course, the wealth of information seem to be truly appreciated. 
 Just consider this note among the 40 or so on the bulletin board: ''Every moment of my time spending in this library is paradise.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Burmese students gather at a tea shop near the American Center in Yangon, where a rare and varied collection of American culture is readily available. Even officials of the repressive government stop by. (Photo by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); FILM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POETRY (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); HOUSE ARREST (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: United States Foreign Service

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (54%) Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MYANMAR (96%); FRANCE (90%); INDIA (79%) Myanmar; Yangon (Myanmar)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



532 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Venture Struggles to Navigate European Disdain

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS Nov. 22 

 BODY:
For years, Olivier Piou angled for a merger with his No. 1 rival. Mr. Piou was chief executive of Axalto, a French company that was the world leader in smart cards, the chip-embedded cards used for purposes like banking, phone calls or identification.
 There were occasional chats with Alex Mandl, the chief executive of his French rival, Gemplus International, but nothing happened.
Then the Texas Pacific Group moved into the fold of Gemplus late in 2000. It took a while, but by June this year, the two rivals had merged to form Gemalto, with Mr. Piou its chief.
 Navigating the Gallic disdain for radical change and bare-knuckled moneymaking, Texas Pacific is demonstrating how it and other private equity financiers, in the face of resentment they stir up in Europe, have become catalysts in reshaping business in France and the rest of the Continent. That success, in turn, is stoking more criticism. On Nov. 13, French regulators held discussions with private equity executives, including Jacques Garaialde, who runs the Paris office of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, about the possibility of false takeover rumors. 
 A few days earlier, the Financial Services Authority in Britain issued its first detailed study on private equity, including the high levels of leverage, the danger of insider trading and the risks of conflicts of interest. German politicians in the past have articulated criticism of investments by private equity firms, in one instance calling them ''locusts.'' 
 Though its market may be one of the most controlled in Europe, France has emerged as the third-most-active country for private equity deals. The French trail only Britain and the United States in the private equity tables, though they are far behind the Americans -- who, as of Wednesday, had 1,038 buyouts worth a total of $352.96 billion so far this year, up from $130.21 billion in all of 2005. 
 France, with 227 deals worth $22.1 billion year to date, was behind Britain, with 226 deals worth $85.3 billion over the same period, according to Thomson Financial. 
 Deals like Gemalto's are increasing the European visibility of private equity firms, particularly in France, where government officials seem to intervene regularly in business decisions, and union leaders are often in positions to bind the hands of executives.
 The private equity firms, though, are demonstrating their skill in nudging executives and other staff members off the payrolls, establishing ties with government officials and calling on local experts to help negotiate complex labor rules
 As if to drive the point home, Texas Pacific announced last month that it had teamed up with AXA Private Equity of France to acquire a majority stake in the telecommunications company TDF, a deal valuing TDF at nearly $6.5 billion.
 ''The private equity model is certainly gaining greater acceptance on the Continent,'' said Hugh Langmuir, a partner at a British equity fund, Cinven. ''We have a good track record; we are able to navigate through the challenges.''
 After initial struggles, private equity firms are way up on the learning curve. At the heart of this is the need seen by European executives and market economists to squeeze inefficiency out of national economies and companies -- eliminating duplication by closing factories, concentrating research and development in one or a few sites, and streamlining jobs. 
 Lately, big names in leveraged buyouts have been aggressively expanding their business beyond Britain, until recently the buyout firms' preferred arena. ''The Continental market is strengthening,'' said Julian Longhurst, research director at Incisive Media, a London-based firm that tracks the market. ''Britain's block as a proportion of the whole, though still strong, has slipped from around 50 percent to the 20s.''
 According to the prevailing wisdom, neither Gemplus nor Axalto should probably have ever existed. The French are known for fashion and food, content to leave products like microprocessors to Asian or American companies -- say, Intel, Hitachi or Motorola. And industrial start-ups have been the domain of the British and the Americans, not the French. 
 Still, in the last few years, both Gemplus and Axalto emerged as world leaders in the programming of microchips that operate in A.T.M.'s, point-of-sale units and the latest generation of passports. In 1999, Gemplus, caught the attention of Texas Pacific, whose executives operated on the assumption that the three-player smart-card industry structure was basically unstable. 
 Unlike most other industries, where a standout company like Intel or Microsoft stood head and shoulders above many of its competitors, the smart-card business was essentially three-sided, with Axalto, Gemplus and another French company, Oberthur Card Systems, all about equal in size.
 Texas Pacific took control of Gemplus and began shaking it up. It fired some senior executives and reduced the overall head count, which had expanded as the company grew at breakneck speed. But the deal proved to be more complex than Texas Pacific executives foresaw.
 There were efforts to turn the French public and government against Texas Pacific by painting it as a dubious front company masking an effort to hijack European technology. A former Gemplus executive accused Texas Pacific in the French press of being a screen for American security interests. 
 Reducing the work force proved to be sticky, given the strong role of an employees' council over such decisions.
 In the end, Texas Pacific quieted the bad publicity by convincing the French government that it had no intention of moving the Gemplus headquarters nor its research and development activities out of France. To steer its way through the layoffs, a human resources consultant was hired to help navigate French labor law.
 ''There are two great myths,'' said Gerard Cortey-Dumont, a consultant who has worked for the companies. ''For the French, that there is no social security in the United States; for the Americans, that you cannot fire people in France. Well, it's costly and it takes time and there are many formalities, but in the end you can do it.'' 
 The merged companies struggled with the costs of bringing their operations together. In the first half of 2006, net profit dropped by almost half, to $34 million on flat revenue around $1 billion. The size of the work force gyrated, from 8,700 when the companies first combined, down to 4,600 as they laid off workers around the world. Now, that number is way back up, to 11,000. 
 ''For me, it was a clean fit, it was a good fit,'' Mr. Piou of Gemalto said. The combined company will now focus on research and development, employing more than 1,500 engineers, over a tenth of the work force, in that effort. 
 In August, the Government Printing Office in Washington announced that it would adopt Gemalto's electronic passport technology, which can recognize facial features and fingerprints. Neither party would specify the value of the deal, but Gemalto's technology will start being installed in American passports next year. In 2005, more than 10 million passports were produced. 
 Despite all this, Gemalto's share price has largely fallen since Jan. 1, continuing to slide even after the merger in June, though some large brokerage firms have recently begun to re-evaluate the shares. Merrill Lynch has upgraded Gemalto to neutral from sell, and UBS Securities to buy from neutral.
 In another recent buyout, the largest cable television network in France, Noos-UPC, may eliminate 860 of 1,300 employees to better compete with other forms of television, including digital terrestrial systems. Noos-UPC was taken over earlier in the year by Cinven with help from Altice One, a cable operator based in Luxembourg. 
 As in the case of Gemalto, the existing management team took the action rather than managers installed by the equity fund.
 ''Management has a powerful say in the way a company is sold,'' Mr. Langmuir of Cinven said. ''Management can influence, in an informal beauty contest, which of several funds fits better, brings a better economic package and adds value to the company.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Olivier Piou, formerly of Axalto, is chief of the merged company. (Photo by A. DeRoll/MaxPPP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); MERGERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); SMART CARDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); ETHICS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (65%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Insider Trading; Labor; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: TPG CAPITAL LP (92%); GEMALTO NV (91%); KKR & CO LP (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); AXA PRIVATE EQUITY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%) Axalto Holding; Gemplus ; Texas Pacific Group; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co

TICKER: GTO (PAR) (91%); KKR (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (91%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (61%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (61%)

PERSON: John Tagliabue; Jacques Garaialde

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (56%) France; Europe; Germany; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



533 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Civilian Death Toll Reaches New High in Iraq, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sahar Nageeb contributed reporting from Amman, Jordan, Qais Mizher from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Diyala Province.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
More Iraqi civilians were killed in October than in any other month since the American invasion in 2003, a report released by the United Nations on Wednesday said, a rise that underscored the growing cost of Iraq's deepening sectarian war.
 According to the report, 3,709 Iraqis were killed in October, up slightly from the previous high in July, and an increase of about 11 percent from the number in September.
The figures, which include totals from the Baghdad morgue and hospitals and morgues across the country, have become a central barometer of the war here and a gauge of the progress of the American military as it tries to bring stability to this exhausted country.
 A dangerous trend has surfaced: Sixty-five percent of all deaths in Baghdad were categorized as unidentified corpses, the signature of militias, who kidnap, kill and throw away bodies at a rate that now outstrips the slaughter inflicted by suicide bombers. The report did not offer a breakdown by sect, and it is impossible to tell who is dying in greater numbers. 
 Indeed, the 52 bodies found by the authorities on Wednesday were far more than the 16 Iraqis reported killed in Baghdad and Baquba, a violent city north of the capital.
 ''We have a situation in which impunity prevails,'' said Gianni Magazzeni, chief of the United Nations' Human Rights Office in Baghdad, which compiled the report. ''It's critically important for the government to ensure that justice is done.''
 Even daily life spoke of war and a society in collapse. The report painted a portrait of social calamity that included 100,000 Iraqis a month fleeing to Syria and Jordan, and schools in some of the most violent areas of the country almost completely shut down. Areas that are not mixed -- Iraq's Kurdish north and portions of its Shiite south -- were far safer.
 The figures illustrate in stark percentages just how deeply the killing has sunk into Iraqi society. They had been a point of contention for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, which suppressed them in September after criticizing them as inflated. The American military has also criticized the figures as high, but it does not release statistics of its own. 
 President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice are preparing for meetings next week with Mr. Maliki, in part to discuss the security situation in Iraq. [Page A22.] 
 But the United Nations stands by the count, which tallies unclaimed bodies from Iraq's approximately six morgues and from death certificates -- required for burial and for inheritance procedures. If anything, the numbers are low. Figures from hospitals come from the Ministry of Health, which counts deaths only on the day of the attack. Victims who die a day later are not counted.
 Deaths declined slightly in Baghdad, by 2 percent in September and October, from the total for July and August. The killing picked up in other areas, like Diyala, a mixed province north of Baghdad, and in Balad, a town where sectarian killing exploded briefly in October. The numbers of wounded in Iraq were slightly lower than in the summer.
 After Baghdad, the highest death tolls, in descending order, were registered in Diyala Province, the city of Mosul, Salahuddin Province and, in a very distant fifth place, the city of Kirkuk.
 The cycle of violence here is one that American military commanders have made substantial efforts to try to stop. Most recently, they conducted a broad series of sweeps in the capital this summer. But their task has become far more complicated since February, when Shiites began to fight back against attacks by Sunni militants. Now the monthly totals of the dead in Baghdad are running about double what they were in 2005.
 Nearly three-quarters of all the nation's deaths in October occurred in the capital, home to a quarter of the country's population and its political and economic heart.
 That statistic crashed into the life of Sabah, a 41-year-old Shiite, who was returning from lunch with her Sunni husband in northeastern Baghdad in late August, when men in plain clothes standing near a police car approached them at a traffic light. They asked to look at the couple's national identification cards. Sabah's husband's last name is obviously Sunni, and the men grabbed them both in front of a crowd.
 ''They put me in the trunk, in front of all the people,'' said Sabah, her face intense yet distant, experiencing the pain of the memory. ''That scene, I cannot forget it.''
 Last year, a majority of deaths were of Shiites in bombings. Now the dying has shifted, and Sabah's story follows the grim pattern that is typical of most killings these days.
 In the darkness of the trunk, she listened to the sounds outside. The car stopped. She heard joyful shouts from what sounded like a wedding party. It stopped again and hands lifted her out. She was blindfolded, but sensed she had left the city. The air smelled fresh.
 In all she was moved six or seven times, sometimes in the trunk, sometimes lying on the floor of the backseat of a car, blankets and the feet of gunmen on top of her.
 For eight days, she and her husband were held in various places, but most of the time they were in Sadr City, the vast area in northeastern Baghdad that is the stronghold of the Mahdi Army, a Shiite militia. Most of those days they spent in an empty high school, with desks in classrooms and lessons still written on chalkboards. It was summertime and there were no students.
 The United Nations report cited an estimate released this month from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees that nearly half a million Iraqis had become internally displaced since February, and that about 100,000 Iraqis each month were fleeing to Jordan and Syria. The numbers of asylum seekers has also spiked, with a 50 percent increase from January to June, and a doubling from June 2004.
 Several homeless families lived in the school. The women stared at Sabah through an open window. It was hot. She asked for water, but they were afraid to give it to her.
 At another point, she saw through the window a drunken man being beaten. Her captors said they had encouraged neighborhood children to join in to teach the man a lesson.
 The captors never stated their motive, though Sabah believed it was because her husband was a Sunni. His last name, al-Shekhli, is most common in Adhamiya, the Sunni heart of Baghdad. They berated Sabah for marrying a Sunni. They never asked for money.
 ''They hate Sunnis to the core,'' she said, her small body wrapped in black.
 Typical of today's Iraq, militias mingled so closely with the police during Sabah's captivity that by the end, she could no longer distinguish between them. A police car was parked at one site, and her captor bragged that it belonged to him. Before her release, she was transferred to a family whose son worked as a police officer during the day.
 The school that was her prison was largely empty in the mornings, but by late afternoon, ''a party happened,'' she said. ''Policeman during the day, Mahdi Army at night.''
 Militia fighting in central Iraq has become so bad that schools -- officially in session as of Sept. 20 -- have yet to open in some areas, the United Nations report and local officials said. In Diyala, one of the country's most violent provinces, 90 percent of the schools have yet to open, it said, citing the Diyala regional council and the Iraqi Ministry of Education. In Baquba, the region's capital, three teachers and a principal have been killed in the past three weeks, school officials said. One, Khudayer al-Taiye, was killed on his way to school in the Tahrir district. He was defying a warning, distributed through leaflets, that people stay home.
 More than 300 teachers and employees in the Ministry of Education have been killed and 1,158 wounded in 2006 alone, the report said, citing ministry statistics.
 On Sept. 3, after beating her husband for days, and promising many times the couple would be released, Sabah's captors relented. They gave them baths and fresh clothes. They reunited them, but in the moments before they were to be released, they were separated. The men insisted on giving back their car. Sabah's husband walked off with them to get it. She never saw him again.
 She was driven home. He was shot. His death certificate says there were three bullets wounds: one in the back, one in the back of the neck and one in the back of the head. His body was found in a parking area near Sadr City. 
 ''I am so sad they were Iraqis who killed him,'' she said. ''Not foreigners. Not Americans. Iraqis.''
 Sabah counts herself lucky. Her husband's body was found, and she watched it being buried. Many Iraqis, particularly Sunnis, do not have that opportunity. The United Nations report cited a case from September and October in which about 200 bodies were buried in unmarked graves without the families being able to claim them, simply because they were too afraid to collect them. In such cases, families are obliged to bribe cemetery workers, often in Najaf and Karbala, the southern cities where unclaimed bodies are buried, to dig up the remains of their loved ones.
 Corruption is rife throughout the process. Sabah paid 350,000 Iraqi dinars -- about $250 -- to get the police report. A recent amendment to a law allows Iraqis to claim compensation for spouses killed or wounded in terrorist attacks. Sabah qualified for $1,428, but she had to return to Sadr City to fill out extensive paperwork and claim the money. She refused.
 Now she spends her days mostly at home. She does not talk much. She has not moved her husband's hairbrush, his razor or his cigarette lighter from the table in the hallway where he left them. She follows news about the Mahdi Army obsessively. This month, a friend sent her a video that showed the minutes before and after the killing of one of Saddam Hussein's lawyers, allegedly by a Shiite militia leader. She has watched it over and over.
 ''Today there were 35 bodies, that means 35 families,'' she said. ''How many are out there like me?''

Ex-President Defends His Son
 ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates, Nov. 22 (AP) -- Former President George Bush took on Arab critics of his son Tuesday during a testy exchange at a leadership conference.
 ''My son is an honest man,'' Mr. Bush told members of the audience who harshly criticized President Bush. The Persian Gulf used to be safe territory for former President Bush, who brought Arab leaders together in a coalition that drove Saddam Hussein's troops from Kuwait in 1991. But the gratitude was overshadowed at the conference by hostility toward his son.
 ''We do not respect your son,'' a woman in the audience bluntly told him after his speech. ''We do not respect what he's doing all over the world.'' Mr. Bush, 82, appeared stunned as others in the audience whooped and whistled in approval.
 ''This son is not going to back away,'' he said. ''He's not going to change his view because some poll says this or some poll says that, or some heartfelt comments from the lady who feels deeply in her heart about something. You can't be president of the United States and conduct yourself if you're going to cut and run. This is going to work out in Iraq. I understand the anxiety. It's not easy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In August, Sabah and her husband were kidnapped in Baghdad and held for eight days. Their captors released her, but her husband was killed. (Photo by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Sabah and her husband in their wedding picture. ''I am so sad they were Iraqis who killed him,'' she said. ''Not foreigners. Not Americans. Iraqis.'' (Photo by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times)(pg. A22)Chart: ''A Rising Death Toll''Violent deaths among Iraqi civilians, as compiled by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq.Graph tracks violent deaths among Iraqi civilians from March to October. (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); REFUGEES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Kurds; Immigration and Refugees; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Sabrina Tavernise; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



534 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief's Help Enlisted for Trip To Press China 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has enlisted Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, to join an unusual delegation of cabinet members to China next month that will press for changes in Chinese economic policies long criticized by the administration and Congress, officials said Wednesday.
 The trip in mid-December, to be led by Mr. Paulson, a former Goldman Sachs chairman with extensive experience in China, escalates the pressure on the Beijing leadership to crack down on piracy, open up its economy to outside investors and allow the value of the Chinese currency to fluctuate more freely, Treasury officials say.
It also has the effect of putting pressure on the Treasury secretary to get results from the Chinese at a time of mounting pressure from Democrats and Republicans to curb what they view as China's reliance on exports. 
 Congressional leaders have long demanded that China strengthen its currency, the yuan, and take other steps to modernize its economy. European leaders have been waging a parallel campaign. They argue that such actions are needed to reduce China's huge trade imbalances with the West. 
 Because China exports far more than it imports, it has piled up reserves of foreign currencies that are expected to approach $1 trillion in coming months. China owns several hundred million dollars in American-denominated debt and may be eager to use its reserves to purchase American companies, a step that faces resistance in Congress.
 The trip will not be the first time a Federal Reserve chairman and a Treasury chief have met together with their Chinese counterparts. Such sessions have occurred from time to time under a Chinese-American joint economic committee established several years ago. But the sessions are usually on the fringes of larger economic meetings, like a brief meeting last year in China involving Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Alan Greenspan, then chairman of the Federal Reserve, during a larger meeting of 20 leading economic nations.
 What is different this time, government officials say, is that Mr. Bernanke is traveling to China with Mr. Paulson and several other American cabinet secretaries for the express purpose of deepening the Chinese-American dialogue.
 Mr. Bernanke, along with Mr. Paulson, shares responsibility for overseeing the United States economy and the major role that China now plays in it. He is expected to repeat what he and other central bankers have said in recent years: that the huge borrowing from China by the United States to finance its trade imbalance is not sustainable in the long run. Mr. Bernanke, who would not comment on his plans, has in the past urged the Chinese to be more flexible with the yuan and their economy. 
 Mr. Bernanke, however, is not expected to join in any direct pressure applied by the Bush administration, officials said, nor to offer specific policy prescriptions. 
 Most international economics experts say that China can take steps to correct these fund imbalances by deregulating its state-controlled economy, allowing greater imports and foreign investment and introducing incentives for Chinese to consume more and save less.
 Mr. Paulson's trip, and the fact that he is to be accompanied by Mr. Bernanke, who as chairman of the Federal Reserve is supposed to be independent of the administration, is aimed at persuading the Chinese to take these Western demands more seriously. The Treasury's hope is that a broad dialogue on economics, energy, the environment and other issues will move China more than pressure on specific issues.
 ''This is such a high-level delegation that it's going to raise the bar for China, especially on issues of currency, by demonstrating the breadth of our economic interdependence,'' said Michael J. Green, a former director of Asian policy under President Bush.
 ''It's a smart strategy by Paulson, and it's showing the Chinese enormous respect,'' added Mr. Green, who is now a scholar at Georgetown University and the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. But he added, ''By the same token, Paulson is putting enormous pressure on himself to deliver.''
 Another unusual backdrop to the China trip, scheduled for Dec. 12 to 16, is the pressure from Capitol Hill. Bush administration officials say they recognize that in the new Democratic-controlled Congress, anger at China will quickly reach a fever pitch if the Beijing government rebuffs American requests for steps to ease the trade imbalances. 
 Trade was a major issue in the elections as many candidates contended that cheap Chinese exports and unfair economic practices had thrown Americans out of work.
 Leading the criticism of China in Congress is Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who will serve as speaker of the House beginning in January. Since the early 1990s, she has been a vocal critic of China's economic policies and its human rights record. But criticism of the Chinese has not been limited to the Democrats. Many Republicans in Congress have assailed China for its military spending, and the administration says China has fallen short in helping to defuse crises in Iran, North Korea and Sudan. 
 This year, Senators Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, yielded to a request from Mr. Paulson and withdrew a bill that would have threatened China with increased tariffs if it did not let the value of its currency rise in the open markets.
 A higher value for the yuan would make exports to the United States more expensive and imports cheaper, presumably reducing the trade deficit.
 But Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham said they would come back with another form of the legislation in the coming year if China did not respond more positively to the economic pressures from the United States.
 ''Nothing has gotten the Chinese to budge so far,'' Mr. Schumer said in an interview this week. ''Taking such a large delegation is a demonstration of how important this is. The liability is that if Paulson goes with all these people and once again brings back nothing, it's going to turn up the heat in Congress.''
 The Treasury Department has not announced who is going to China, but administration officials say the delegation is to include Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative; Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman; Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez; Health and Human Services Secretary Michael O. Leavitt; and Stephen L. Johnson, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Mr. Paulson won approval from President Bush to lead an interagency group of officials to negotiate with China on matters like the piracy of software, name-brand designer goods and pharmaceuticals, and on steps to allow European and American banks and financial services to sell credit cards and other products to Chinese consumers.
 On the energy front, the Bush administration wants to share technology with China and permit American investment in conservation, energy-saving devices and other technologies. China is also interested in American expertise in cleaning up its air and water, while the United States wants to help China with immunization and disease prevention programs.
 Mr. Paulson gave a lengthy speech on China in September, and on a trip there shortly thereafter warned not to expect any quick responses on American requests. But he also said that he was impatient for at least some signs of progress.
 What the Bush administration can offer China in return, many experts say, is a pledge by Mr. Bush to block protectionist measures in Congress like the one pushed by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham.
 ''The Chinese are very unsettled by the results of the election,'' said Jeffrey A. Bader, a director of Chinese studies at the Brookings Institution. ''They're trying to figure out how much to give to Paulson so Paulson can keep the wolves at bay.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article Thursday about Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.'s enlisting of Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to help persuade China to change its economic policies referred incorrectly to the amount of dollar-denominated American debt held by China. It is several hundred billion dollars, not several hundred million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, has invited the Fed chief, Ben S. Bernanke, on his China trip next month. The two have traveled on economic missions before, here at a Group of 7 meeting in Singapore. (Photo by Wong Maye-E/Associated Press)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%) Currency; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



535 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-24

Iraqi Civilian Death RateIs Highest Since Invasion
More Iraqi civilians were killed in October than in any other month since the American invasion, a United Nations report said, a rise that underscored the growing cost of Iraq's deepening sectarian war. A1

Rebuff Expected for Iran 

The International Atomic Energy Agency is poised to rebuff a request by Iran for technical help with a nuclear reactor that would produce plutonium, diplomats said. A13

Mexico Admits Past Atrocities
President Vicente Fox's government issued a report stating that past Mexican governments murdered and tortured dissidents from the late 1960s through the early 1980s. A24

Australia Seeks 'Dr. Death'
An Australian court issued warrants for the arrest of an American surgeon, charging him with three counts of manslaughter and five counts of inflicting grievous bodily harm, a prosecutor announced. A24

On the Camp David Menu: Iraq
President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will spend part of Thanksgiving at Camp David discussing a meeting next week with Iraq's prime minister. A22

Sharing of Bank Data Is Faulted
A European Union panel concluded that a banking consortium breached rules when it gave the Bush administration access to millions of records of private financial transactions. A22

Quebec Autonomy Proposed
Prime Minister Stephen Harper proposed that the province of Quebec be recognized as a nation within Canada. A11

NATIONAL A26-35

House Speaker to Remain, But His Role Is Shrunken
Defying expectations that he would retire immediately if the Republicans lost their majority, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert is preparing to remain in the House for at least a few more months. A34

Panel Urges Medicaid Changes
A federal advisory panel said long-term care for aging baby boomers threatens to bankrupt Medicaid, and it recommends sweeping changes to rein in costs, including greater use of managed care for the sickest Medicaid recipients. A31

Atlanta Police Kill Woman, 92
Atlanta police officers expected to arrest a man who had illegal drugs when they forced the front door open at a house in one of the city's most crime-ridden neighborhoods. Instead they found a 92-year-old woman holding a revolver. The woman was killed and three investigators were wounded in a shootout. A35

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Psychiatric Drugs for Children
A growing number of children and teenagers in the United States are taking not just a single drug for discrete psychiatric difficulties but combinations of powerful and risky medications to treat a dizzying array of problems. A1

Birth Monitor Falls Short
A device that measures a baby's blood oxygen during labor has failed to meet doctors' hopes that it would lead to fewer Caesarean sections and safer deliveries, a new study has concluded. A32

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Wall Street Income Soars, Prompting Concern in City
The average weekly pay for finance jobs in Manhattan was about $8,300 in the first quarter of 2006, up more than $3,000 per week in just three years, new federal data show. The 280,000 workers in the financial sector collect more than half of all the wages paid in Manhattan, prompting worries about the city's growing dependence on their incomes. B1

Parade Balloons May Not Fly
Poor weather and heightened oversight could ground some or all of the 13 big balloons that are set to fly today in the 80th Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. B1

Neediest Cases B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

Air Fares Under Pressure
Air travelers, who have endured full flights and a 15 percent increase in ticket prices this year, are exacting revenge with aggressive searches for deals that analysts say are beginning to force down prices. A1

Fed Chairman Going to China
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has enlisted Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, to join a delegation of Cabinet members to China next month that will press for changes in Chinese economic policies long criticized by the administration and Congress, officials said. A1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES C12

Steam Train Maury
A former itinerant who started life as Maurice W. Graham and became famous as the Grand Patriarch of the Hobos, he was 89. C12

EDITORIAL A36-37

Editorials: Another killing in Lebanon; keeping Thanksgiving; public colleges as ''engines of inequality''; Verlyn Klinkenborg on things that go bump in the flight.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E13
Crossword E11
TV Listings E15
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); MURDER (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (74%); ARRESTS (74%); TORTURE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (61%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (55%); STEPHEN HARPER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (69%) IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006



536 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: A Smarter Computer To Pick Stock

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
Ray Kurzweil, an inventor and new hedge fund manager, is describing the future of stock-picking, and it isn't human.
 ''Artificial intelligence is becoming so deeply integrated into our economic ecostructure that some day computers will exceed human intelligence,'' Mr. Kurzweil tells a room of investors who oversee enormous pools of capital. ''Machines can observe billions of market transactions to see patterns we could never see.''
The listeners, attendees of a conference sponsored earlier this month by the Capital Group Companies, are slightly skeptical. Some have heard that Mr. Kurzweil, 58, who takes more than 150 vitamins and supplements a day, believes people will eventually live forever. Others know he has said that in 2045, man and machine will achieve ''singularity,'' and humans will hold their breath for hours thanks to nanomachines in our bloodstreams.
 But some are aware that a former Microsoft executive and chairman of the Nasdaq stock market, Michael W. Brown, is an investor in Mr. Kurzweil's new hedge fund, FatKat, and that Bill Gates once described him as ''the best person I know at predicting the future of artificial intelligence.'' 
 More important, many of them have seen Mr. Kurzweil's ideas used by stock speculators. So, they want to learn more about his brave, new world.
 ''These ideas are the future,'' said David Atkinson, a private investor who attended another lecture later that day by Mr. Kurzweil. ''I'm not really sure I understand them, but they're making some folks rich.''
 Complicated stock picking methods are nothing new. For decades, Wall Street firms and hedge funds like D. E. Shaw have snapped up math and engineering Ph.D.s and assigned them to find hidden market patterns. When these analysts discover subtle relationships, like similarities in the price movements of Microsoft and I.B.M., investors seek profits by buying one stock and selling the other when their prices diverge, betting historical patterns will eventually push them back into synchronicity. 
 Today, such methods have achieved a widespread use unimaginable just five years ago. The Internet has put almost every data source within easy reach. New software programs, like the Apama Algorithmic Trading Platform, have made it possible for day traders to build complicated trading algorithms almost as easily as they drag an icon across a digital desktop. 
 ''Five years ago it would have taken $500,000 and 12 people to do what today takes a few computers and co-workers,'' said Louis Morgan, managing director of HG Trading, a three-person hedge fund in Wisconsin. ''I'm executing 1,500 to 2,000 trades a day and monitoring 1,500 pairs of stocks. My software can automatically execute a trade within 20 milliseconds -- five times faster than it would take for my finger to hit the buy button.''
 Studies estimate that a third of all stock trades in the United States were driven by automatic algorithms last year, contributing to an explosion in stock market activity. Between 1995 and 2005, the average daily volume of shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange increased to 1.6 billion from 346 million.
 But in recent years, as algorithms and traditional quantitative techniques have multiplied, their successes have slowed.
 ''Now it's an arms race,'' said Andrew Lo, director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Laboratory for Financial Engineering. ''Everyone is building more sophisticated algorithms, and the more competition exists, the smaller the profits.''
 So investment firms have increasingly begun exploring mathematics' furthest edges and turning to people like Mr. Kurzweil, who became an expert in pattern recognition building a reading machine for the blind.
 For years, computer scientists had tried to help machines perform mundane tasks like reading printed words or telling faces apart. With algorithms similar to those used by stock pickers, programmers created millions of rules designed to tell an ''A'' from an ''a.'' But no machine could read a page of text as well as the average child.
 So Mr. Kurzweil and others took a different tack: instead of creating sequential rules to instruct a computer to read, they thought, why not create thousands of random rules and let the computer figure out what works?
 The result was nonlinear decision making processes more akin to how a brain operates. So-called ''neural networks'' and ''genetic algorithms'' have become common in higher-level computer science. Neural networks permit computers to create new rules and automatically change underlying assumptions by experimenting with thousands of random sequences and processes. Genetic algorithms encourage software to ''evolve'' by letting different rules compete, and combining the most successful outcomes.
 Wall Street has rushed to mimic the techniques. Because arbitrage opportunities disappear so quickly now, neural networks have emerged that can consider thousands of scenarios at once. It is unlikely, for instance, that Microsoft will begin selling ice-cream or I.B.M. will declare bankruptcy, but a nonlinear system can consider such possibilities, and thousands of others, without overtaxing computers that must be ready to react in milliseconds.
 ''Most software fails in pattern recognition because there aren't enough sequential rules in the world to teach a computer to discern between two faces, or to find almost imperceptible relationships between stocks,'' said Orhan Karaali, a computer scientist and director at Advanced Investment Partners, a $1.7 billion hedge fund. ''But a machine that can generate complicated rules a person would never have thought of, and that can learn from past mistakes is a powerful tool.''
 Last year, the funds using Mr. Karaali's model returned in excess of 20 percent by using nonlinear techniques, according to his company. Whereas older methods of stock analysis rely on certain assumptions -- for instance, that market volatility always reverts to the mean -- Mr. Karaali's model calculates probabilities and generates assumptions on the fly, and might predict that during a panic, investors will sell Microsoft but, for seemingly irrational reasons, hold onto I.B.M.
 ''Only an elite group of people are using these ideas, but a lot of people are thinking about them,'' said Stacy Williams, director of quantitative strategies at HSBC Global Markets. HSBC is working with Cambridge University in using models based on how viruses spread to forecast foreign currency markets.
 ''The downside with these systems is their black box-ness,'' Mr. Williams said. ''Traders have intuitive senses of how the world works. But with these systems you pour in a bunch of numbers, and something comes out the other end, and it's not always intuitive or clear why the black box latched onto certain data or relationships.'' 
 Such qualms, however, have not stopped Wall Street from scouring university doctoral programs or listening to people like Mr. Kurzweil.
 In the pursuit of previously undetectable patterns, hedge funds are racing to quantify things -- like newspaper headlines -- that were previously immune from number-crunching.
 Both Dow Jones Newswires and Reuters have transformed decades of news archives into numerical data for use in designing and testing algorithmic systems. The companies are beginning to structure news so it can be absorbed by quantitative models within milliseconds of release. 
 Moreover, companies like Progress Software are working with news agencies to create computer programs that instantly translate news -- forexample, a headline regarding Microsoft's earnings -- into data. M.I.T. is examining, among other things, evaluating companies by seeing how many positive versus negative words are used in a newspaper article. 
 Software in development could potentially respond automatically to almost anything; changes in weather forecasts on television news, shifting analyst sentiments or what a particular movie critic said about the new blockbuster.
 ''Right now, everyone basically has access to the same data,'' said John Bates, a Progress Software executive. ''To get an edge, we want to give investors the ability to immediately turn news into numbers. We want to automate what before required human analysis.''
 But as these new techniques proliferate, some worry that promotion is outpacing reality. These techniques may be better for marketing than stock picking.
 ''Investment firms fall over themselves advertising their latest, most esoteric systems,'' said Mr. Lo of M.I.T., who was asked by a $20 billion pension fund to design a neural network. He declined after discovering the investors had no real idea how such networks work. 
 ''There are some pretty substantial misconceptions about what these things can and cannot do,'' he said. ''As with any black box, if you don't know why it works, you won't realize when it's stopped working. Even a broken watch is right twice a day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Kurzweil, an inventor and hedge fund manager, spoke to investors at a recent conference in New York where he explained how computers with artificial intelligence selected stocks after considering all the random rules that might apply. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Artificial Intelligence; Computers and the Internet; Hedge Funds

COMPANY: CAPITAL GROUP COS INC (71%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FatKat (Hedge Fund); Capital Group Cos

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%) Raymond Kurzweil; Charles Duhigg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



537 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Temptations Of a Minister Of Finance

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The finance minister, having submitted a budget that reduced deficit spending substantially, was not amused when the critics spoke up. Economists said the budget relied too much on tax increases and not enough on spending cuts, and said hard decisions had been postponed.
 ''Very often, when economists comment, they assume politics away,'' he said in an interview in New York this month. He recalled a joke: An economist stranded on a desert island is asked if he has any suggestions for getting into a case of canned food that has washed ashore. ''Assume a can opener,'' the economist begins. 
The finance minister knew the joke because it was his eminence as an economist that made him attractive as a nonpolitical finance minister for Italy, whose government has a slender majority that some thought would not last long enough to pass a budget anyway.
 The minister, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, is a former central banker who thought he had retired before being offered the job by Prime Minister Romano Prodi. Mr. Padoa-Schioppa is an unusual finance minister. Perhaps it helps that he has never run for office and is unlikely ever to do so.
 It is hard to imagine another minister delivering a lecture like the one he gave a few weeks ago at the Bundesbank, the German central bank, in which he recalled the legend of Faust, who sold his soul to the devil.
 ''For Faust, the lure of Mephistopheles's services is greatly enhanced by the fact that the price, albeit a terrible one, is to be paid later,'' he said. ''For politicians, the lure of the support obtained through public expenditures is similarly enhanced by the fact that public debt will be paid -- or reneged -- by next generations, often well after the end of one's political career.''
 Finance ministers simply do not mention, even in passing, that governments can renege on debt. Nor do they, as he did, submit a budget that the government contends will reduce growth in gross domestic product -- in his case, to 1.3 percent next year from the 1.6 percent otherwise expected.
 He insists the country will benefit later, and even argues that there will be a political benefit: ''People in Italy know an adjustment is needed. They may have more respect for a government that tries.''
 And, he argues, they understand that ''the economic balance was dedicated for too long to the stimulus of demand'' rather than to promoting long-term growth.
 Mr. Padoa-Schioppa seems to be taking on this job with a combination of zeal and academic detachment that shows in his discussion of the differences between ''the tidy, clear-cut, well-disciplined world of monetary control'' and the ''much more complex, often confused, uncertain, even treacherous one of public expenditure control.''
 He thinks monetary policy is easier, in large part because it is impersonal: the central bank deals with the market, not with anyone who is directly hurt by a decision. But a finance minister is telling an interest group or other ministers that they cannot have the money they want.
 ''These days, I tend to recall and repeat all too often that saying 'no' to someone means to say 'yes' to someone else,'' he said in his lecture at the German central bank. ''In our aging Europe, saying a marginal 'no' to pension beneficiaries today means saying 'yes' to their grandchildren.''
 Of course, the grandchildren do not vote, at least not now.
 Italy faces huge problems. It is a country with low growth, high government debt, a rapidly aging population and a coalition government united less by any vision or policy than by opposition to the previous government, which was led by Silvio Berlusconi. It needs to become more competitive against other European countries, but with the euro in place it can no longer devalue its currency as it used to do when crises arrived.
 Mr. Padoa-Schioppa tries to make all that sound like a virtue. The narrow governing margin, he said, helped make the cabinet take tough choices, since all knew that any defections would be likely to cause the government to fall. ''What made it easy,'' he said about getting cabinet approval for the budget, ''was that it was impossible.''
 Many a finance minister has come to office vowing reform, and ended up doing what was necessary to get by, which is one reason that few finance ministers manage to do what Robert E. Rubin, the former United States Treasury secretary, did -- enter office with an excellent reputation and leave with a better one. Mr. Padoa-Schioppa may not pull that off, but if he fails, it is unlikely to be for the normal reason of excessive deficit spending.
 As he told the Bundesbank audience, ''having inherited a public debt larger than G.D.P., and having committed myself and my government to comply with sound fiscal principles, I scarcely can afford even to contemplate the possibility of accepting Mephistopheles's services.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In a speech, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, Italy's finance minister, recalled Faust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Gross Domestic Product; Politics and Government 

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (58%) Floyd Norris; Tommaso (Min) Padoa-Schioppa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



538 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Symbols of the Gilded Age, With a 21st-Century Luster

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
LATE in the Gilded Age, a miserable 16-year-old bride entered the grand dining room of the Jekyll Island Club, a stray mongrel dog in her arms, her well-bred but unsavory new husband by her side. Much to her husband's chagrin -- for he planned to teach her there, in the off-season, her wifely duties -- they encountered two of the country's most powerful men, Joseph Pulitzer and the insurance magnate Henry B. Hyde, who were already dining in the room's vast columned spaces.
 The husband was a known rotter; the men recognized him from the New York scene. Before the meal was over, they had arranged for a separate room for the young bride -- and another for her dog.
According to Cleveland Amory, who told the story in his book ''The Last Resorts,'' the men stood by the woman in distress for an entire week. Hyde took her bicycling; Pulitzer, who was nearly blind, promised to put his presses behind her if the man kicked up a fuss. The bride left the island -- a private fishing and shooting club a few miles off the Georgia coast -- and the couple were divorced; the bridegroom was expelled from the club. 
 Ah, those millionaires! Ah, those grand resorts! So full of servants, so replete with gossip. In those gilt-edged times, the country's rich journeyed to hotels and spas like the Jekyll Island Club, Saratoga, N.Y., and White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., while the world devoured rosy-toned news of their exploits -- without a clue to what was really going on under those glittering chandeliers.
 What are those old-time retreats of the rich like today? Some, like Sharon Springs, N.Y. -- where Social Register types departing for a classier Saratoga were replaced by wealthy German-Jewish families -- later became almost ghost towns and are just now starting to edge back. In Cape May, N.J. -- where Presidents Franklin Pierce and Benjamin Harrison took their ease -- the Chalfonte Hotel, with its porch rockers, lockless rooms and grits for breakfast, has been resuscitated and sits like a grande dame on the National Register of Historic Places.
 Other towns had their historic hotels knocked down -- the Ocean House in Watch Hill, R.I., struggled for decades and was demolished a year ago, to be replaced by condominiums. Some lesser-known places scarcely ring a bell -- unless, of course, you summered there as a child: Eagles Mere, Pa., Murray Bay in Quebec, Narragansett Pier in Rhode Island and Nahant, near Boston.
 An autumn visit to three summer resorts that a century or more ago were retreats of the socially powerful -- Jekyll Island; Bar Harbor, Me.; and Long Branch, N.J. -- offered lessons in tourism, historic preservation and redevelopment. And nowadays, you don't have to have a patrician's pocketbook to stay at them. 
 At the Jekyll Island Club -- now a hotel open to the public, yet looking very much the same as it did a century ago -- it is now impossible to guess the origins of the guests in the room or cottage next door, and why would you want to? At the club a few weeks ago, the major sport -- besides croquet and golf -- might be called not birding but briding. While some guests were having Victorian tea in the elliptical parlor, a couple were being married under a chuppah on the lawn. 
 As they took their vows, another bride, wearing a strapless evening dress, passed by with her groom and some ushers; the brides nodded to each other. A few buildings away, a group of marines practiced raising their swords in front of a shingled chapel; on the beach, at another rehearsal, a plaid-shirted father followed the minister's instructions and walked his blue-jeaned daughter toward the ocean. (The next day, only cerise-and-white carnation petals remained, scattered on the sand.)
 AT Jekyll, at least, the memory of the members of yore -- J. P. Morgan Sr. and Jr., William Rockefeller, the sons of Jay Gould, Vincent Astor, William K. Vanderbilt, Edward S. Harkness, Marshall Field and others -- is burnished and perpetuated by the hotel's management, which hangs sepia photographs in the halls and operates the hotel subject to the preservation mandates of the State of Georgia, the island's owner since the late 1940s. 
 Although much of the rest of the seven-mile-long barrier island has been given over to public beaches and nature areas, there are now four golf courses, nine hotels, 18 restaurants and hundreds of ranch houses, built on leased land, mainly in the two decades after the state bought Jekyll Island for $695,000. Oceanfront houses with swimming pools rent for as much as $4,600 a week in season -- March until mid-August -- while a one-bedroom bungalow three blocks from the water goes for $440 a week. Houses there sell for $400,000 to $1.6 million, but you only buy the structure. Leases for the land on Jekyll all run out on Dec. 31, 2049.
 That said, it might be just as much fun to fly down, rent a room at the Jekyll Island Club with two double beds and a charming big porch with two wicker armchairs ($159 during the week in the off-season), and watch fathers play croquet with their children on the front lawn.
 In Bar Harbor, Me., the first group of tourists arrived in the mid-19th century. They came for the scenery: the village lies at the foot of Cadillac Mountain, the highest hill along the Eastern seaboard of the United States. The artist Thomas Cole visited here in the mid-19th century, and the artist Frederic Edwin Church followed. The wilderness here was nicknamed ''Eden'' -- and there is still an Eden Street.
 Those first, more humble sightseers were followed by the plutocrats, always seeking another ''retreat'' where they could build enormous houses and entertain in grand style. George W. Vanderbilt, who spent much of the rest of the year at Biltmore, his barony in the North Carolina Piedmont; Edith Wharton's brother Frederic R. Jones; and Johnston Livingston, a founder of Wells Fargo & Company, all built cottages here.
 BUT Bar Harbor -- unlike Newport, R.I., perhaps the greatest resort of the super-rich -- started out as a hotel town, where even the wealthiest took suites at the huge hotels.
 Yet before long, the rich started to build their own houses, including Wingwood House, presided over by Mrs. E. T. Stotesbury. That lady once organized a half-million-dollar alligator safari to provide the leather for a set of luggage, and trumpeted her gold bathroom fixtures as an economy, because they didn't need polishing.
 Many of those big houses -- 58 in all, including Wingwood -- were torn down or burned in the 1947 fire that wiped out about a third of the downtown; the old-money folk who still summer in this part of Maine (like David Rockefeller) choose either nearby Northeast Harbor or Seal Harbor. 
 Yet Bar Harbor still manages to keep much of its character, with streets that slant down to the water, spotted with the big houses that remain. One is currently for sale for $1.1 million. This huge shingled ''cottage'' stands right across from a fine gray waterfront mansion that blocks any significant water view but is surrounded by a huge lawn and is well set back from the busy street.
 Horse-drawn carriages have been replaced by giant cruise boats and tour buses, which arrive even in the off-season. Besides the nature walks in Acadia National Park, another local treat is the shopping inside historic storefronts. Shops sell handmade jewelry, antique sailboat models and brass binnacles, elegant linen-upholstered club chairs and batik napkins.
 Although many of the bed-and-breakfasts and a handful of restaurants close at the end of October, some stay open longer; a handful, all year long. 
 In Bar Harbor, Sharon Risley, who owns the Black Friar Inn with her husband, Perry, worries about the kind of tourism that is on the increase: cruise boats and tour buses, which she says clog streets without giving enough back in taxes. At the same time, she laments a decrease in traditional tourists: families that arrive in bulging station wagons and stay in places like hers. 
 If Bar Harbor doesn't have quite as many tourists as it did a decade ago, Long Branch, N.J., undoubtedly has more, considering where it was a few years ago.
 In the decades between the mid-19th century and World War I, Long Branch -- now little more than an hour's drive from New York City -- was indisputably one of America's most popular resorts, attracting several of the country's biggest money men. Jay Gould, the stock manipulator and railroad financier, built four cottages; George F. Baker, longtime head of what is today Citibank, built two.
 Yet it appealed to theater people as well: Edwin Booth vacationed there, and Oliver Dowd Byron, another famous actor, built 14 cottages. There was horse racing and gambling, along with the bathing and boardwalk scene. 
 THE resort was famous, not only because President James A. Garfield was taken there after an assassination attempt to recuperate -- but instead died -- but also because President Ulysses S. Grant was given a cottage by the town fathers. (It was where the hard-drinking Grant was heard to remark, ''I'd rather fight another battle than stand for another dance.'')
 But Long Branch became passe. With the advent of the Garden State Parkway in the late 1940s, motorists stepped on the gas and roared south, to Avalon and Ocean City. 
 ''The early '90s were the nadir,'' said Howard H. Woolley Jr., the city's business administrator. Interviewed in his office, Mr. Woolley brandished a scrapbook of pictures from that decade, showing a row of dilapidated buildings along the ocean drive -- buildings later condemned and torn down, now replaced by a complex of condominium buildings in a vaguely Victorian design.
 A few blocks to the south, he explained, the remnants of a once-grand boardwalk had turned into a mass of ''honkytonk'' games and rides that attracted what one resident -- sunning herself later in the day on the city's new boardwalk -- called ''the wrong element.'' 
 The decay is gone now -- $1 billion later -- and the oceanfront at Long Branch is now spotless. 
 The change didn't happen overnight: the old pier burned down in the late '80s. In 2002, the mayor and the City Council united to rebuild the pier; 2003 brought the condominiums and 320 rental units. The money came from a laundry list of state and federal agencies; when gambling was legalized in New Jersey, some revenues went into a statewide reinvestment fund. Long Branch was one of the first to apply.
 Now, the managers of these apartments say they are completely rented or sold, for rents of $1,495 to almost $3,000 a month and prices as high as $2 million.
 And the town fathers are not done yet. Another huge redevelopment, of the Broadway retail section, is planned next -- the city is negotiating with finalists, who began to submit proposals two years ago. The Ocean Place Resort & Spa, which now only has 250 rooms, will be also rebuilt. There are even more plans: to rebuild the pier for a commuter ferry to North Jersey, and maybe even to Wall Street. Mr. Woolley said the city was talking with two ferry companies.
 Is the Gilded Age returning to Long Branch? Mr. Woolley laughed. ''It's certainly well on its way,'' he replied


GRAPHIC: Photos: A NEW AGE -- Croquet in front of the renovated Jekyll Island Club in Georgia, once the preserve of the social elite (like the early 1920s group in the inset, in highly formal beachwear). (Photo by Tracie Rozhon, above
Jekyll Island Museum, inset)(pg. F1)
COMING BACK -- At left, a new restaurant, part of the oceanfront renovation of Long Branch, N.J.
right, the beach at Long Branch in its heyday, circa 1901. (Photo by Corbis)
NOW AND THEN -- At left, the Reading Room restaurant, part of a men's club in the Gilded Age, in Bar Harbor, Me.
right, the Rodick House in 1882, a grand hotel of the era. (Photos by Corbis)
 (Photos by Tracie Rozhon )(pg. F10)Map of the east coast highlighting Bar Harbor, Maine, Long Branch, New Jersey, and Jekyll Island, Georgia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); RESORTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FAMILY (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (64%); HISTORIC SITES (60%) Travel and Vacations; Millionaires and Billionaires

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Jekyll Island (Ga); Georgia ; Bar Harbor (Me); Maine; Long Branch (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



539 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Bigger Push for Charging Drivers Who Use the Busiest Streets 

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Congestion pricing, the idea of charging drivers for bringing vehicles into the busiest parts of Manhattan, has become a kind of holy grail for transportation advocates and urban planners in New York -- a coveted prize that has remained out of reach. 
 A year ago, officials from a prominent civic group floated a proposal to reduce traffic by levying a $7 fee on cars and trucks driving below 60th Street, but they found themselves treated not like visionary crusaders but like bird flu patients when policy makers at City Hall said very firmly that such a change was not on the mayor's agenda for his second term.
Now a diverse array of civic and community groups -- including such unlikely allies as conservative scholars and take-back-the-streets cycling advocates -- are cautiously moving to raise the subject again in the hope of overcoming the resistance of New Yorkers and their political leaders. They are also hoping to influence a long-term strategic plan the city is preparing, which they expect will address traffic congestion. 
 ''There are a number of groups, who come at this from very different perspectives, who don't generally agree on a lot, who want to see this happen,'' said Jeremy Soffin, vice president for public affairs of the Regional Plan Association, which studies transportation and development issues. ''There's been a concerted effort to work together and to make sure the timing is right to give this effort the best chance of happening.'' 
 The question of timing is a delicate one because of what happened last November, when a congestion pricing proposal by the Partnership for New York City, an influential business group, was described in an article in The New York Times. 
 The article appeared just three days after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg won re-election, and City Hall insiders were angry at what they perceived as the group's attempt to push a politically volatile issue to the top of his agenda, according to people on both sides. 
 Chastened, the group quickly retreated and never issued a report it had prepared describing its plan. 
 ''We were premature in terms of talking about the problem and potential solutions without thinking about how those might be implemented here in the metropolitan region and what that would take,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the group. ''It takes a lot of public buy-in, building consensus.'' 
 Now, the group expects to release a revamped study in early December that will analyze the cost of clogged streets, estimated at $12 billion to $15 billion a year. A related study done with Environmental Defense, a national environmental group, will look at the environmental costs of excess traffic and at the potential for congestion pricing to reduce traffic and thereby cut air pollution and, as a result, illnesses like asthma. 
 The new approach is intended to encourage discussion, but it could also provide cover for any politicians, those at City Hall included, who may want to climb, ever so gingerly, on board. 
 Environmental Defense has gone so far as to hire the public relations and marketing firm Dan Klores Communications to help fashion a campaign that will spread the congestion pricing message. 
 Ms. Wylde plans to discuss the economic study at a forum on Dec. 7 sponsored by the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization that is set to release a report of its own ''on the feasibility of road pricing in New York.'' The report is to include the results of focus groups meant to gauge the attitudes of New Yorkers toward such a program.
 Some grass-roots groups have already begun to take up the issue. 
 On Nov. 14, about 50 people from a coalition of 125 civic and community groups gathered on the steps of City Hall to ask that Mayor Bloomberg consider a series of measures to reduce traffic. 
 The coalition is led by Transportation Alternatives, an organization that promotes mass transit and works to make streets more welcoming to pedestrians and cyclists. It includes neighborhood groups like Sustainable South Bronx and biking advocates like the FreeWheels Bicycle Defense Fund, which works to aid bicyclists arrested in the mass bike rides known as Critical Mass. 
 The coalition wants more speed bumps on neighborhood streets and a crackdown on illegal parking, but it also asks that the city study congestion pricing.
 ''That is the gorilla in the room and, among all the measures we're discussing, it has the most potential for reducing traffic,'' said Paul Steely White, the director of Transportation Alternatives.
 He acknowledged that it would be a big change for drivers to pay to use streets that they are accustomed to using free and that there was a lot of political ground to cover first.
 Mr. White said any congestion pricing program would have to be combined with -- or preferably preceded by -- other measures like improving bus service and smoothing traffic flow. His group has asked the city to move beyond what has already been done to reduce the number of parking permits given to city employees, who drive to work in large numbers. Transportation Alternatives would also like to see more Midtown parking spaces converted to loading zones so that streets are not clogged with double-parked trucks unloading goods.
 Advocates of congestion pricing are reluctant to make specific proposals on how it could be carried out in New York, but they often point to London as an example of a successful program. 
 Championed by an activist mayor, London's program began in early 2003 and has significantly reduced traffic and sped up bus lines. London drivers must pay as much as $19 a day to enter the road pricing zone in the city center. They can pay in a variety of ways, including online, by phone, by mail or at designated shops or gas stations. Cameras around the congestion zone read vehicle license plates and feed the numbers to a computer that checks to see who paid their fees. Those who have not paid can be fined. 
 The plan developed last year by the Partnership for New York City had similar elements, although some roadways, including the West Side Highway and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, would have remained free. 
 One of the most outspoken opponents of congestion pricing in New York has been David I. Weprin, a City Council member who represents some neighborhoods in eastern Queens that are far from subway lines and where residents with jobs in Manhattan are more likely to drive to work. 
 He said congestion pricing amounted to an unfair tax on residents in those areas, many of whom can ill afford it. 
 ''The potential for causing hardship to people who rely on their cars in boroughs other than Manhattan is too great to try to implement congestion pricing at this point,'' Mr. Weprin said.
 In response, advocates said revenue from a congestion pricing program should be reserved for public transportation improvements that would help the outer boroughs. For instance, if new or faster bus routes could bring residents into Manhattan or to subway stations more efficiently, they may be more willing to forgo driving. That would also help answer critics who have said congestion pricing is nothing more than a new tax that would go straight into the city's general budget. 
 Most of all, the advocates of congestion pricing have their eyes on the long-term strategic plan for the city being prepared by Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff. The plan is a response to predictions that the city will add one million residents by 2025, and figuring out how to keep people and vehicles moving around an ever more crowded city will be an important part of it. The activists hope that it will include a recommendation for some form of congestion pricing. 
 Mr. Doctoroff refused to talk about what the plan would include, but he said he was aware that traffic is a concern. 
 ''It's clear the level of congestion is an inhibitor to growth,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We believe that smart growth is good, and therefore we need to provide additional capacity on every mode of transportation.'' That, he said, includes city streets, and he added, ''How we do that, that's what we're thinking through now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NEW ISSUES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); AIR QUALITY (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Roads and Traffic; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Advertising and Marketing; Tolls; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: Transportation Alternatives (Orgn); Environmental Defense (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) William Neuman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



540 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: Money and Violence Hobble Democracy in Nigeria 

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: ADO EKITI, Nigeria 

 BODY:
Early one Sunday morning in June, a mysterious text message flashed across Kayode Fayemi's cellphone. 
 ''Since you continue to oppose Governor Fayose, we shall kill you,'' the message read, referring to the bare-knuckled incumbent at the time, Ayo Fayose. It was signed, ''THE FAYOSE M SQUAD.''
Mr. Fayemi, a candidate for governor in this tiny state in southwest Nigeria, tried to brush off the threat. But if there was any doubt what the M in the message stood for, it evaporated six weeks later, when another candidate for governor, a World Bank consultant, was stabbed and bludgeoned to death in his bed. 
 So lucrative is public office here that even in a backwater like Ekiti, a state of only 2 million people in a nation of 130 million, the state house and the spoils that come with it are apparently worth killing for. Of Nigeria's 36 governors, 31 are under federal investigation, mostly on suspicion of corruption, and 5 have already been impeached, including Mr. Fayose in October. He is now in hiding. 
 ''This is democracy at work in Nigeria,'' Mr. Fayemi muttered as he drove between campaign stops in Ekiti in early November. ''Murder and money, violence and fraud.''
 It has been seven boisterous years since Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation and an anchor for the entire region, shed its military rule and ostensibly became a democracy. But the transformation has been slow and stumbling, hobbled by a political culture of graft and intimidation that has led to widespread neglect and disillusionment. 
 Despite some progress by the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo in fighting corruption and improving the economy, Nigerians are deeply disappointed with how their country has turned out. In 2000, suffused with the euphoria of new freedoms, 84 percent of Nigerians said they were satisfied with the state of their new democracy, according to the Afrobarometer public opinion survey. But six years later, the same survey found that just 25 percent of Nigerians felt that way. 
 New democracies naturally suffer from the letdown of high expectations, but the drop in Nigeria is virtually unparalleled on the continent. Of the 12 African countries surveyed in 2005, only Zimbabwe, which the Bush administration has called an ''outpost of tyranny,'' had a lower score. 
 ''Confidence in the new democracy has crashed,'' said Peter Lewis, director of the African Studies program at Johns Hopkins University, who was among the researchers who conducted the survey. ''Nigerians expected a democratic dividend in 1999. They expected more economic opportunity and better governance.'' 
 In small states like Ekiti, it is plain to see why confidence in democracy has fallen so far, so fast. Nowhere is Nigeria's democracy in deeper trouble than at the state and local levels, where the most bruising contests for power take place in a bloody, winner-take-all system in which the voters are all but superfluous. 
 ''Greedy politicians are literally killing their own people by stealing the money for health care, for schools, for clean water, for everything the state should provide its people,'' said Sola Adeyeye, a member of Nigeria's national assembly who once served as a local government chairman.
 In April, Nigeria is to hold its next election, choosing a president, governors and legislators in its third contest since making the transition to civilian rule in 1999, after 16 years of military domination. Though the election is still months away, political chaos and electoral violence are already gripping the nation. 
 The main political parties hold primaries in December, and the ruling People's Democratic Party may splinter over its nominee. The wave of impeachments has left statehouses in disarray and sparked violence that has killed dozens. 
 If Mr. Obasanjo, who is barred from running again by the Constitution, successfully passes the baton to an elected president next spring, it will be the first time this troubled giant of a nation has handed over power from one civilian government to another. That would cement its place in the growing family of democratic nations in Africa and further stabilize an uneasy corner of the globe. 
 But if the election fails -- and there are indications that it might, given the political chaos, electoral violence and lagging voter registration -- analysts worry that a number of grim possibilities could play out, including a military takeover that could steer the country back toward despotism.
 Failure would have broad consequences. One in six Africans is Nigerian. Nigeria is the fifth largest supplier of oil to the United States. It is the economic, social and political fulcrum on which West Africa balances.
 Mr. Fayemi, the gubernatorial candidate here in Ekiti, says he hopes to transform the political culture. He spent much of the 1990s in exile opposing military rule, and now brings his resume, studded with graduate degrees and international accomplishments, to the local political scene. 
 He also has a network of high-level contacts that includes, among many others, the liberal American financier George Soros, whom he befriended while serving on the board of Mr. Soros's Open Society Justice Initiative. 
 ''We have allowed our politics to be so debased by money and violence that of course nothing but misery can come of it,'' Mr. Fayemi said. ''It is the politics of the belly, and it is destroying us.'' 
 To spend a few days with him on the campaign trail is to experience democracy as it is lived for most Nigerians. It is not pretty. The leaders of Nigeria's 36 states are princes of a political system that rewards executive power and does little to curb corruption. Governors get a check each month that represents their state's cut of Nigeria's booming oil fortune, and have almost no one to answer to for how they spend the money. 
 Here in the state of Ekiti, that check is typically $14 million, but lately it has been more than double that because of soaring oil prices. In a tiny state like this, that money could go far toward meeting the basic needs of the population -- schools, roads, health clinics, running water. 
 In reality, many governors steal with impunity, buying the loyalty of the legislature and using state money to erect systems of patronage that help keep incumbents in office, analysts and political leaders say. 
 Ekiti's most recent governor, Mr. Fayose, is a case in point. In October, he was impeached after an investigation found that he and his associates had pocketed millions from the state treasury. In one instance, he is alleged to have spent close to $7 million, mostly in contracts to political allies, supposedly for a poultry farming project, but the money simply disappeared and the project has yet to produce a single egg. 
 Several of his top aides have been arrested in connection with the killing of the gubernatorial candidate in August. A report by a presidential security panel last year said that Mr. Fayose ''has zero tolerance for opposition,'' ''consistently sets in motion activities that will lead to violent acts'' and ''is said to be a user of hard drugs, which makes him to be highly unpredictable.'' 
 ''Under this man we lived in a state of siege,'' said Dipo Kolawole, a top administrator at the University of Ado Ekiti. ''It was worse than colonialism, worse than military rule. He was never the choice of the people. He imposed himself upon us.'' 
 While international observers ultimately deemed them to be largely free and fair, Nigeria's last two elections were marred by widespread allegations of ballot stuffing, intimidation and fraud. In 2003, Mr. Fayose bullied his way into power in Ekiti by paying off party bosses and using the police to intimidate opponents, according to analysts and political leaders here. Mr. Fayose's excesses were so egregious that, even though he was a member of the ruling People's Democratic Party, he has since been repudiated as an ''error'' by Mr. Obasanjo. 
 But even now, with Mr. Fayose and his style of politics discredited, candidates in Ekiti are expected to spread cash around. Mr. Fayemi's campaign treads the treacherous middle ground between the high road, on which pro-democracy advocates have traditionally marched directly to defeat, and the bruising, money-driven politics that dominate Nigeria's electoral contests. 
 Mr. Fayemi has spent freely on this election, handing out stacks of Naira notes as donations to local party organizations, with extra thrown in for the women and youth sections. On a recent campaign swing, he handed out nearly 500,000 Naira, or $4,000, in a single day. He estimates that winning the election will cost him 4 million Naira, a sum he has raised from allies and friends in Nigeria, as well as from his contacts in the West. 
 As he crisscrosses Ekiti's rutted roads, Mr. Fayemi navigates the messy world of Nigerian politics. At a meeting with the bosses of his party, the opposition Action Congress, he knelt before them to receive their blessing. He promised development projects, like a local polytechnic, and handed out fat envelopes of cash at another party meeting. The money was intended as a donation to the local party machinery, but what actually happens to it is anyone's guess. 
 After one rally, as Mr. Fayemi tried to leave town, a fracas erupted among some youths who crowded around his car. A dozen young men began arguing with one of his aides and blocking the car. 
 Apparently the campaign had given money for a local youth wing to a man no one could identify, and he had absconded with the cash. Mr. Fayemi would need to pay them again, the young men explained, surrounding his car as they pressed their case. 
 Mr. Fayemi threw up his hands. It had been a long day of hectic and sometimes antagonistic meetings with party bosses.
 ''This is what we live with,'' he said.
 The aide argued with the young men, but their mood darkened as the dispute stretched for several minutes. Finally, Mr. Fayemi relented. 
 ''Just pay them,'' he said. 
 The leader of the young men seized the stack of cash, carefully counting the notes in the glow of the car's headlights: 10,000 Naira, or about $80. Once he confirmed the amount and nodded his assent, a cry went up. 
 ''Excellency, Excellency!'' the young men shouted, using the honorific for governors, opening the cordon and allowing Mr. Fayemi's car to pass through. 
 ''This is our politics,'' Mr. Fayemi said, an edge of disgust in his voice. 
 Such payoffs clearly make him uncomfortable, but he said he hoped that the ends would justify the means. Once installed in the governor's office, he says he can begin to change the political culture. But first he has to get elected. 
 ''Money,'' Mr. Fayemi said. ''It is the language of Nigerian politics. As much as you want to get away from that, you also have to be mindful of those short-term things you must do.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about how corruption undermines democracy in Nigeria misstated the sum that a candidate for state governor says that running for the office would cost him, including donations to local party organizations. It is $4 million, not 4 million Naira, the equivalent of only $32,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Fayemi meets with the leaders of his party, kneeling and bowing his head to receive their blessing.
 Kayode Fayemi, left, holding a microphone, a candidate for governor of Ekiti state, campaigns for the nomination of the Action Congress party. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. A14)Map of Nigeria highlighting Ado Ekiti: At local levels, in cities like Ado Ekiti, democracy is in trouble. (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); MURDER (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); POLITICS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BRIBERY (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%) Bribery; Politics and Government; Geographic Profiles; Elections; Frauds and Swindling; Public Opinion; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Threats and Threatening Messages

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Olusegun (Pres) Obasanjo; Kayode Fayemi; Ayo (Gov) Fayose

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (99%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Nigeria; Ekiti State (Nigeria); Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



541 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Will Offer Retail Banking in Mexico, an Underserved Market

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Public opposition has all but killed Wal-Mart's plans to open its own bank in the United States. But in Mexico, its push for a bank is sailing through. 
 The Finance Ministry has given final approval for the bank, Wal-Mart de Mexico said Wednesday, and it will begin operating during the second half of 2007 and be called Banco Wal-Mart de Mexico Adelante.
A possible reason for the different reception in this country from that in the United States is that most Mexicans do not have bank accounts and Wal-Mart plans to offer them the opportunity to have one, making it hard for local activists to stir public outrage.
 And in this venture, it is possible at least for now to see Wal-Mart as the little guy. Among its competitors in the banking business are the Mexican units of global giants like Citigroup and HSBC, which have made little effort to attract the bulk of poor and working-class Mexicans. 
 By most estimates, as many as 80 percent of Mexicans do not have bank accounts. 
 The authorities, beginning with the governor of the nation's central bank, Guillermo Ortiz, have blessed the entry of retailers into banking as a way to reach many of those Mexicans without accounts.
 In its statement last week announcing that Wal-Mart, along with four other new banks, had received preliminary approval, the Finance Ministry said it expected the new financial institutions to create competition and serve markets that the country's dominant banks ignore. Subsidiaries of four foreign banks, BBVA and the Santander group, both of Spain, in addition to Citigroup and HSBC, control more than 70 percent of Mexico's banking. 
 In the United States, Wal-Mart's application for an industrial bank -- to process credit card transactions, the company said -- is frozen. Community banks as well as larger ones have joined Wal-Mart's more usual detractors among unions, small merchants and community activists to oppose the bank.
 Alan Greenspan, during his time as Federal Reserve chairman, expressed worry about regulators' lack of oversight of the parent company. And members of Congress spoke up. 
 Wal-Mart tried to head off that opposition by promising not to put branches in its stores. But at the moment, its application is under a six-month moratorium imposed in July by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on industrial banks. 
 The reaction in Mexico has been different. Wal-Mart is a giant here, too -- the country's largest retailer and private employer, with more than 135,000 workers. It has 877 outlets, including 504 food markets, along with a national restaurant chain and some 60 small department stores. It continues to grow -- in October alone, it opened eight stores and four restaurants -- and Wall Street analysts expect sales in Mexico as high as $18 billion this year. 
 Wal-Mart's Mexican banks will operate in spaces carved out of many of these stores, as opposed to building or buying freestanding structures. The number of banks is not yet certain, and the rollout will be slow. 
 Protesters in this country sometimes home in on Wal-Mart as a symbol of multinational power, and community groups say new stores gobble up scarce water and electricity without adding to the infrastructure. As in the United States, there are fears that Wal-Mart will destroy local businesses that are the bedrock of commerce. Merchants in many small communities have organized -- unsuccessfully -- to try to keep out planned stores.
 But Wal-Mart Stores is not the lightning rod for opposition here that it has become in the United States, where activists take aim at its low wages and meager benefits. In Mexico, its labor practices are no worse than those of its competitors. For most Mexicans, its low prices are all that count. Feel-good ads showing how Wal-Mart has helped its Mexican suppliers export all over the world help create a favorable image. 
 Many Mexicans are hazy about whether they are shopping in a Wal-Mart store. The company kept most names it inherited when it bought Mexico's largest retailer in 1997. 
 There is even less antipathy toward Wal-Mart's proposed bank. 
 Poorer Mexicans have been largely shut out of traditional banks by minimum balances, high fees and intimidating paperwork. Community banks barely exist. 
 ''There is an opportunity there,'' Raul Arguelles, Wal-Mart de Mexico's corporate affairs director, said in a recent interview. ''The size of the whole pie can grow for Wal-Mart and for the rest of the players.'' 
 The Wal-Mart bank will start modestly with an initial investment of $25 million, offering bare-bones savings accounts and simple personal and consumer loans, Mr. Arguelles said. It may also lend money to small suppliers and to business owners who shop at Sam's Clubs, Wal-Mart's discount warehouse chain. He said it might take as a long as five years to start making mortgage loans.
 ''We are a low-cost company,'' Mr. Arguelles added. ''We will look for a very austere bank that is very focused on the customer.'' 
 Maria de Jesus Martinez may require a little convincing. A domestic worker, Mrs. Martinez, 47, was shopping at a busy Wal-Mart-owned store one Sunday evening. About nine years ago, she put $80 into a Mexican bank. When she went to withdraw it, only $23 was left, the rest eaten up by commissions. ''It just took away all my interest,'' she said.
 No one in her family of eight has a bank account. Her daughter, Mariana Hernandez, 20, a student, showed only grudging interest. ''It might be an alternative,'' she said. ''We would have to see how they manage it.'' 
 Amy Wyatt, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart in Bentonville, Ark., which owns 67 percent of the Mexican subsidiary, said the plans for a bank were made in Mexico and were not part of any global banking strategy. ''It's really driven by the local market,'' she said. 
 In public, Mexico's traditional banks have said they are not threatened by Wal-Mart's entry. Emilio Botin, chairman of the Santander group, said on a visit here last month when asked about Wal-Mart, ''I love competition; if there's another bank, fantastic.''
 Privately, the banks have been pressing the authorities to ensure that Wal-Mart follows all the regulations they are required to -- whether security measures, how tellers are trained, or even the composition of the bank's board. 
 Despite rivals' worries, Wal-Mart's success is hardly assured. It can hire experience: to set up the bank, Wal-Mart hired a longtime banker in Mexico, Julio Bosco Gomez, former chief executive of Bank One in Mexico. A well-known banker here, he has 25 years' experience, including in the United States. 
 But other pieces of the banking business will be hard to come by. Many customers have no credit record, so Wal-Mart will have to train employees to analyze credit risk and create effective collection systems. It also faces direct competition right in its own stores, where it has leased space to traditional banks for their own small branches. 
 And competition can be expected from other retailers who moved earlier to set up their own banks. 
 The first and largest of those is four-year-old Banco Azteca, which developed from the credit operations of Grupo Elektra, a retail chain with decades of experience selling on credit to working-class customers. ''We already had 2,800 credit managers,'' said Luis Nino de Rivera, Banco Azteca's vice chairman. ''Wal-Mart does not have the remotest idea what this business is about.'' 
 Banco Azteca's figures suggest that given the chance, working-class Mexicans will use banking services, even when interest rates are high. It charges 45 to 50 percent for personal and consumer loans, but it grants them without fuss and makes payment easy. The bank started with Elektra's 2.5 million credit clients and now has 6.5 million credit customers. Its seven million savings accounts hold the equivalent of $3 billion. ''There was a lot more money under mattresses than we thought,'' Mr. Nino de Rivera said. 
 Analysts say that in the first years at least, the Wal-Mart bank's main benefits to the company will come from attracting new business to the stores and promoting more sales on credit. 
 ''Wal-Mart knows how to sell,'' said Eduardo Estrada, a Citigroup Global Markets analyst here. ''They don't know how to collect. They have to learn. This is one reason they can't start too quickly.'' He estimated that the bank could add $100 million to earnings after five years. 
 Compared with countries that have similar levels of development, World Bank figures show that Mexico is well behind Brazil and Chile in an important measure of banking activity -- private credit as a percentage of total output. In Mexico that figure was 18 percent in 2003, compared with almost 40 percent in Brazil. 
 Banks in Mexico defend themselves by pointing to the rapid growth -- 30 to 40 percent a year -- in consumer loans since 2003. 
 These are not bargains. According to a calculation by the Mexican central bank, global banks charge much higher credit card fees in Mexico than in their own countries. Citigroup's Mexican subsidiary charges an effective annual rate around 62 percent on its Classic credit card, almost three times the rate for a comparable card in the United States. 
 Some analysts question whether Wal-Mart will do much to lower prices. There is already competition among banks, yet their profits keep rising, said Clemente Ruiz Duran, an economist at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. 
 ''Wal-Mart is going to come in under the same conditions,'' he said. ''And it is not going to change those conditions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wal-Marts like this one in Mexico City will include the new banks. (Photo by Jaime Puebla/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 A Wal-Mart store in a new shopping mall in Chalco, outside Mexico City. With 877 outlets, Wal-Mart is Mexico's largest private employer. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); CREDIT CARDS (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (61%) Banks and Banking; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); WAL-MART DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Banco Wal-Mart de Mexico Adelante

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); WALMEX (BMV) (93%); BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); SANT (LIS) (90%); SANT (BIT) (90%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (90%); SAN (NYSE) (90%); SAN (MCE) (90%); SAN (BMV) (90%); BNC (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%) Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (91%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



542 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Takeovers Pushes Asian Shares Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks in Europe fell for a second day yesterday over concerns that a five-month rally may have run its course, while shares in Asia jumped to record levels amid speculation that takeovers will increase and United States interest rates may decline.
 Markets were closed in the United States for Thanksgiving and in Japan for a public holiday. 
Europe's Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index lost 0.2 percent to 358.69. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Asia-Pacific index, excluding Japan, added 0.3 percent to 378.10. 
 Credit Agricole, one of France's largest banks, declined 2.2 percent to 32.17 euros ($41.43). Citigroup lowered its recommendation on the stock to ''sell'' from ''hold'' after it reported that profit rose 12 percent in the third quarter as growth in domestic consumer banking faltered.
 Air France-KLM, Europe's biggest carrier, lost 6.5 percent to 30.14 euros, the biggest decline since May 2004. The airline said it was in initial talks to take over Alitalia, which has not reported a profit since 2002. Alitalia fell 1.5 percent to 92 cents a share.
 ''At the moment, the disconnect between Alitalia's share price and the reality of its problems makes a bid difficult to justify,'' wrote analysts at Dresdner Kleinwort in a report to investors.
 ''Markets have been anticipating only the rosiest scenario and have ignored the risks,'' said Gerard Piasko, who oversees $101 billion as chief investment officer of Julius Baer Holding's private banking division in Zurich. ''Stock markets are overbought.'' 
 National benchmarks fell in 12 of 18 western European markets. Britain's FTSE 100 index lost 0.3 percent. France's CAC 40 dropped 0.5 percent, while Germany's DAX closed little changed.
 Among the 37 members in the Stoxx 55 that have reported earnings, 65 percent have surpassed analysts' projections. The Stoxx 50 is a measure of Europe's biggest companies. 
 In Asia, the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong and the Straits Times index in Singapore closed at records for a second day. The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 index in Pakistan advanced 2.1 percent, the region's biggest gain.
 Taiwan Semiconductor, the world's largest maker of customized chips, added 0.8 percent to 63.50 Taiwan dollars ($1.93). Cheung Kong, a developer, climbed 2.8 percent to 95.25 Hong Kong dollars ($12.23). 
 Brazil's benchmark Bovespa index of the most-traded stocks on the Sao Paulo exchange rose 0.3 percent, to 42,069. Mexico's Bolsa was little changed, adding 9.59 to 24,684.34.
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras the Brazilian state-controlled electricity holding company also known as Eletrobras, rose 3.3 reais, or 7.3 percent, to 48.85 reais ($22.47).
 Allco Finance Group, a manager of assets including ships and property, surged 6.8 percent to 11.02 Australian dollars ($8.52). The shares rose after the company said it might join Macquarie Bank and Texas Pacific Group in bidding for Qantas Airways, Australia's biggest airline.
 Foster's Group, Australia's biggest brewer, jumped 4.1 percent to 6.80 Australian dollars, an all-time high, on speculation that it may become a takeover target.
 ''What happened to Qantas is pushing rumors around the market,'' said Greg Canavan, an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, who rates Foster's ''hold.'' Foster's ''would meet the criteria of cash flow that private equity funds like.''
 Mergers and acquisitions have reached a record $3.2 trillion worldwide this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 ''M.& A. is fueling the growth of equity activity,'' said Chris Tinker, head of equity research at ICAP in London. ''Capital is relatively cheap and relatively available and it is being put to work in the global market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BENCHMARKING (86%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); BONDS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); RETAIL BANKING (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRIVATE BANKING (51%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Thanksgiving Day; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS SA (ELETROBRAS) (80%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (67%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%); GAM HOLDING LTD (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); ELET3 (BOVESPA) (80%); EBR (NYSE) (80%); ACA (PAR) (57%); ACA (BIT) (57%); AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%); GAM (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (80%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (67%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (67%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (51%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (93%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); FRANCE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%) Japan; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



543 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: In Canada's Economic Divide, West Surges While East Struggles 

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
When Canada's finance minister, Jim Flaherty, presented a proposed budget on Thursday, he made a confession that his counterparts in other countries might envy. Giving an overview of the economy, he said that Canada's budget surplus for the current fiscal year was expected to be 4.2 billion Canadian dollars -- about $3.7 billion -- a full 600 million Canadian dollars more than originally estimated.
 He said that would enable him both to propose tax cuts and to reduce the national debt of 480 billion Canadian dollars at a rate that would pay it off by 2021. Opposition politicians and economists quickly dismissed his plan though, saying it largely depended on redefining the debt instead of actually eliminating it. 
But Mr. Flaherty did not address a much broader economic problem that has been troubling people who follow the nation's economy. Although Canada's economy as a whole is expected to grow by a healthy 2.8 percent this year, there is an expanding gulf between the eastern and western halves of the country. Beset by plant closings caused by a rising Canadian dollar that has increased the price of exports, the economy of Ontario, the country's most populous province, is expected to grow by only 1.5 percent. Out west, however, the economy of oil-rich Alberta will expand by 6.3 percent. ''It's kind of the east-west divide,'' said Craig Wright, the chief economist for the Royal Bank of Canada. ''And the driving wedge is commodity prices.''
 Reflecting western prosperity, Melissa Blake, the mayor of Wood Buffalo, Alberta, a municipality that includes Fort McMurray, the center of the country's oil sands development, this week asked a regulatory agency to put on hold a 6.5 billion-Canadian-dollar oil sands project by Imperial Oil, which is controlled by ExxonMobil, because the region was overwhelmed by energy-related megaprojects. The oil boom has pushed up housing prices in Alberta to the point where, affordable housing advocates say, some people with jobs are living in shelters or their cars.
 Dryden, Ontario, near the dividing line between eastern and western Canada, is the other side of the coin. Mayor Anne Krassilowsky said in an interview on Thursday that an unusually large number of homes had been offered for sale after the Weyerhaeuser pulp and paper mill, the town's main employer, eliminated about 700 of its 1,200 jobs. 
 A Canadian dollar that has risen close to 50 percent since 2002 against its United States counterpart and higher energy costs have been blamed for similar mill reductions and closings throughout eastern Canada. While Ontario is still a leading assembler of cars, providing work for about 50,000 people, exports to the United States from its auto parts industry, which employs almost twice as many people, have fallen by 6 percent over the last nine months.
 Mr. Wright and other bank economists say that improved productivity would help close the gap between the two halves of the country, but he acknowledged that the issue was not popular politically. Some of Mr. Flaherty's proposed tax cuts could make companies more productive by bringing investments in new equipment, but those proposals may never make it into a budget because of the Conservative government's fragile minority status.
 Hugh Mackenzie, an economist with the left-leaning Canadian Center for Policy Alternatives, doubts that the government will make any significant attempt to close the gap between the country's two halves through its tax policies. ''Fiscal policy is now just about balancing budgets and cutting taxes,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TRENDS (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); OIL SANDS (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (66%); PAPER MILLS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); PAPER MFG (64%); PULP MILLS (60%); PULP INDUSTRY (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Currency; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: JIM FLAHERTY (88%) Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada; Alberta (Canada); Ontario (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



544 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A Racial Gap, or an Income Gap?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In emphasizing race-based achievement gaps, ''Schools Slow in Closing Gaps Between Races'' (front page, Nov. 20) pays insufficient attention to the significant role of socioeconomic inequalities in explaining these gaps.
For social scientists studying the No Child Left Behind law, the slow progress comes as no surprise. The education researcher David Berliner has noted that ''poverty is the 600-pound guerilla in the classroom.'' 
 As long as proponents of No Child Left Behind continue to dismiss the examination of the economic backgrounds of students as an example of what President Bush has called the ''soft bigotry of low expectations'' or as an excuse for low achievement by low-income students, standards-based reforms like No Child Left Behind will have limited effects. 
 It is time for policy makers to place as much emphasis on reducing poverty as they do on improving the schools attended by poor children. Both are necessary, but are alone insufficient to reduce the achievement gap.

Alan R. Sadovnik
New York, Nov. 20, 2006

The writer is a professor of education, sociology and public affairs at Rutgers University in Newark.

To the Editor:
 Yes, the achievement gaps remain persistent. But perplexing? Come on.
 Having 10 years' experience teaching in low-income, largely black districts, and also having raised three middle-class white children, I consider it a no-brainer why my children achieve well in school while many of my students do not: I am one mother to three kids, but a teacher to 25.
 Aside from the socioeconomic differences between my kids and my students (a separate, undoubtedly more important perspective on achievement disparities), my children get more of my attention, period. 
 I want to give all of my students the same advantages I've given my own kids, but how can I possibly meet 25 individual needs with as much sensitivity and precision? 
 Why does this discussion always ignore class size as a contributing factor? 
 Why not lower the teacher-student ratio to 1 to 10 for a few years and then study the outcomes? The obvious answer is cost. But perhaps over the years this would be offset by the savings built from a better-educated and more productive group of graduates.

Mary Scheffler
Ocean, N.J., Nov. 20, 2006

To the Editor:
 No Child Left Behind, signed into law by President Bush in January 2002, has not closed the achievement gap between minority and white students, but it has had a major effect on education in America.
 The law has had a major impact on the privatization of education. With financing now available from school vouchers, increasing numbers of both minority and white families are placing their children in private and religious schools.
 In addition, American schools are increasingly becoming racially segregated as white parents remove their children from public education.

Martin Gittelman
New York, Nov. 20, 2006

To the Editor:
 All the tests in the world will not close the achievement gap. When politicians and business leaders stop blaming the schools and start focusing on the real reasons for the achievement gap -- the economic gap, the health care gap and the racial gap -- poor and minority students may have a fighting chance. 
 Until then, the more than $2 billion testing industry will continue to reap a bonanza as our nation falls further and further into the educational abyss.

Judy Rabinowitz
Ocean, N.J., Nov. 20, 2006

To the Editor:
 How can you discuss the test-score gaps between minority and white students without attributing some of the problem to the child poverty rate of almost 18 percent, the child hunger rate of 17 percent and the 19 percent uninsured rate for poor children, when African-Americans and Hispanics bear the brunt of those disadvantages? 
 Yet the education experts quoted in your article speak as if poverty and hunger, and the illnesses associated with them, had no effect on children's school attendance and capacity to learn. 
 That's not the way the principal of a school that narrowed the gap between black and white students saw it. You write that he ''credited a prekindergarten program and a school health clinic that helped keep poor students from missing class.''
 No Child Left Behind is big on testing and promises. But it does far too little to address the social and economic needs of black, Hispanic and poor white children -- needs that are inextricably linked to school achievement.

Milton Schwebel
New Brunswick, N.J., Nov. 20, 2006

The writer is the emeritus dean of the Graduate School of Education, Rutgers University.

To the Editor:
 Standardized tests may be relatively efficient to administer, but they do not provide the information educators need to understand and work to close the achievement gap. Teachers need detailed information about their students' strengths and areas of need. All they get from a standardized test is a number.
 If we want to make greater progress toward the goal of leaving no child behind, let's shelve those standardized tests and work together to truly understand the nature of the achievement gap and the academic, social and economic factors that contribute to it.

Howard Miller
Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., Nov. 20, 2006

The writer is an associate professor of literacy education at Mercy College.

To the Editor:
 A new approach to closing the education gaps between races is needed. 
 Instead of looking at the performance of unsuccessful schools, unsuccessful teachers and poorly performing minority students, why not look for the factors that underlie success?
 A study of the successful Asian students who outperform whites and other minority students might yield some interesting insights that could be effectively applied to solving the problem of those ''left behind.''

Lynn Garon
New York, Nov. 20, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Katherine Streeter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Privatization; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%) Rutgers University; Mercy College

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Alan R Sadovnik; Mary Scheffler; Martin Gittelman; Judy Rabinowitz; Milton Schwebel; Howard (Assoc Prof) Miller; Lynn Gordon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006



545 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: An Arts Festival Inspired by Mozart the Social Crusader

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE

DATELINE: VIENNA, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
''Shopping in Wien'' is the headline across the tourist-office magazines stacked at the airport, in hotels, around the city center. On the cover is a familiar figure: not a film star but, elongated by several inches of his signature standing-on-end Dagwood hair, the theater director Peter Sellars. 
 Has the well-known provocateur, the man who gave us ''Don Giovanni'' in Harlem, gone establishment, shilling for tourist dollars? Say rather that Vienna (or those in charge of its cultural funds) is embracing the shock of the new. Of the $38.5 million earmarked for Wien/Mozart, a festival celebrating the 250th anniversary of Mozart's birth, fully one-third went to Mr. Sellars for a festival within a festival called New Crowned Hope. Named for Mozart's Masonic lodge, it consists entirely of non-Austrian artists doing new work. Not a note of Mozart is being played.
Instead, the music of New Crowned Hope ranges from operas by John Adams and Kaija Saariaho to a concert series by illegal immigrants living in Vienna. Alice Waters is cooking; Cambodians are dancing a version of ''The Magic Flute''; homeless women are serving tea. 
 But the festival's most significant component may be the six feature films Mr. Sellars commissioned, using $2.5 million of his budget as seed money. They include ''Half Moon,'' an Iran-Iraq co-production that won the Golden Shell for best film at the San Sebastian festival in Spain, and ''Paraguayan Hammock,'' the first feature film by a Paraguayan woman, Paz Encina, which won a prize at Cannes.
 ''I'm obsessed with treating filmmakers and architects as artists,'' Mr. Sellars said recently, sitting in the Cafe Sperl, an artists' hangout of long standing, on an unusually balmy morning. ''To commission a film the way you would commission a piece of music or a painting, that's a beautiful thing to do.''
 Mr. Sellars, 49, is a springy, animated figure who spins out words like a small American Scheherezade. Stage directors, after all, are storytellers, and as a festival maker, Mr. Sellars simply has a bigger story to tell.
 It is a story that, at New Crowned Hope, begins with Mozart's end. ''Mozart was born in Salzburg, and he died here,'' Mr. Sellars said. ''So that's the story that has to be told from Vienna. And the question was, where was he going, because he died so young. What was next?'' 
 In his commissions, Mr. Sellars defined this question in terms of the themes he saw in the three major works Mozart wrote in 1791, the last year of his life.
 ''Magic and transformation in 'Magic Flute,' '' he said, ticking them off, ''with a focus on the trials by fire and water of a young generation. And Nelson Mandela-style truth and reconciliation, which is where 'Clemenza di Tito' invites us to go, in a most visionary way. And then, of course, the ceremonies for the dead.''
 The Requiem is the third focal point. ''All over the world, mass graves are being uncovered every day,'' Mr. Sellars said. ''And this country is no stranger to mass graves.''
 Mr. Sellars's stories are never merely decorative. His entire career has been predicated on the idea that art innately has social relevance. This leads to fantastic, inspired gestures like the film commissions, which created opportunities in some countries that do not have their own financing for films and yielded a vital body of work. But it also leads to idiosyncrasies, like Mr. Sellars's interpretation of Mozart as a crusader for social change.
 ''Sonata form is: Idea A arrives, and is very glad to be here,'' Mr. Sellars said. ''And then Idea B arrives, which is very annoying. Idea A has to totally reconstitute itself in order to include Idea B. It is the image of social inclusion. That's Mozart's language. For me, all this music had those social dimensions to it.''
 It's a compelling narrative. But it is very much Mr. Sellars's own. 
 Cross-pollination among different cultures is another of Mr. Sellars's favorite stories, and it has already yielded wonderful results at New Crowned Hope, which runs through Dec. 13. Mr. Sellars notes with glee the thematic overlaps and reflections that have emerged in works from radically different backgrounds. The engrossing film ''Opera Jawa,'' by the Indonesian director Garin Nugroho, delivered one image -- a woman drenched in clay, waiting to be molded -- that directly echoed a video from the art exhibition ''Green Flame,'' curated by Meskerem Assegued, an Ethiopian anthropologist. 
 But another reflection of ''Opera Jawa'' was less coincidental: Mr. Sellars used one of the leads, Eko Supriyanto, as a dancer in his production of the John Adams opera ''A Flowering Tree.'' In this case the line between cultures' feeding each other and simple appropriation is unclear. 
 Still, this appropriation highlights another of Mr. Sellars's strengths: he is an excellent collaborator, and he knows how to pick good partners (like Simon Field and Keith Griffiths, who co-curated the film commissions). 
 Mr. Sellars's festivals have not always run smoothly. His last one, in Adelaide, Australia, ended in his leaving under heavy criticism and a budget deficit in 2001, and a feeler extended by the city of Essen about a festival in 2010 is creating a controversy in Germany. But New Crowned Hope appears to be thriving, with exciting work and without, so far, any notable run-ins with the Viennese. 
 One reason for the smooth sailing is probably that the city's involvement is being mediated through the director of Wien/Mozart, Peter Marboe, a former politician who has long been an effective supporter of the arts. (In New York, he was partly responsible for the establishment of the Austrian Cultural Forum.)
 ''It should be not an homage,'' Mr. Marboe said of Wien/Mozart, ''but an occasion to do things that one wouldn't otherwise do, like perform all of Mozart's sacred music in Vienna's churches.'' It was also an occasion to commission new work by and for artists that Mr. Marboe felt showed a Mozartean curiosity and talent. Wien/Mozart commissioned at least 35 new musical and theater events, apart from the New Crowned Hope commissions. 
 Of New Crowned Hope, Mr. Marboe said, ''I think it is a nice conceptual approach to the end of the Mozart year. At the end, the question is not just how do we play Mozart, but how do people in the world -- in the fields of film, of music -- deal with these big Mozart themes?'' 
 Mr. Sellars is more idealistic. The role for the arts, he said, ''is to do what cannot be achieved by politics and economics at the moment.''
 It sounds naive. But when the filmmaker Mahamat-Saleh Haroun recounted to the audience of his powerful ''Dry Season'' (which took a special jury prize at the Venice Film Festival) that filming had been interrupted by a rebel uprising in Chad but continued in spite of the danger, Mr. Sellars's claim suddenly seemed completely right. 
 And his festival has a vitality that contrasts with the stereotype of Vienna as a city of conservative and venerable culture. One of the most unusual things about this municipal festival in the spirit of Mozart is that this appears to be exactly what the authorities want.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Saturday about the theater director Peter Sellars and his New Crowned Hope festival in Vienna referred incorrectly to the playing of Mozart's music in the festival. Some will in fact be played, in Mark Morris's ''Mozart Dances.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Sellars has assembled Vienna's New Crowned Hope festival. (Photo by Kevin Higa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (87%); TOURISM (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); OPERA (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); THEATER (57%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); HOMELESSNESS (51%) Culture; New Crowned Hope Festival; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Anne Midgette; Peter Sellars; Paz Encina

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (56%) AUSTRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); IRAQ (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); SPAIN (54%) Vienna (Austria)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



546 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; VISITOR CENTER REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: In a Grand Old Hall, A Grab Bag of History 

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
It is somewhat eerie when everything about a place declares that it is a center, but there is nothing for it to be the center of. We sense this in the cavernously grand railway terminals of once-thriving cities, in the government buildings of once-great empires, and, on a modest scale, in the newly renovated Federal Hall National Memorial, which this week became home to the new Federal Hall Visitor Center. 
 The place itself -- at 26 Wall Street, opposite the New York Stock Exchange in Lower Manhattan -- still has the aura of historical centrality. George Washington was inaugurated above these steps' ancestors; Congress met at this location before moving to Philadelphia; City Hall was once here. And after its opening in 1842, the current Greek Revival building was the New York Customs House -- which at the time made it central to the nation's economy.
But by 1955, when the hall was taken over by the National Park Service, it had become a handsome antique, a memorial museum without much presence. After a $16.5 million restoration financed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the wake of damage from the 9/11 terrorist attack, its function still seems unclear, except for one thing: it is a reminder of what a center was once like. 
 So it is easy to imagine how the National Park Service got its idea: let Federal Hall become a center again, but one for tourists and New Yorkers interested in the Park Service's New York sites, from the Gateway National Recreation Area in lower New York Bay to Hamilton Grange in Harlem, where Alexander Hamilton lived before his death in a duel. 
 Under the guidance and fund-raising expertise of the National Parks of New York Harbor Conservancy (nyharborparks.org) and the oversight of NYC & Company (the city's tourism bureau), Federal Hall would become the Park Service's New York center, a place where the 10 national parks in the New York-New Jersey area (with their 23 historic sites) would be united in the cause of harbor tourism. Castle Clinton, Ellis Island, the Statue of Liberty -- these famous sites would join their less well-known comrades like the Lower East Side Tenement Museum or Breezy Point, all to be celebrated, along with the harbor itself, in a new exhibition and visitors' center.
 With $300,000 of the $16.5 million restoration grant and $500,000 in private financing, the center opened this week in a single 1,500-square-foot gallery stocked with tourist brochures and an information desk. (The private funds included support from the New York Times Foundation; Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman emeritus of the New York Times Company; and his sisters, Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger, Marian S. Heiskell and Ruth S. Holmberg.) 
 The center's exhibition, titled ''The Gateway to America: Discover New York Harbor'' and contributed pro bono by the designer David Rockwell and the Rockwell Group, is built around six thematic wall displays of photos, images and objects, highlighting the Park Service, Federal Hall and New York's commerce, ecology, military installations and ethnic populations. It is meant to be a flip book of the city, with a nod to its varied constituencies. But it is marred by peculiarities. 
 The first display, for example, is a map of the harbor with the Park Service's sites featured. ''After your visit to Federal Hall,'' a promotional panel says, ''come away knowing more about the historic and natural legacy, as well as the future, of New York Harbor.'' But nearby, among a series of protruding screens, is an image of waterfalls from Ohio's Cuyahoga Valley National Park.
 Lining the exhibition's perimeter are more than 60 of these screens -- portentously called memory icons by the designer -- each showing sites run by the Park Service, most having nothing to do with New York or its harbor. Sometimes an effort is made to link them with the display's themes, however obliquely. Under a discussion of New York commerce is an image of the Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park in Alaska. Near a description of Federal Hall as the location where Congress passed the Bill of Rights are images of Mount Rushmore and of the Women's Rights Historical Park in Seneca Falls, N.Y. But no information is provided about these sites, which are arrayed around the room like candles stuck in the rim of a cake celebrating the Park Service. This offers distraction rather than illumination, particularly in such a small exhibition. 
 The self-celebration also disrupts the straightforward accounts of wall panels, punctuating them with photographs of Park Rangers. They celebrate the anniversary of Washington's inauguration in period costumes, or dress as Revolutionary War officers for high school students, or appear in Civil War uniforms at the General Grant National Memorial. 
 You can, of course, look beyond the family snapshots and attend to the substance. And there are things to discover. It is interesting, for example, to learn that gold and silver were once stored in the basement of Federal Hall after the creation of the Federal Reserve in 1913. And it is relevant, too, to learn about the ecological work being done at the 27,000-acre Gateway National Recreation Area, or that between 1863 and 1935, about 7,000 immigrants made their home in the Orchard Street tenement that is now the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. A History Channel video about New York Harbor is also scheduled to be installed in January. 
 But had the Park Service featured a smaller selection of its New York sites as part of a rotating exhibition giving them more focused attention, that would have been far more intriguing and useful. As it is, many of these displays have no practical tourist value and provide scanty information. You never learn, for example, that the main way to visit the African Burial Ground in Lower Manhattan right now is by observing a street sign named for it, that the burial ground itself is buried, and that the memorial pictured is not yet built but is under construction. 
 Given that tourism is barely served, what hope does ordinary history have? The spirit of the harbor and the city only peeks through glancingly in the discussions of commerce and immigration. Some historical objects are on display, including Martha Washington's mourning ring and George Washington's waistcoat buttons, but so are fliers from a Chinese laundry and a fortuneteller that are described as authentic but are clearly replicas. 
 It also does not bolster historical confidence to see, under the heading ''Standing With Our Community,'' this sentence: ''Tragedy struck on September 11, 2001, when hijacked planes crashed into the World Trade Center.'' That passively voiced account with its shrug of hapless ''tragedy'' occludes the nature of the attack and its source. 
 The creators of the Visitor Center want it to become a hub for visitor information downtown about the harbor and its parks. But Castle Clinton, where Battery Park's tourists throng, would have been a more central place for harbor orientation. And if a large exhibition can go awry by trying to do too much, this one is seriously thrown off balance, trying to be too many things without fully succeeding in a single one. 
 The exhibition was designed to be easily changed, and perhaps over time it will. But for now, the center does not hold. 

The Federal Hall Visitor Center is in the northwest gallery of the Federal Hall National Memorial, 26 Wall Street, Manhattan. (212) 825-6888


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wall displays at the newly opened Federal Hall Visitor Center. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) Federal Hall National Memorial (NYC); Reviews

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (80%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (50%) Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



547 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; There's Detroit and There's Trnava; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: Car Production Surges In Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: TRNAVA, Slovakia 

 BODY:
For Slovakia, the recent inauguration of an $890 million automobile factory was a major event. The prime minister and other government officials attended. French executives from Peugeot Citroen, which built the factory, flew into the tiny town of Trnava, where the sprawling factory is expected to employ up to 3,500 people and churn out as many as 300,000 compact cars a year. After the collapse of Communism in 1989, many foreign carmakers rushed to acquire local carmakers or build their own factories in countries like Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic. 
 That relative trickle, though, is now a flood. The money has been pouring in, and the pace and frenzy is prompting talk of Europe's auto industry shifting from west to east.
By 2010, the Czech Republic could nearly double its production over last year, to more than a million cars. Indeed, as a whole, Eastern Europe has become Europe's backyard manufacturing center, and it could be producing 3.4 million cars annually by 2010, a 33 percent jump over 2005, according to forecasts by PricewaterhouseCoopers. Even Russia's production is expected to rise to 1.6 million cars a year from 1.2 million now. 
 That kind of growth can only be envied by more established carmaking countries: the United States could be making some 12.6 million cars, a 9 percent jump over last year, and Japan about 10.3 million, a mere 2 percent increase from last year.
 By contrast, Britain is expected to drop to 1.5 million from 1.8 million in 2005. France is expected to stagnate at 3.6 million, compared with 3.5 million last year. Belgium was struck a blow recently when Volkswagen said it was stopping production in a plant near Brussels, eliminating 4,000 jobs. Even before Peugeot opened its Trnava plant, it announced that it was cutting 11,000 jobs, mainly in Western Europe. The move included closing a plant in Ryton, England.
 This year, car production in Central and Eastern Europe, excluding Russia, is on track to exceed 2.4 million vehicles, as carmakers from Europe, Asia and the United States pour billions of dollars of fresh investment into local factories. 
 That may be a fraction of the 57.5 million cars made last year in the 20 top automobile-producing nations in 2005. But the explosive growth contrasts starkly to plans by many automakers to scale back employment and thus production in Western Europe and the United States. Within the last year or so, General Motors, Toyota, Volkswagen, Peugeot, Fiat, Suzuki, Hyundai and Kia have announced plans to build or expand assembly plants in the region. ''Making a car is not like making a plastic bag,'' said Sigrid de Vries, the spokeswoman for the Association of European Automobile Manufacturers in Brussels. ''You have to be close to the market and flexible, you have to be close to the customer, and this requires a certain reorganization.''
 The reasons for Central Europe's new wave of growth are complex. For one thing, the region, together with Russia and China, is one of the world's great untapped auto markets. 
 Sluggish auto industries under the old Communist regimes left many families without cars. Local governments championed local automakers, like Skoda in the Czech Republic and Dacia in Romania. They were driven to near ruin under Communism, but some of those automakers were then bought by Western carmakers after 1989, when Volkswagen acquired Skoda and Renault bought Dacia.
 High gas prices in the West have also encouraged consumers to start shifting from big cars and S.U.V.'s to the kind of compact cars that are a specialty in Eastern Europe. Above all, labor here is the cheapest in the region. 
 Engineers in Slovakia earn half of what Western engineers make, and assembly line workers one-third to one-fifth, according to Alain Baldeyrou, Peugeot's plant manager in Trnava. If that does not sweeten the region for foreign carmakers, East European governments offer incentives, from financing some of the investment to offering a low flat-and-simple tax on employee wages and corporate profits, as in Slovakia, where all taxes are a simple 19 percent. By 2010, new investment will lift the region's production to just below that of France, which is expected to be making 3.59 million cars that same year, and more than twice that of Britain, where production will drop to 1.49 million, from 1.77 million in 2005. 
 ''Central Europe is in the European Union, it has the advantage of a stable economy, and they want the euro,'' said Matt Pottle, central European automotive director for PricewaterhouseCoopers. He added that this was likely to mean far slower growth in some Western countries that now specialize in small-car production, like France and Spain.
 It will also create more manufacturing jobs in the four major Central European countries, where the number has already risen to 284,507 in 2004, the last year for which figures are available, from 235,826 five years earlier; during the same time, such jobs fell slightly to 1,978,338, from 1,991,848 in Western Europe. 
 ''Their largest challenge may be potential shortages of qualified labor,'' Mr. Pottle said, noting that ''prices of labor are rising quite rapidly.''
 Within recent months, European carmakers have introduced a variety of new models that they will assemble in their Eastern European assembly plants. At the recent Paris Auto Show, Renault featured the Logan, a four-door car assembled in Romania, starting at 5,700 euros (about $7,200) in Eastern Europe.
 ''Today, Europe is a price market,'' said Stephane Lemperier, a Renault executive, where consumers buy based on low prices. When Ford introduces an update of its successful subcompact, the Ka, which is now assembled in Valencia, Spain, the new model will be built at a factory Ford will share with the Italian automaker Fiat in Tichy, in southern Poland, where Fiat will assemble a new version of its popular Cinquecento.
 But Eastern Europe is not making just cheap small cars. Volkswagen assembles its Touareg S.U.V. and the big Q7 of its Audi affiliate in Slovakia; Porsche assembles the body of its expensive Cayenne in a factory near Bratislava, and then ships them to Germany for finishing.
 And the automakers are pulling their suppliers into the region as well. Peugeot officials said that steel coils for the Trnava plant now come from mills in France, Germany and Austria. But they plan to begin using Slovak steel next year after U.S. Steel brings online a $160 million hot-dip galvanizing mill, able to make 385,000 tons of automobile-grade steel sheet a year, in Kosice, in eastern Slovakia. 
 Seats for the Trnava plant are manufactured by Faurecia, a Peugeot-controlled company, at a suppliers' park near the main factory. Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland have been vying to attract suppliers for the big new assembly plant Hyundai is building at Novosice in the eastern corner of the Czech Republic, a short drive from Slovakia and Poland.
 With many of the countries of Eastern Europe now in the European Union, cars from the region enter Western Europe without duties, essentially erasing the border for the automotive industry. Countries not in the union that are protectionist, like Russia, are also attracting investment of their own. 
 G.M. may be losing money elsewhere, but it expects to almost double its sales in Central and Eastern Europe, including Russia, within the next three years, and to expand its dealer network in the region by 80, to about 480, according to Automotive News Europe.
 This summer, G.M. opened a plant near St. Petersburg to assemble the Chevrolet Captiva, a midsize S.U.V.; by 2008, G.M. hopes to bring online a $127 million plant nearby to assemble about 25,000 vehicles a year.
 The decisions to move assembly plants east raise awkward questions among workers and their labor union representatives in the West. Labor union leaders in Germany, with the backing of leaders in other countries, have been pressing the European Union to limit the kinds of incentives that Eastern European countries offer automakers to settle there. 
 Union leaders are as irate as they are helpless. ' ''It's a deliberate act of vandalism by the company,'' said James O'Boyle, a union leader at the Ryton plant, just north of Coventry, that is scheduled to close. Peugeot, he said, would lay off about 2,800 workers in Ryton, and though unemployment in the region is low, at about 4 percent, the auto workers would have to settle for inferior jobs. 
 ''No doubt people can find jobs, if they take immense cuts in wages and cuts in benefits,'' Mr. O'Boyle said. ''Some people will go on to better things, but they are a minority.''
 Jean-Martin Folz, Peugeot's chief executive, denied that the closing in Ryton and the expansion in Trnava reflected a repositioning of the industry eastward. ''What you are observing is the economic growth of the European Union,'' he said, ''the growth of manufacturing here.'' Ryton was closed, he said on the edge of the inauguration ceremony, ''because it was the least profitable of our factories.'' 
 The new plant has been a boon to locals, like Stefan Bosnak, Trnava's mayor, who attended the ceremony. He said that unemployment had dropped to about 5 percent from 13 percent three years ago for the region of 70,000 people, which had a reservoir of skilled engineers left over from the Communist arms industry. 
 Mr. Baldeyrou, the plant manager, said wages were not the critical factor. ''The share of salaries in the price of a car is about 15 percent,'' he said. ''Materials form the greater part, not wages.'' And in the former Communist countries, unions pose few threats for foreign investors. Fewer than half a million of Slovakia's work force of 2.3 million are unionized, and the number is falling.
 ''People are doing a good job; there are good social benefits,'' said Ivan Stefanec, a member of Parliament from the region. ''So there is no immediate need for unions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peugeot officially opened a new $890 million factory last month in Trnava, Slovakia. The plant is expected to employ up to 3,500. (Photo by Didier Mallac/REA)(pg. C1)
 Peugeot plans to shut its factory in Ryton, England, laying off about 2,800. Car production in Western Europe is shrinking. (Photo by Darren Staples/Reuters)(pg. C9)Chart: ''EASTERN EUROPEAN CAR PRODUCTION''Graph tracks quarterly car production for Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovak Republic from 2003 through September 2006.(Source by European Automobile Manufacturers Association)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Production; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: John Tagliabue

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) SLOVAKIA (99%); EUROPE (97%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); POLAND (93%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HUNGARY (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ENGLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; Czech Republic; Hungary; Poland; Slovak Republic

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



548 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Falls Sharply Against Euro and Pound

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Jeremy M. Peters reported from New York and Carter Dougherty from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
The dollar dropped sharply yesterday against a range of major currencies, with the euro breaking through $1.30 for the first time in a year and a half. The fall highlighted concerns about softness in the American economy as economies abroad continue to expand.
 The currency sell-off came as investors weighed a number of issues that complicate the prospects of the United States in the coming months, including a huge trade imbalance with China and a slowing domestic housing market. On top of that, economic growth in some European countries is gaining momentum, threatening to siphon investment away from the dollar. 
The dollar's losses came in a thin trading day in which the British pound rose to its strongest value against the dollar in two years. The euro traded at $1.3079 yesterday afternoon, up from $1.2941 on Thursday. The pound was trading at $1.9317, up from $1.9156. 
 Stocks closed lower on Wall Street yesterday after a shortened holiday trading session that was soured by news of the dollar's woes.
 ''To dismiss this as a technical correction is to overlook the structural reasons why the U.S. dollar is having a very hard time these days,'' said Hans Redeker, global head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas in London.
 Economists say the United States is in a vulnerable position compared with its global competitors. While the most recent data show that the trade imbalance tightened in September, the decline was largely a result of falling oil prices. The deficit between what Americans import and export was a negative $586.2 billion for the first nine months of the year, and it remains on track to break last year's record of a negative $716.7 billion. The biggest chunk by far represents imports from China.
 The trade gap will be one of the major issues that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and other top Bush administration officials discuss next month when they travel to China. Mr. Paulson, along with a delegation that will include Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is expected to press Chinese officials on a number of economic issues, from cracking down on piracy to allowing the Chinese yuan to trade more freely in currency markets.
 Analysts said that the dollar's drop yesterday, which was accelerated by orders from traders to sell automatically once it fell past $1.30 against the euro, reflected a growing anxiety over Chinese economic policy. China's central bank holds a large amount of American currency, and speculation has intensified recently that it could begin selling off dollars to avoid being burned if the dollar collapses. 
 Also lurking behind the dollar's depreciation is the rising probability, in the view of some economists and currency investors, that a slowing American economy will force the Federal Reserve to begin cutting borrowing costs next year.
 Against the backdrop of a European Central Bank that seems determined to tighten rates further next year, the appeal of dollar-denominated assets is falling as the prospect of higher returns in Europe rises.
 ''There can be no doubt that the E.C.B. has more shots in its gun,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs in London. ''If the Fed starts cutting next year, then the gap begins to widen.''
 Already, the European Central Bank has signaled that it will raise rates by a quarter percentage point, to 3.5 percent, on Dec. 7, and bank watchers have been voicing rising expectations of more rate increases after that.
 This week, data on German business confidence, French economic growth in the third quarter and a historically reliable gauge of business sentiment in Belgium all pointed toward stronger growth. All these factors are more likely than not to push the European bank to raise interest rates in a bid to head off inflation, a course of action that would damp the appeal of the dollar in relation to the euro, currency specialists said.
 ''This drop in the dollar has been justified for some time,'' said Chris Turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ING Baring in London. ''The American economy could do more than simply land softly, and Europe is pretty strong right now.''
 But there was no single event yesterday to touch off such a sharp drop in the value of the dollar. Rather, economists said, it was a culmination of recent signs of weakness in the American economy that investors found troubling. Some experts said that could suggest that the dollar's losses would deepen.
 Julian Jessop, chief international economist for Capital Economics in London, said in a research note yesterday that the sudden drop in the dollar was ''an indication of a much more fundamental lack of support for the currency.'' He said this suggests that ''the falls will be all the larger once the markets do start to anticipate persistently sluggish growth.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The fall of the dollar is highlighting concerns about softness in the American economy as economies abroad continue to expand. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News)(pg. C8)Chart:The dollar has fallen to its lowest level against the euro in more than a year and a half.Graph tracks euros to a dollar since 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EURO (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BANKING IN CHINA (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%) United States Economy; Currency

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); BNP PARIBAS SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%) Jeremy W Peters; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Europe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



549 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: 4 Things to Serve When a Central Bank Chief Drops By for Breakfast

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
ON both sides of the Atlantic, there are complaints that central bankers are simply too worried about inflation, and therefore may keep interest rates too high. Consumer price indexes seem to be well under control. 
 But inflation can be in the eye, or wallet, of the beholder. Some complain that the published inflation figures do not represent what people really see in their own lives.
This column is not intended to determine what the real inflation rate is, if there is such a thing. Instead, it introduces an index that, sort of, traces the inflation that many people confront every morning. It is the breakfast inflation index.
 The index is made up of the nearby futures market prices for four commodities seen on many breakfast tables: coffee, orange juice, wheat and bacon. 
 By that measure, inflation is running out of control. In fact, breakfast inflation has been running above energy inflation.
 At the end of 2001, it cost $2.65 in the futures market to buy one pound each of orange juice solids, coffee and pork bellies, plus six pounds, or a tenth of a bushel, of wheat. (Pork bellies are the source of bacon, and wheat is used for bread.)
 By the end of last month, that price was up to $4.82. And it has risen a little more this month, although that change is not shown in the graph because the other charts are based on monthly consumer price indexes.
 That is an overall inflation of about 82 percent in under five years -- an annual rate of 13.2 percent. By contrast, the energy component of the United States Consumer Price Index has risen at a rate of 10.2 percent a year.
 The breakfast index does not, of course, actually describe what happens at breakfast. Commodity prices, even of things like bread and orange juice, are not the biggest components of costs at the grocery store. And the weightings in the index among the four commodities are more than a little arbitrary.
 But the rising prices represent real forces. Weather has had a significant impact this year on coffee and orange juice production, and thus on prices. But demand levels are also rising as more people in the world become wealthy enough to buy products previously used primarily in rich countries. 
 Among the commodities in the index, pork bellies have shown the least inflation since the end of 2001, rising at a rate of 3 percent a year. Wheat has risen at a rate above 11 percent and orange juice has climbed more than 13 percent a year. It is coffee that has led the way, rising at a rate of more than 18 percent a year.
 Next year, of course, the breakfast index may decline, and almost certainly will if the weather is better in important growing areas. But the gains it has shown serve as a reminder that the core Consumer Price Index -- excluding food and energy -- can be a highly misleading measure of the inflation people really confront, even if it is the one that central bankers prefer to discuss.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Inflation Rises in the Morning''All charts show change since December 2001Breakfast index*AVG. ANNUAL INCREASE: +13.2%U.S. Consumer Price Index for energyAVG. ANNUAL INCREASE: +10.2%Consumer price index for:United StatesAVG. ANNUAL INCREASE: +2.7%Euro zoneAVG. ANNUAL INCREASE: +2.1%BritainAVG. ANNUAL INCREASE: +3.0%*Based on the change in futures prices of coffee, orange juice, wheat and pork bellies through the final trading day of each month.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets [commodity prices], Haver Analytics [consumer price indexes])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); FUTURES (91%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PORK (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINK MFG (69%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Coffee; Oranges; Wheat; Pork Bellies; Consumer Price Index; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



550 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Rationalizing The Rally In Airlines

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
THE US Airways bid to acquire Delta Air Lines benefited investors throughout the airline sector -- except for Delta shareholders. Shares of US Airways and other major carriers leaped when the bid was announced, but Delta's plunged after a small initial rally.
 Delta is making its way through bankruptcy reorganization. Its creditors are first in line to receive the $8 billion-plus in stock and cash pledged by US Airways, which explains the about-face in Delta's stock and a near 50 percent gain in the price of its unsecured debt. 
The increase in US Airways' stock is a bet that the carrier will save the $1.65 billion that the company expects from eliminating routes overlapping Delta's. US Airways won a reputation for frugality after its 2005 merger with America West produced savings far greater than forecast.
 Brian Nelson, an analyst at Morningstar, seems less impressed than the throng of buyers in US Airways stock. He estimated its fair value at $20 a share, well below its closing price yesterday of $62.95, and suggested that management was less adept at shaving expenses than others thought.
 ''US Airways has done a commendable job extracting costs from the combined entity,'' he said in a research note, referring to the America West merger. Nevertheless, he added, ''the carrier remains saddled with an elevated cost structure and severely strained labor relations.''
 The estimate of savings from a combination with Delta may have been nudged up by wishful thinking. Robert Gallo, managing director of the transportation consultancy MergeGlobal, warned that savings achieved by cutting the number of flights, rather than through efficiencies achieved across an expanding route system, often fall short of their goal. In fact, they may disappear altogether.
 ''The trick in this business has always been, If you shrink the network, can you drop operating expenses faster than you drop revenue?'' he said. ''People make a living trying to do that, but it's very, very difficult.''
 Mr. Gallo spent six years at US Airways in the 1990s and praised the company's management, especially the way it executed the many mergers that made it one of the nation's largest carriers. Still, he says that $1.65 billion is a lot to save for two airlines with a combined $28 billion in operating costs. ''It would strike me that that's a big number and a tough one to achieve,'' he said.
 Wall Street's high hopes were not restricted to US Airways; an index of airline stocks rose 6 percent on Nov. 15, the day the merger was proposed. Investors are betting that if the deal goes through, it will prod rivals into seeking mergers of their own, reducing the supply of seats and allowing airlines to increase fares.
 THAT may happen even without further deals. Michael Linenberg, who follows airlines for Merrill Lynch, calculates that an anticipated 10 percent reduction in Delta and US Airways routes would trim the sector's gain in capacity next year from 3.4 percent to 1.3 percent.
 ''Such capacity rationalization certainly bodes well for the rest of the industry as it results in stronger pricing power,'' he said in a report issued the day after the bid was disclosed.
 Mr. Linenberg liked the announcement enough to raise share price targets by 17 percent or more on the corporate parents of US Airways, American, Continental and Alaska. He has buy ratings on all of them.
 Airlines have already benefited greatly from increased traffic and an ability to raise fares in their fifth year of recovery after the 2001 recession and the Sept. 11 attacks. But that improvement has not gone unnoticed on Wall Street. Many airline stocks have risen fivefold, tenfold or more since the trough after 2001.
 If you looked at only the stock charts, you would assume that airlines are raking in enormous profits, yet despite sharp growth in air travel and fares, the industry ran at a loss until recently. Net profits are expected this year and next, but a recession, terrorism or renewed labor strife could change that forecast overnight.
 Investors are pricing in a lot of good news for an industry where the news often ranges from bad to less bad -- or worse if the Delta deal and others do not go through. In fact, Mr. Gallo interprets the rally not so much as an expression of hope for an overhaul but as a vote of no confidence in the status quo.
 ''Carriers have been able to chop up their furniture for firewood,'' he said. ''You have to think the movement of stock prices is based on a perception that it's beyond the ability of individual carriers to manage their businesses more effectively.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Market Values column in Business Day on Saturday, about a rally in airline shares, contained an outdated estimate of the value of US Airways stock by a Morningstar analyst. The estimate was $30 a share then, not $20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US Airways; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%); DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



551 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Pension Plan in Ontario Is Buying Ports in U.S. and Canada

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan agreed to buy two marine container terminals in the New York area and two in British Columbia from Orient Overseas (International) for $2.4 billion. 
 The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, one of Canada's largest institutional investors, said the deal with Orient Overseas, based in Hong Kong, is still subject to Canadian and United States regulatory approvals.
The terminals involved are the New York Container Terminal on Staten Island and Global Terminal and Container Systems at Bayonne, N.J. The deal also includes TSI Terminal Systems' Deltaport and Vanterm facilities on Canada's Pacific coast.
 Once the deal is completed, the terminals will nearly double the value of the plan's infrastructure and timber portfolio to $6.5 billion -- about 8 percent of the plan's total assets.
 ''This acquisition represents solid, robust assets, has little vulnerability to market or economic vagaries and features a very attractive growth profile that we will support and will serve us well into the future,'' James Leech, senior vice president of Teachers' Private Capital, the pension plan's private investment arm, said in a statement.
 Combined annual sales of the operations total approximately $500 million. The terminals include equipment to either load shipping containers onto ships from trucks or trains or unload them from ships for transport by land to their destinations.
 Orient Overseas is part of a transport and logistics group that has offices in 58 countries.
 The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2007, after receiving the necessary regulatory and shareholder approvals.
 The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan has $84 billion in assets under management and administers the pensions of Ontario's 163,000 elementary and secondary school teachers and 101,000 retired teachers.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The teachers' pension plan's deal includes TSI Terminal Systems' Deltaport and Vanterm facilities on the Pacific coast of Canada. (Photo by Udo Weitz/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Ports

COMPANY: ORIENT OVERSEAS INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ontario Teachers Pension Plan; Orient Overseas (Holdings) Ltd

TICKER: 0316 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488999 ALL OTHER SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS488320 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (58%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (58%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4789 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (58%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (58%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); HONG KONG (92%) New York City; British Columbia (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



552 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Cities Compete In Hipness Battle To Attract Young

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Brenda Goodman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
Some cities will do anything they can think of to keep young people from fleeing to a hipper town. 
 In Lansing, Mich., partiers can ease from bar to bar on the new Entertainment Express trolley, part of the state's Cool Cities Initiative. In Portland, Ore., employees at an advertising firm can watch indie rock concerts at lunch and play ''bump,'' an abbreviated form of basketball, every afternoon.
And in Memphis, employers pay for recruits to be matched with hip young professionals in a sort of corporate Big Brothers program. A new biosciences research park is under construction -- not in the suburbs, but downtown, just blocks from the nightlife of Beale Street.
 These measures reflect a hard demographic reality: Baby boomers are retiring and the number of young adults is declining. By 2012, the work force will be losing more than two workers for every one it gains. 
 Cities have long competed over job growth, struggling to revive their downtowns and improve their image. But the latest population trends have forced them to fight for college-educated 25- to 34-year-olds, a demographic group increasingly viewed as the key to an economic future.
 Mobile but not flighty, fresh but technologically savvy, ''the young and restless,'' as demographers call them, are at their most desirable age, particularly because their chances of relocating drop precipitously when they turn 35. Cities that do not attract them now will be hurting in a decade. 
 ''It's a zero-sum game,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution, noting that one city's gain can only be another's loss. ''These are rare and desirable people.''
 They are people who, demographers say, are likely to choose a location before finding a job. They like downtown living, public transportation and plenty of entertainment options. They view diversity and tolerance as marks of sophistication. 
 The problem for cities, says Richard Florida, a public policy professor at George Mason University who has written about what he calls ''the creative class,'' is that those cities that already have a significant share of the young and restless are in the best position to attract more. 
 ''There are a dozen places, at best, that are becoming magnets for these people,'' Mr. Florida said.
 That disparity was evident in a report released this week by the Metropolitan Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, which showed Atlanta leading the pack among big cities, while other metro areas, like Philadelphia, hemorrhaged young people from 1990 to 2000. (In this competition, surveys that make a city look good are a favorite opening salvo.)
 In that decade, the Atlanta study said, the number of 25- to-34-year-olds with four-year college degrees in the city increased by 46 percent, placing Atlanta in the top five metropolitan areas in terms of growth rate, and a close second to San Francisco in terms of overall numbers. Charlotte, N.C., also outperformed Atlanta, with a growth rate of 57 percent, the second highest in the country after Las Vegas. 
 (Demographers point out that Las Vegas started with very small numbers and still ranks last among major cities when it comes to the percentage of its 25- to 34-year-olds with a college degree.)
 Atlanta did particularly well with young, educated blacks -- a boon for employers seeking to diversify their ranks. The city's report zeroed in on people like Tiffany Patterson, 27, who on a recent Thursday night was hanging out at Verve, the sleek new Midtown bar and restaurant that is one of her marketing clients. 
 The place was thrumming with young African-Americans in leather jackets, stilettos or pinstripe suits -- the kind of vibe, said Ms. Patterson, who is from Dallas, that made her stay in Atlanta after college. 
 ''If I go home, women my age are looking for a husband,'' she said. ''They have a cubicle job.'' 
 In Atlanta, Ms. Patterson said, she can afford a new town house. A few years ago, she decided to leave her financial sector job and start her own business as a marketing consultant.
 ''I thought, I can break out and do it myself,'' she said. ''It really is the city of the fearless.''
 The recent study, based on census figures and conducted by Joe Cortright of Impresa Consulting in Portland and Carol Coletta, president and chief executive of CEOs for Cities, a nonprofit organization in Chicago, showed that Atlanta won its net gain in educated young people by luring them from New York, Washington, Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston. 
 ''What we're seeing is the jury of the most skeptical age group in America has looked at Atlanta's character and likes it,'' Sam A. Williams, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, said. 
 But Mr. Williams acknowledged the difficulty of replicating that phenomenon on purpose. 
 Had the chamber tried to advertise Atlanta, he said, ''we might have screwed it up --because they're much more trusting of their own network than they are of any marketing campaign.''
 ''You can't fake it here,'' he said. ''You either do it or you don't.''
 In addition to Atlanta, the biggest gainers in market share of the young and restless were San Francisco; Denver; Portland; and Austin, Tex. The biggest losers included Washington, Philadelphia, New York and Los Angeles. 
 But some of the losing cities have been trying hard to forestall their losses, in part by focusing on talented workers who want a certain lifestyle instead of big employers that have traditionally been interested in tax credits and infrastructure. 
 Steven W. Pedigo, the research director for the Greater Washington Initiative, a regional economic group, said the numbers there had begun to turn around. Stephanie Naidoff, Philadelphia's director of commerce, said a major effort to draw college students off campus with things like internships and concert tickets was paying off, increasing the city's graduate retention numbers. 
 Studies like Atlanta's are common these days. From Milwaukee to Tampa Bay, consultants have been hired to score such nebulous indexes as ''social capital,'' ''after hours'' and ''vitality.'' Relocation videos have begun to feature dreadlocks and mosh pits instead of sunsets and duck ponds. In the governor's race in Michigan this fall, the candidates repeatedly sparred over how best to combat ''brain drain.'' 
 But determining exactly what works is not easy. In Atlanta, focus group participants liked the low cost of living, an airport hub that allowed easy travel and what they perceived as a diverse and open culture.
 And Atlanta has some strong advantages, of course. There are some 45 colleges and universities in the metro area. The Cartoon Network is based here, as are scores of companies in the technology and entertainment sectors. The music industry is another draw for the creative class. And the city has large international and gay populations, considered strong indicators for popularity with the young and restless.
 ''Atlanta's just one of those mixes,'' said T. J. Ashiru, 30, a Nigerian who chose Atlanta over New York for college shortly after the 1996 Olympics were held here, and stayed to begin his career in finance. ''The Olympics was basically the catalyst for what Atlanta became.'' 
 In some cases, cities have done well in the competition without even overtly trying. Charlotte has done well without either a major university or the kind of strong identity -- like Austin's position as a live music capital -- that helps put cities on the young-and-restless map. 
 At the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, Tony Crumbley, the vice president for research, said the city and state had done a lot of things right without realizing it, like establishing liberal banking laws that made Charlotte a financial capital, and redeveloping downtown in the 1980s. 
 ''Another thing,'' Mr. Crumbley said, ''there are more Frisbee golf courses in this area than any other place in the country.''
 Still, what works in one city will not work in others, Mr. Cortright said, and not all young people are looking for the same things. He cites Portland's bike paths, which many point to as an amenity that has helped the city attract young people. 
 ''I think that confuses a result with a cause,'' Mr. Cortright said. Portland happened to have a group who wanted concessions for cyclists and was able to get them, he said. 
 ''The real issue was, is your city open to a set of ideas from young people, and their wish to realize their dream or objective in your city,'' he said. ''You could go out and build bike paths, but if that's not what your young people want, it's not going to work.''

 PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION, 2000: 7
 CITY'S ATTRIBUTES
Banking capital
Redeveloped downtown; building new Nascar museum
Frisbee golf, new artificial river for whitewater sports

Austin, Tex.
CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000: + 56
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION, 2000: 10
CITY'S ATTRIBUTES
Center for high-tech jobs and Internet start-ups
Live music capital of the South
University of Texas has 50,000 students

Portland, Ore.
CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000: + 50
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION, 2000: 6
CITY'S ATTRIBUTES
Pedestrian- and biker-friendly
Distinctive neighborhoods, small-town feel
City of indies: entrepreneurs, artists, iconoclasts

Atlanta
CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000: + 46
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION, 2000: 9
CITY'S ATTRIBUTES
Diversity -- premier city for successful African-Americans
Affordable housing and major airport
45 universities, including top historically black institutions

NET LOSS TO ATLANTA, 1995-2000*
Areas that lost the most people ages 25 to 34 to Atlanta

New York: 9,450
Miami: 3,601
Los Angeles: 3,197
Chicago: 2,789
Washington: 2,763
Philadelphia: 1,675

* People moving to the Atlanta area minus people moving from the Atlanta area

(Sources by chambers of commerce; U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. A11)

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Bria Bryant, 25
Tiffany Patterson, 27
and Obi Ogene, 27, at Verve, a new Midtown bar and restaurant in Atlanta. Ms. Patterson, originally from Dallas, and Mr. Ogene, from Nigeria, are part of a growing trend of young people who are moving to Atlanta. (Photo by John Nowak for The New York Times)
 Employees at the Wieden & Kennedy advertising agency, top, at a company basketball game. Below, Nicole Andren assays her shot options. (Photos by Leah Nash for The New York Times)(pg. A11)Chart: ''Attracting the Next Generation''Demographers say cities with attributes like strong economies and active cultural lives attract young, educated people. Atlanta was among the metropolitan areas with the fastest growth in college-educated 25- to 34-year-olds from 1990 to 2000. Many of the nation's largest cities lost young people to that area.College-educated 25- to 34-year-oldsLas VegasCHANGE, 1990 TO 2000: +105%PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION, 2000: 3%CITY'S ATTRIBUTES: Room for growth: began with low base of young people Entertainment and gambling centerCharlotte, N.C.CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000: + 57

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SUBURBS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Population; Urban Areas ; Age, Chronological; Colleges and Universities; Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Population; Population Shifts

PERSON: Shaila Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); LANSING, MI, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%) Atlanta (Ga); San Francisco (Calif); Denver (Colo); Portland (Ore); Austin (Tex); Washington (DC); Philadelphia (Pa); New York City; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



553 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Aid, Revised

 BODY:
Like many of its predecessors, the Bush administration wants to reform foreign aid. These programs sorely need better coordination and predictability -- and a clear way to measure whether they are working. Randall Tobias, the new director of foreign assistance, is a good manager and could impose much-needed coherence. 
 But there are worrisome signs that the administration is also planning deep cuts in antipoverty spending as aid is supposedly reoriented to promote democracy and fight terrorism. A little-noticed statement on the Web site of the Agency for International Development says the goal is to ''focus all U.S. foreign assistance on helping to build and sustain democratic and well-governed states.''
Of the nearly $24 billion requested by the State Department for foreign aid this year, a little over $1 billion is devoted to democracy programs, including training legislative staffs, helping reform courts, and working with women's and business organizations. Privately, officials say that number is likely to rise substantially in next year's budget request, while the roughly $3.7 billion devoted to antipoverty programs -- fighting disease, promoting education, providing microcredit loans -- is likely to fall to make up the difference. 
 While foreign aid spending is up over all in the Bush administration, the increase has come almost entirely in four programs: aid to Iraq and Afghanistan, the 15-country global AIDS initiative and the new Millennium Challenge Corporation, which seeks to help well-governed poor countries. 
 In a worrisome sign, money for programs to address childhood disease and maternal mortality is down by one-third in this year's budget request. The administration is also cutting antipoverty spending in Latin America and Africa to pay for programs in Islamic countries, considered to be front-line states in the war against terror. 
 Promoting democracy and fighting terrorism are laudable goals. But such work needs to come on top of -- not instead of -- financing antipoverty programs, which save hundreds of thousands of lives and earn untold good will for the United States. There is also little indication that America knows how to build democracy. There are too many worrisome reports of programs to encourage privatization turning into boondoggles for contractors, or new anticorruption agencies dissolved or made toothless by those in power. 
 This is no time to cut off the world's poor, especially for programs with such an uncertain record. If the administration will not restore a sensible balance to foreign aid, the new Congress should.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); MICROFINANCE (71%); AIDS POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TRENDS (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CORRUPTION (50%); RELIGION (50%) Foreign Aid; Editorials; Economic Conditions and Trends; Antipoverty Programs; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



554 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

The Dollar Falls Sharply On Anxiety Over China
The dollar dropped sharply against other major currencies, highlighting concerns about softness in the American economy. Analysts said the drop reflected particular anxiety over the country's huge trade surplus with China. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Political Scandals in Taiwan 

Scandal, outrage and humiliation -- delivered loudly to the public -- are consuming political life in Taiwan, as a kind of death watch has settled over the second term of President Chen Shui-bian. PAGE A6

Graphic Novels' New Readers
Teenage girls' growing interest in Japanese comics, called manga, has prompted DC Comics to develop Minx, a line of graphic novels for that audience. THE ARTS, PAGE B7

Philippe Noiret Dies at 76
Philippe Noiret, a much-loved character actor, won an international following in films like ''Cinema Paradiso,'' at right, and ''Il Postino.'' He ''expressed something of the French soul,'' said Dominique de Villepin, the prime minister of France. PAGE C10

New Hordes at the Great Wall
China's greatest attraction is crumbling, and so popular that the government is trying to save it from being loved to death by tourists. TRAVEL

Rock of Ages
Older listeners are among the record industry's most reliable consumers, and AARP is trying to become a cultural tastemaker. Will boomers listen? Meanwhile, a market is emerging at the other end of the age spectrum: hipsters in training (and diapers). ARTS & LEISURE

Still Left Behind
What it will really take to close the achievement gap between black and white students and between poor and middle-class students. MAGAZINE

Dream Maps
In Thomas Pynchon's new novel, ''Against the Day,'' a globe-trotting tale set mostly on the eve of World War I, anarchic Americans collide with quasi-psychic European hedonists and a crew of boyish balloonists, anticipating the shocks to come. BOOK REVIEW

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page Inside summary on Saturday about the sharp drop in the dollar misstated China's trade relationship with the United States, which was a factor in the currency's decline. The United States runs a trade deficit with China, not a surplus.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); SCANDALS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



555 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: In Cincinnati, Life Breathes Anew in Riot-Scarred Area

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
A few years ago, Jim Moll, a real estate agent, turned to his friend Bill Baum, a developer, and asked whether anyone would ever sell condominiums on Vine Street, the epicenter of race riots here in 2001.
 ''Not in our lifetimes,'' Mr. Moll recalls Mr. Baum replying.
One recent afternoon, Mr. Baum, 57, stood on the battered pine floorboards of a 130-year-old building on Vine Street as a workman mixed cement in a wheelbarrow. Mr. Baum's company, Urban Sites, is transforming this vacant brick shell into six condominiums, which he plans to sell by next summer. 
 ''To hear the jackhammers and the booms and the nail guns,'' Mr. Baum said, ''it's music to me.''
 Vine Street runs through the heart of Over-the-Rhine, a neighborhood of narrow streets and ornate brick buildings built by German immigrants from 1865 to the 1880s. After decades of decay in the area, gentrification is spreading north from downtown and south down the steep hillside of Mount Auburn. New condominiums, art galleries, theaters and cafes are bringing people and investment.
 But poverty remains, as do drugs, violent crime and the stigma of the three days of riots in 2001. The riots effectively killed an earlier Over-the-Rhine renaissance, in the late 1990s. 
 The magic of Over-the-Rhine is in its compact brick buildings. Mostly two- to four-story walkups, few are significant individually. But together they create a historic district with a scale and grace reminiscent of Greenwich Village in New York. In May the National Trust for Historic Preservation listed the entire 362-acre neighborhood as one of the country's 11 Most Endangered Historic Places.
 As Over-the-Rhine's white families left for the suburbs after World War II, its buildings attracted black families displaced when Interstate 75 tore through the nearby West End neighborhood, said Vice Mayor Jim Tarbell, who moved to Over-the-Rhine in 1971. It gradually became a slum in what the Census Bureau has found is the sixth most segregated city in the nation.
 By 1990 the neighborhood's median family income was $4,999, census figures show. It was the most dangerous part of the city, according to Police Department records, with almost 22,000 calls for emergency service, 8 murders and 306 robberies in 2001. 
 During the first renaissance, a generation of young hipsters discovered Over-the-Rhine, drawn by sturdy, funky and affordable buildings just a five-minute walk from downtown. The first nightclubs moved to the area in the 1980s, followed by art galleries and specialty shops. St. Theresa Textile Trove opened in 1994 and attracted art quilters from across the country, said Becky Hancock, its owner. A few doors down stood the Suzanna Terrill Gallery.
 At the height of the boom, Mr. Baum said, young downtown office and restaurant workers placed down payments on future apartments that still had garbage piled on the floor and pigeons nesting in the walls.
 ''There was this palpable feeling that things were really taking off,'' said Ran Mullins, who moved to the neighborhood in 1999 and now owns Metaphor Studios, an advertising agency in Over-the-Rhine.
 But early in the morning of April 7, 2001, Stephen Roach, a white police officer, shot and killed Timothy Thomas, an unarmed African-American, after a foot chase. A protest march two days later devolved into riots. Many Over-the-Rhine businesses were looted. 
 After the riots, redevelopment projects fizzled. Most of the nightclubs closed. Demand for apartments dwindled, Mr. Baum said. Art galleries, including Suzanna Terrill's, closed, and St. Teresa Textile Trove moved to another neighborhood because customers refused to drive into Over-the-Rhine. 
 ''The riots set this neighborhood back a decade,'' Mr. Mullins said.
 Paradoxically, the riots' reverberations may actually speed Over-the-Rhine's recovery. Afterward, thousands of renters receiving federal rent subsidies left the neighborhood.
 ''A huge number of people just vamoosed,'' said Marge Hammelrath, director of the Over-the-Rhine Foundation.
 Their exodus left 500 of the neighborhood's 1,200 buildings vacant, according to the Trust for Historic Preservation. Property values dropped, making it easier for developers to buy into the neighborhood. 
 But unlike the last boom, where small developers rehabilitated buildings one at a time, Over-the-Rhine's current wave of gentrification is driven by Cincinnati's corporate and philanthropic elite, whose strategy is to buy entire blocks. The largest player is the Cincinnati Center City Development Corporation, known locally as 3CDC, which was created in 2003 with $80 million raised by the city's corporate leaders.
 In the last 18 months, 3CDC invested $27 million in Over-the-Rhine, buying 100 buildings and 100 vacant lots, said the organization's president, Stephen Leeper. It completed 28 new condominiums on Vine last year and is building 68 more.
 Next came the Art Academy of Cincinnati, which spent $13 million to move from its hilltop campus into two adjacent warehouses in Over-the-Rhine last summer. Now the academy's sign, which is four stories tall and reads ''ART'' in red neon letters, casts its light into new condominiums. The academy also became an anchor for smaller arts groups, like Know Theater of Cincinnati. 
 The neighborhood's rapid growth makes some people worry that low-income families will be pushed out. 
 ''Obviously the architecture is beautiful,'' said Bonnie Neumeier, a community activist. ''But we feel that the faces of our people are more important than the facades of the buildings.''
 This time, the biggest threat to revitalization may come less from crime or racial tension than from Over-the-Rhine's buildings themselves. Many sat vacant for so long that they are on the verge of collapse, Mr. Tarbell said, and some that were used as crack dens were bulldozed.
 ''This is a race,'' said Bill Donabedian, a director at 3CDC. ''If we don't move quickly, we will lose these buildings forever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Much of the area, including this part of Main Street, has begin to thrive again, five years after race riots brought redevelopment to a halt.
 The renaissance of Over-the-Rhine, a historic neighborhood five minutes from Cincinnati's downtown, can still be a hit-or-miss process. (Photographs by Tom Uhlman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); MURDER (71%); POLICE FORCES (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SUBURBS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); QUILTS & QUILTING (66%); CENSUS (64%); DISPLACED PERSONS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Demonstrations and Riots; Historic Buildings and Sites; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Crime and Criminals; Blacks; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (59%) National Trust for Historic Preservation

PERSON: Christopher Maag

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Cincinnati (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



556 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: The Dow's 2-Week Winning Streak Comes to an End

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, snapping the Dow Jones industrial average's two-week winning streak, after higher oil prices and a weaker dollar produced concerns that holiday sales and economic growth might falter.
 Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, led a decline among merchants as their busiest period began. Johnson & Johnson, the maker of health products from Band-Aids to schizophrenia pills, and Citigroup, the biggest United States bank, led a retreat in the Dow industrials.
 ''A slowing economy generally means lower corporate earnings, which is going to translate into lower stock prices,'' said Joel Binder, who helps manage more than $1 billion as chief investment officer at Old Second Wealth Management in Aurora, Ill. ''The dollar decline and higher oil prices are driving the concerns.'' 
 The Dow average slipped 46.78 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,280.17. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.14, or 0.4 percent, to 1,400.95. The Nasdaq composite index finished down 5.72, or 0.2 percent, at 2,460.26.
 In the last four sessions, the Dow has dropped 0.5 percent, for its first weekly decline since Nov. 3. The S.& P. 500 ended the week little changed, while the Nasdaq gained 0.6 percent.
 The Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for companies with a median market value of $665 million, lost 0.1 percent, to 792.28. 
 Markets were closed Thursday for the Thanksgiving Day holiday and trading ended early yesterday in United States bond and stock markets.
 Oil rose on a report that the Italian oil company Eni halted delivery of some Nigerian crude because of an attack by insurgents. Prices also rose on speculation that heating fuel demand would increase in the United States.
 Crude for January delivery climbed 1.1 percent, to $59.90 a barrel, in electronic trading in New York. There was no floor trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
 The dollar fell to its lowest level in 19 months against the euro on speculation that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates early next year as central banks in Europe increase them.
 The United States currency extended its losses after breaching $1.30 against the euro for the first time since April 2005, a level where traders had placed automatic orders to sell the dollar. The European Central Bank has raised rates to an almost four-year high, and the bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said on Nov. 20 that inflation remained a threat. The Fed has left rates unchanged since August.
 ''The break of 1.30 is a strong signal that the dollar has to weaken,'' said Carsten Fritsch, a currency strategist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. ''The sentiment for the dollar is negative. In the euro zone, growth will remain strong.''
 The dollar traded as low as $1.3109 to the euro and closed at $1.3079 in New York. The dollar also fell to 115.75 yen, from 116.26, and was at $1.9317 versus the British pound, the weakest in almost two years.
 Gold had a weekly gain in London as the dollar fell, spurring demand for bullion as an alternative investment. Gold rose slightly, to $638.20 an ounce. It is up 2.8 percent this week.
 United States Treasury securities rose this week, sending yields to a nine-month low, as traders raised bets the Fed would cut interest rates on signs of an economic slowdown.
 Interest rate futures indicate that traders see a 51 percent chance that policy makers will reduce their target at the March 21 meeting. The odds were 11 percent on Nov. 16. Benchmark 10-year notes were buoyed this week as a report showed consumer confidence weakened.
 ''Everyone has been revising down their economic growth forecasts,'' said George Goncalves, a fixed-income strategist in New York at Banc of America Securities. ''Rates really just reacted to lower growth expectations.''
 The price of the 10-year security rose 3/32 yesterday, to 100 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.55 percent, from 4.61 percent a week earlier. The yield on the 30-year bond fell marginally to 4.63 percent, against 4.69 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EURO (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOME CENTERS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); FUEL MARKETS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); ENI SPA (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); COMMERZBANK AG (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (84%); ENI (BIT) (82%); E (NYSE) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); CZB (LSE) (57%); CBK (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



557 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: List for Schools Seems to Grow More Wishful

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
If Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer and the State Legislature hold to the spending floor set by the state's highest court this week and allocate $2 billion a year in additional education aid for New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein will have to slash their long and expensive wish list for the city's public schools. 
 The Court of Appeals on Monday overturned lower court rulings that said the city schools were entitled to at least $4.7 billion a year more to make good on the State Constitution's guarantee of a sound and basic education. Instead, the judges said that $1.93 billion adjusted for inflation was enough, changing the political calculus. 
In 2004, anticipating a much larger windfall, Mr. Bloomberg drew up a $5.3 billion menu of parent-pleasing initiatives to show that he was fully prepared to spend the extra money. 
 The mayor's plan included $1.9 billion in programs for early grades, including half-day prekindergarten for 3-year-olds and full days for 4-year-olds, new after-school programs, and expanded arts and gym classes. It also included $2 billion for secondary school upgrades like smaller classes in middle school and better college and career counseling. 
 While the administration is still hoping that Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, will push for more than the minimum, the reality is that the court's ruling could mean tough choices. ''It was always a way for people to say, 'When Santa Claus finally comes things will be better,' '' said Joseph P. Viteritti, a professor of public policy at Hunter College. ''Well, Santa Claus isn't coming. There is no Santa Claus after all. It forces people to get real.'' He added: ''$2 billion is not chump change, but it's a lot less than $6 billion.'' 
 If given just $2 billion more a year, Mr. Bloomberg could pay for the early grade proposal or the secondary school reforms, but not both. Whichever he chose, he would still have to scuttle the rest of his plan, which includes $830 million for principal and teacher training, new pay incentives for teachers, and programs to increase parent involvement in the schools, as well as $514 million for special education and non-English speaking students.
 In his campaign, Mr. Spitzer promised to spend up to $8.5 billion more on needy school districts statewide, including more than $4 billion for New York City. In response to Monday's ruling, he said he would propose more than the $2 billion minimum, but he did not specify how much. 
 The state currently contributes about $7.1 billion, or about 45 percent, of the city's $15.4 billion yearly school budget for nearly 1.1 million students. 
 Reaching a deal with the State Legislature, however, could be difficult. Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader of the Republican-controlled State Senate, has already said he believes that the $1.93 billion is enough. 
 But some strong Democratic constituencies, like the city teachers' union, will push Mr. Spitzer to keep his pledge, as will the city's Republican mayor. 
 ''We're confident Governor-elect Spitzer will do everything possible to increase the amount owed to New York City's schoolchildren,'' said Randi Weingarten, the union president. ''But obviously less money means you have to prioritize. We think the two most essential programs are reducing class sizes and creating full-day universal prekindergarten, and we will continue to fight -- along with others -- to make sure we get the money we need to make these programs happen.'' 
 City officials, trying to keep pressure on Mr. Spitzer, were not ceding ground, and Chancellor Klein made clear that he had not given up on big-ticket items. 
 ''In terms of priorities, universal prekindergarten along with funding lead teachers in math and science in our high-needs schools are at the top of the list,'' Mr. Klein said in a statement when asked to comment on the school system's priorities in light of the court decision.
 He added that he still hoped to use new state money to expand small high schools and create more schools for students at risk of dropping out, to reduce class size, to increase services for special education and for students with limited English, and ''to establish robust community partnerships to address critical youth development needs.'' 
 The sum at issue is substantial: $2 billion a year translates to roughly $1,887 per student, or about $943,500 annually in a school with 500 students.
 While the amount ordered by the court is still huge, a leading critic of school financing lawsuits that have been filed across the country said the focus on the money had distracted from the work of actually fixing the city schools. 
 ''For five years, people have looked to the courts and argued about the money without thinking seriously about what to do,'' said the critic, Eric A. Hanushek, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.
 Professor Viteritti said there was a danger that city officials would use the reduced award as an excuse. ''People inside the system will always have the impression that they didn't get enough, they didn't get what they deserved and if we only had more,'' he said. ''That's always going to be there as a kind of alibi.''
 But the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, the umbrella organization of parents, community school boards and advocacy groups that filed the school financing suit in 1993, said the court had picked a wrong number. ''We feel very strongly that $1.93 billion does not represent an adequate amount to fund a sound basic education,'' said Geri D. Palast, the group's executive director. 
 ''George Pataki put forward a $4.7 billion plan in 2004,'' Ms. Palast added. ''I really don't think Eliot Spitzer should put forward any less.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (66%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools; Suits and Litigation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) David M Herszenhorn; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



558 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: On the Road As Far As China

BYLINE: By JUSTON JONES

 BODY:
Anyone who has been on a road trip lately is likely to have seen a big Yellow or Roadway truck hauling merchandise.
 YRC Worldwide owns those trucking lines, and several other businesses. William D. Zollars, 59, the chairman and chief executive, spoke recently about the company's rapid growth, the spotlight on gasoline prices and the perk of being home every night. Following are excerpts: 


Q. You announced last month that third-quarter sales reached a quarterly record of $2.57 billion. Wall Street had expected sales of $2.64 billion. Why is Wall Street disappointed when you are setting records?

A. The revenue fell short of projections because the economy slowed significantly in the quarter. We were the last company to report earnings in our sector, and every other company had already reported revenue that fell short of projections.

Q. Higher gasoline prices have been a thorn in the side of consumers for much of this year. Have they been painful for your company, too?

A. Not directly because we have a fuel surcharge that we put in place in 1996. It is adjusted on a weekly basis and has protected us from the rising gas prices.

Q. Have your customers complained about the rise in the surcharge?

A. The fuel surcharge used to be viewed as being temporary, and the fact that it wasn't very much, customers really didn't pay a lot of attention to it. But it's been as high as 20 percent now for quite a while and as a result of that has become an integral part of the pricing discussion. In the old days, that topic probably wouldn't have come up. Today, it's front and center with every one of our customers.

Q. The company's share price has fallen more than 20 percent since January. What is going on?

A. People have been very goosey about the economy, with predictions of a recession about every month. Since we are a cyclical company, we really get whacked when downturns are seen as imminent. Of course, that hasn't happened, but we believe it keeps our stock price from performing where we think it should be.
And even though we have the fuel surcharge, people think there is a correlation between high gas prices and our costs.

Q. You acquired the USF Companies last year and now are on pace to finish 2006 with $10 billion in sales for the first time. Are you now shopping for more properties?

A. We bought Roadway in 2003, so we have had two major acquisitions in the past three years. We have tripled the size of the company since 2003. I think that we are probably finished buying asset-based companies in the U.S. and have shifted our focus to building out the global network. We have a couple of joint ventures in China, which is a primary area of emphasis for us.

Q. Why is China important?

A. We are basically following our customers around the world. And almost all of our customers now have a presence in China.
 We have two joint ventures with a Chinese company, Jin Jiang. One is in the freight-forwarding part of the business; the other is in the logistics side of the business. Both of those are going well. And we probably will be making acquisitions there now as part of that strategy as well. 

Q. When will you announce the China deals?

A. I would say definitely within the next year.

Q. The lifestyle and demands of trucking must make it tough to recruit and retain drivers.

A. We are a little bit advantaged in that regard because many of our companies, including Yellow and Roadway, are Teamster companies, meaning we offer wages and benefits that are higher relative to other competitors. And we also offer a better quality of life for our drivers. Because of the way our networks are engineered, they are usually home every night in their own beds. We only have about a 2 percent turnover rate.

Q. You are also on the boards of other companies, including Cigna and ProLogis. Has the spy scandal at Hewlett-Packard caused you to rethink your role on them?

A. I think there are good reasons to serve on other boards. One is to pick up a perspective that you don't have in your own company. One of the boards I am on is health care related, and that is a big deal for any company. And the other one is a logistics company in the distribution-center business, and a lot of that stuff is very translatable to our businesses.
 At the end of the day, I have a hard time relating to all of these scandals du jour because they are so foreign to my experiences.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William D. Zollars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRUCKING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Trucks and Trucking

COMPANY: YRC WORLDWIDE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YRC Worldwide

TICKER: YRCW (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (58%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM D ZOLLARS (94%) William D Zollars; Juston Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



559 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: The Struggle Within

BYLINE: By THOMAS B. EDSALL. 
Thomas B. Edsall holds the Pulitzer-Moore Chair at Columbia University. He is a guest columnist this month.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Can the Democratic Party become fully competitive? Is American liberalism dead, the 2006 election a last twitch of life before rigor mortis sets in? The answer to both questions is yes. (More on this next week.)
 For the Democratic Party to revive, major tenets of American liberalism, economic and sociocultural, will have to be discarded. The party can join Studebaker and the Glass Bottle Blowers union, it can trudge along as No. 2, or it can undergo a painful transformation -- without guarantee of success.
To stay in the fight, Democratic leaders will have to acknowledge political realities affirmed by the electorate in 1994 and 2006. Many Democratic constituencies -- organized labor, minority advocacy organizations, reproductive- and sexual-rights proponents -- are reliving battles of a decade or more ago, not the more subtle disputes of today. Public sector unions, for example, at a time of wide distrust of government, are consistently pressing to enlarge the state. For these players, adapting to a re-emergent center will be costly. 
 Democrats won on Nov. 7 by carrying a 59 percent majority of independent, moderate voters angered by the Iraq war and Republican corruption. These voters demonstrated 12 years ago that they can easily turn against Democrats. 
 An example of the reality that Democrats refused to face the last time they had a shot at consolidating power materialized during the fight to pass Clinton's 1994 Omnibus Crime Bill, legislation that sought to burnish the party's justice credentials by increasing the number of felonies subject to the death penalty. Instead, amendments added to win support from the left -- most visibly, $40 million for midnight basketball leagues -- caught fire on conservative talk radio, spread to the establishment media, and soon became a liability. 
 When Democrats bend to the will of liberal interest groups, even in pursuit of laudable goals, the damage to the party's credibility can be devastating. President Clinton succumbed to such pressure, and Democrats in the House and Senate paid the price. Democrats now have a chance to regain public trust, but even a minor miscalculation can push the party off the tightrope. Its House majority is tenuous: 17 of the new Democrats represent districts that voted for Bush in 2004 by at least 54 percent, according to the political scientist Gary Jacobson.
 The public will desert Democrats placing a disputed cultural or spending agenda above the broader public interest. This is especially true at a time of extreme uncertainty: lethal struggle in the Mideast, nuclear proliferation, mounting skepticism toward free trade, and a rising non-marital birthrate -- now at 37 percent -- that concerns moderate voters.
 The potential for an incendiary controversy to engulf the Democratic left has sharply escalated with Web access to each committee and floor vote under new Congressional transparency rules, and the development of aggressively partisan outlets in the blogosphere. An army of conservative media is determined to recreate the political climate so advantageous to the G.O.P. in 1994. At the same time, very liberal senior House Democrats now have vastly enhanced power to add inflammatory provisions to bills moving through their committees (think Rangel and the draft).
 Nancy Pelosi and her closest advisers in the House are more likely to support such radioactive amendments than to serve as guard dogs protecting a slender Democratic majority. The first test of Pelosi's ability to distinguish between broad-based and special interests will be when she decides whether to appoint Alcee Hastings, the once-impeached federal judge, to head the House Intelligence Committee.
 Only two members of the House leadership are intuitively attuned to such problems: Rahm Emanuel, chairman of the Democratic caucus, and Steny Hoyer, the majority leader. But Emanuel has limited influence, and relations between Pelosi and Hoyer are distant at best.
 Still, the vigilance of Hoyer and Emanuel will be crucial to a party whose renewal could easily be stillborn. Congressional leaders are not all-powerful, but they can set the stage for a successful presidential candidate, or lay waste to the center-left, dooming the nominee. 
 The Democratic Party can secure its 2006 gains, but to do so will require abandoning a decades-long willingness to indulge pressure groups on the left that no longer command broad popular allegiance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CRIME RATES (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (74%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); BASKETBALL (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); FELONIES (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) United States Politics and Government; Elections; Election Issues; Ethics; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%) Thomas B Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



560 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Deeper Into the Maelstrom of Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Bombings Kill 144 in Shiite District; Siege at Ministry'' (front page, Nov. 24):
This Thanksgiving, I am grateful to live in a country of relative safety and security. But I am saddened that so many others across the world are not as fortunate. 
 After reading about the deteriorating situation in Iraq, I believe that a continued American occupation will result only in more violence and hatred. I encourage my fellow Americans to demand that we immediately withdraw all troops from Iraq and have those who started this wretched war pay an extra tax for rehabilitating the infrastructure and economy of the destroyed nation. 
 The ''Iraq recovery'' fund should be overseen by an international group of nonpartisan humanitarian organizations that are armed with home-cooked meals, not fighter planes.

Deena Guzder
New York, Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Civilian Death Toll Reaches New High in Iraq, U.N. Says'' (front page, Nov. 23):
 With the exception of the weather this Thanksgiving morning, the disconnect between the Macy's parade on television and the headline on the front page could not have been more apparent nor more grim.
 While Shiites and Sunnis slaughter each other in greater numbers, and Iraqi society slides into deepening chaos, I believe that the burden of guilt falls squarely on the Bush administration, which has not been held accountable for this tragic fiasco.
 The state of denial seems to extend to former President George Bush. ''Ex-President Defends His Son'' (news article, Nov. 23) reports that he ''appeared stunned'' by criticism of his son's foreign policy and retorted, ''This son is not going to back away.'' Never mind that a majority of the American people voted for a change of direction to this immoral war of choice.
 Today I am thankful for the results of the midterm elections so that President Bush's disastrous foreign policy can at least be checked, if not stopped.

Ellen Shire
New York, Nov. 23, 2003

To the Editor:
 Now that we have had the deadliest day and the deadliest month in Iraq, isn't it about time to use the words ''civil war'' instead of ''insurgency''? Or will a civil war break out only after we leave, and will it remain an insurgency until then? 
 The ridiculous semantics and euphemisms of this disastrous war can no longer be ignored. All havoc will break loose if we leave? What exactly is ''breaking loose'' there right now?

Fred Moramarco
San Diego, Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Both conservatives and liberals familiar with just-war theory have argued that justification for the American invasion of Iraq failed on a majority of criteria. One of those is the actual conduct of the war.
 The mounting Iraqi civilian death toll makes clear that the United States, in removing Saddam Hussein, cut off the Hydra's head, allowing a thousand more to grow.
 Now many are saying that while our entry into the war may have been unjust, we cannot leave the country in chaos. That is a denial of reality. The country is in chaos, and further conduct of war has increased the chaos. The numbers of the dead do not lie. The war has now become monstrously unjust.
 The just option is for the United States to declare an immediate cease-fire and put all its effort into a negotiated settlement among all parties, Syria and Iran included. 

Frank K. Flinn
St. Louis, Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 As the body count in Iraq continues to rise, it becomes more obvious that the only way to save Iraqi lives is to remove American troops from that beleaguered country. 
 The number of Iraqis killed in the month of October was 3,709, according to a United Nations report. As of Thursday, the Pentagon has identified 2,860 American service members who have died since the start of the Iraq war. How difficult is it to understand that these death tolls are directly and unequivocally related to the American invasion of Iraq? 
 It would not be ''cutting and running'' to abandon the disastrous prosecution of this war by the Bush administration. It would be the only way to stop the killing of Iraqis and Americans.

Richard Ellis
New York, Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Empty Chair at the Table,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Nov. 23): On May 23, 2004, you published a heart-wrenching letter written by Celeste Zappala, the mother of Sgt. Sherwood Baker, who was killed in Iraq a month earlier. 
 I cut out the letter and taped it to my computer screen so I could think about the cost of this ill-conceived war. I sent copies to friends and relatives who supported President Bush and the war in the hope that a mother's anguish would help persuade them to reconsider their positions. 
 Two and half years later, Mr. Herbert writes that Ms. Zappala's grief is unabated and her pain endures.
 While the debate over withdrawal continues, more soldiers are dying and more mothers will have to face the unbearable pain of losing a child. 
 President Bush and his administration led the country into this fiasco and then failed Sergeant Baker and thousands of other troops with their ineptitude and indifference. It is my hope that the Democratic Congress will hold them responsible.

Cindy L. Harden
Brooklyn, Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert's column would have brought tears to my eyes even if I had not read it on Thanksgiving Day.
 The story of Sgt. Sherwood Baker and his family reminded me of something I first thought of long before the misbegotten invasion of Iraq: we will have wars as long as leaders find it easier to say what they would kill for than what they would die for.

Jonathan J. Margolis
Brookline, Mass., Nov. 23, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); ELECTIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Deena Guzder; George W (Pres) Bush; Ellen Shire; Fred Moramarco; Frank K Flinn; Richard Ellis; Cindy L Harden; Jonathan J Margolis; Bob Herbert; Celeste Zappala; Sherwood (Sgt) Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



561 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Another 'Top This' Week for the Deal Makers 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
PRIVATE equity firms, flush with cash from wealthy institutions and other investors eager for extraordinary returns, snapped up more and bigger companies this week in a burst of takeovers impressive even in a year that is shaping up as a record for mergers. 
 Of the 10 biggest deals ever made, 8 have been announced this year. 
Still, some regulators expressed concern that some of the reforms adopted after a spate of corporate scandals a few years ago may be hobbling Wall Street, and they began reviewing the rules with an eye toward paring some of them back.

BIGGER AND BIGGER -- In the largest leveraged buyout in history, the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm, agreed to buy Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest owner and manager of office buildings, for about $36 billion.
 The deal, in which Blackstone will pay $20 billion and assume $16 billion in debt, eclipses the $33 billion paid earlier this year for HCA, the hospital chain. 
 Equity Office owns 590 buildings with more than 105 million square feet of office space in major metropolitan markets. The real estate tycoon Sam Zell founded Equity in 1976 and built it through dozens of acquisitions worth $17 billion in total.
 The sale comes amid a private equity frenzy that has redefined the size and scope of leveraged buyouts. To name just some of this year's biggest deals, Clear Channel was acquired for about $26 billion; the gas pipeline company Kinder Morgan was bought for $22 billion; and Freescale Semiconductor went for $17.6 billion. 
 Analysts said that the Equity deal opens virtually all real estate investment trusts to takeover offers and that other deals are likely to follow.

COPPER OFFER -- In another unlikely deal, Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold Inc. of New Orleans offered to buy a much bigger competitor, Phelps Dodge, the world's second-largest copper producer, for $25.9 billion in cash and stock.
 If approved by shareholders, the takeover would create the world's biggest copper producer and North America's largest mining company. Mining companies around the world have been buying rivals, seeking a competitive advantage as robust demand from China and other emerging economies has driven up metals prices.
 This year, Phelps Dodge itself tried to buy Inco, a big Canadian nickel miner, as Inco was in the process of trying to buy another Canadian nickel miner, Falconbridge. That $17 billion deal collapsed when Xstrata of Switzerland outbid Inco for Falconbridge. Companhia Vale do Rio Doce of Brazil later acquired Inco.
 Rising stockpiles and signs of economic weakness may soon start to erode recent gains in copper prices.

ALL-STOCK DEAL -- The Nasdaq Stock Market made an unsolicited and unwanted $:2.7 billion ($5 billion) cash bid for the London Stock Exchange, seeking to force the investor-owned British company to accede finally to repeated merger requests.
 Executives at the London exchange reaffirmed their resistance to a merger with the American market. But Nasdaq ratcheted up the pressure by announcing that it had also increased its stake in the London Stock Exchange, to nearly 29 percent. 
 Pressure is growing on all stock exchanges to find partners. Both Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange are seeking European partners in their efforts to expand and to garner more revenue from listings and stock trading overseas.
 Hedge funds have been buying shares in the London Stock Exchange, anticipating that Nasdaq's pressure for a deal will drive up the London exchange's stock price and result in a sale.

WEALTH MANAGER -- Bank of America agreed to buy U.S. Trust, the wealth-management subsidiary of the Charles Schwab Corporation, for $3.3 billion in cash, creating the country's biggest manager of private wealth.
 U.S. Trust, currently the fourth-largest private bank, will be combined with the private bank of Bank of America, now No. 2. These institutions offer personalized advice on investment and estate planning to the growing number of superwealthy Americans.
 The deal is expected to close on March 31.

RETHINKING RULES -- In a speech on the competitiveness of the United States capital markets, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. suggested that a wave of revisions to federal laws and regulations after the Enron and WorldCom scandals had gone too far and that it was time for a reassessment.
 Mr. Paulson said the new rules had improved transparency and accountability at companies and restored investor confidence, but he called for reining in regulations that slow innovation, impose needless costs on investors, and stifle competitiveness and job creation.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is preparing to roll back parts of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the 2002 law that toughened accounting and corporate governance rules.

SLOW GROWING -- Conceding that slumping housing prices are an unexpectedly stubborn drag on the economy, the Bush administration cut its estimate of the economic growth rate this year and pulled back its forecast for 2007.
 The White House's Council of Economic Advisers estimates that the economy will grow by 3.1 percent this year, once the fourth-quarter figures are tallied. In June, before the midterm elections, the council had predicted the economy would expand at a rate of 3.6 percent this year.
 Next year, the council said it expected the economy to grow by 2.9 percent, down from its earlier forecast of 3.3 percent.

HE WON'T DO IT -- What was hatched as a blockbuster example of media-conglomerate synergy -- the promotion of an O. J. Simpson book with an exclusive interview on Fox Television -- evaporated in a storm of criticism from both outside and inside the corporate parent, the News Corporation.
 In the book, called ''If I Did It,'' and the interview, Mr. Simpson was to have said how he might have murdered his former wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald L. Goldman in 1994. He was found not guilty of those killings in a criminal trial, but later lost a civil suit brought by the victims' relatives.
 Critics called for boycotts of advertisers who might sponsor the TV interview on Fox. Several affiliates said they would not broadcast the program, and various bookstores said they might not stock the book.
 The News Corporation must now decide whether to pay Mr. Simpson for the television interviews. He said he had already received -- and spent -- an advance on the book, but declined to say how much it was.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Nov. 18 through Nov. 24:

1. In Web World, Rich Now Envy the Superrich

2. The Kid With All the News About the TV News

3. Armed With Internet Bargains, Travelers Battle High Airfares

4. Not Always Full Speed Ahead

5. Newspapers to Form a Partnership With Yahoo

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. praised accounting rules, but he called for reining in regulations that, he said, slow innovation and impose needless costs on investors. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); DIVESTITURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); NICKEL MINING (87%); MINES & MINING (86%); COPPER MINING (86%); DEREGULATION (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); METALS MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BASE METALS MARKETS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); COPPER MARKETS (68%); BOYCOTTS (60%); SCANDALS (56%); HOSPITALS (53%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Copper, Brass and Bronze; Mines and Mining; Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Banks and Banking; United States Economy; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Murders and Attempted Murders; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Books and Literature; Advertising and Marketing; Boycotts; Corporations; Accounting and Accountants; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); VALE INCO LTD (82%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (82%); VALE SA (81%); KINDER MORGAN INC (54%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Blackstone Group; Equity Office Properties Trust; Freeport-Mcmoran Copper and Gold Inc; Phelps Dodge Corp; Nasdaq Stock Market; London Stock Exchange; Bank of America; Fox Entertainment Group; US Trust Corp

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); FCX (NYSE) (82%); VALE3 (PAR) (81%); VALE3 (BOVESPA) (81%); VALE (NYSE) (81%); 6210 (HKSE) (81%); KMI (NYSE) (54%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (82%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (82%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (82%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (82%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (82%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (82%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (82%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (82%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (82%); NAICS212324 KAOLIN & BALL CLAY MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (73%); HENRY PAULSON (62%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush; O J Simpson; Nicole Brown (1959-94) Simpson; Ronald Lyle (1968-94) Goldman; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (84%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2006



562 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Take Comfort In Mixed Signals

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
WHEN a traffic signal at a busy intersection flashes green and red at the same time, it can be a white-knuckle moment -- unless you stop, look carefully, and make your own considered judgment whether it's safe to proceed. 
 Signals from the economy have been a bit like that lately. The bond market has been predicting a recession while the stock market has been signaling strong growth ahead. And economists are divided. Some are forecasting a nasty downturn in 2007 while others expect the expansion to remain firmly on track. Given these mixed signals, it's wise to spend a little extra effort to figure out what's actually happening. You may find the exercise encouraging. 
First, a bit of history as a guide. This month marks the current economic expansion's fifth birthday, an advanced age that might suggest that a slowdown is coming soon. In the past 25 years or so, though, major structural changes in the economy -- including a shift in emphasis from manufacturing to services, and growing use of information technology to manage inventories and operations -- have lengthened the business cycle. 
 The more proactive approach of the Federal Reserve has also helped. The last two economic cycles lasted 10 years each, much longer than many previous ones. If recent history is a guide, we are in the middle of the current business cycle, with years of prosperity ahead.
 That would be consistent with the conflicting signs in the data and the markets. About midway through a typical business cycle, there is often a shift in the sources of growth -- away from interest-rate-sensitive sectors like housing and autos, and toward others like business investment. But any transition is tricky, and the changeover is not always smooth. 
 A bumpy economic transition seems under way now. Growth has slowed to an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the third quarter from 5.6 percent in the first quarter, as activity in housing and autos has cooled, while business investment hasn't surged. Still, there are good reasons to be optimistic about where this transition will take us.
 For starters, a lot is going right in the economy. The corporate sector is enjoying record levels of cash and strong profits, and the stock market has been climbing. The global economy is humming along, and the outlook for Europe and Asia is upbeat. Crude oil has come down sharply, to less than $60 a barrel from more than $70. And the latest inflation figures are benign. The Producer Price Index fell 1.6 percent in October, with core prices excluding food and energy dropping 0.9 percent; the Consumer Price Index also declined, by 0.5 percent. 
 That isn't all. The capacity utilization rate -- an indicator of production levels in factories and mines -- has begun to drift downward from peak levels, in line with moderate growth and easing inflationary pressures. At the same time, employment is robust, with the jobless rate at 4.4 percent last month. And the Federal Reserve has stopped raising rates, at least for now. 
 Still, the economy faces risks. In the bond market, the yield curve is inverted, a classic sign of trouble. An inverted yield curve occurs when short-term market interest rates are higher than long-term rates, often indicating that investors expect a recession. One possible reason for pessimism is the downturn in the housing market, which could hurt consumer spending. That, in turn, could cause corporate America to cut back its spending and expansion plans, sending the economy into recession -- or so it is feared. (Consumer spending, though, has held up well so far, probably because of falling gas prices and the strong labor market.)
 The housing slump's effect on construction has been significant. According to government figures, construction of new single-family homes and apartments dropped to an annual rate of 1.486 million units last month; that is down 14.6 percent from September, and is the lowest level in more than six years. Home builders like Beazer Homes and Toll Brothers have said they still don't see any bottom in the market. 
 But even if the housing slowdown hurts consumer spending in the coming months, economists like Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com doubt that it will derail the expansion. ''The only way the housing correction can undermine the economy is if it first infects financial markets,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''For that to occur we'd need a financial event which hurts global investor confidence or the banking sector directly, and becomes a global problem.'' 
 It is possible to imagine such a situation. ''Many people including myself believe that the market is underpricing risk,'' said Martin N. Baily, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute, a research organization based in Washington. ''It looks like some institutions may be taking on more risk than they realize, and if there are defaults or asset price declines then they may get into trouble and it might spread.''
 In particular, some economists have been concerned that as the housing market softens, lenders have issued mortgages to people who can't afford to pay them back. If that results in a large number of defaults and losses, the fast-growing market in subprime mortgage-backed securities could be undermined. 
 ''Credit risk is increasingly being borne by securities holders, in particular those holding collateralized debt obligations,'' said Jonathan Reiss, the principal of Analytical Synthesis, a research group based in New York. ''The result is that the originators of the loan are much less exposed to the consequences than they were even, say, five years ago, and there's a feeling that somehow this could all end badly.''
 BUT Mr. Reiss and others, while appreciating the risk of a financial market crisis, are not predicting one. What's more, it's hard to figure the economic consequences of a financial crisis. The last major one, which began with the Asian crisis in 1997 and culminated in the near-collapse of Long Term Capital Management in 1998, didn't derail the economic expansion of the '90s. And even the combination of a bursting stock bubble and Sept. 11, 2001, caused only a brief setback for the overall economy.
 So, at the moment, cautious optimism seems the most sensible approach. Mixed signals from the markets and divided opinions from the experts may be unsettling, but they are consistent with the prospect of a long stretch of prosperity ahead. Perhaps we shouldn't really worry until all the signs begin to point the same way.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Busy Factories''Capacity utilization -- an indicator of production levels in factories and mines -- has generally risen during the economic expansion, though it has drifted lower since August.NOV. 2001Current economic expansion beginsGraph tracks capacity utilization rate from 2000 to August 2006.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INFLATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); BONDS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); STATISTICS (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%) United States Economy

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



563 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2760 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Too Good to Be True

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
AS the red-hot California real estate market sizzled in recent years, National Consumer Mortgage looked like just another residential mortgage company successfully riding the boom. It had lush offices in downtown Orange; the former baseball great Steve Garvey promoted its products in radio spots; and its founder, Salvatore Favata, a former local baseball hero himself, lived in a $1.7 million mansion in tony Yorba Linda and zipped around in a Mercedes roadster. An annual ''Favata Fest'' at the founder's home featured live music and photo ops with Mr. Garvey.
 The little mortgage company was also ambitious. N.C.M. ran an investment arm that offered high-yielding notes to preferred clients, promising to use customers' funds to make short-term, high-interest loans to individuals and companies that needed money quickly. For customers like Bryan F. Downey, a 41-year-old father of three, it was a tantalizing pitch. Mr. Downey had a $125,000 inheritance that he wanted to put to work, and his younger brother had already invested his inheritance with N.C.M. 
In April 2005, Mr. Downey invested the entire $125,000 in N.C.M. notes guaranteeing annual interest payments of 12.5 percent for two years. After the contracts were signed, Mr. Downey recalls, Mr. Favata, 46, tan and trim, glided into the conference room, which had a view of Angel Stadium, nearby in Anaheim. Mr. Favata greeted him like an old friend and shook his hand, saying, ''Welcome to the family.'' It's a relationship Mr. Downey now wishes he could disown. 
 Earlier this spring, Mr. Downey, along with more than 200 others living mostly in California and Colorado, found out they were victims of a long-running Ponzi scheme that pulled in about $30 million before N.C.M. sought bankruptcy this spring, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission civil complaint and filings in a federal criminal case, both filed in United States District Court for the Central District of California in Santa Ana. Rather than using the money to make loans, authorities say, Mr. Favata wagered away about $10 million of it in Las Vegas and plowed through much of the rest in his business dealings and lavish lifestyle.
 The N.C.M. scheme, of course, is hardly novel. It is not even all that big by recent standards. But it bears all the hallmarks that have made financial scams possible for generations: naive trust, a speculative market offering seemingly easy riches, and gilded lures hitched to people's unending desire to keep up with the Joneses. So why is it that year after year, century after century, certain people fall for financial dodges, regardless of their provenance? 
 ''You would think living in an information age it would be easier for people to sort out the fact that these schemes exist,'' says James H. Burrus, assistant director with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Washington. ''But so much information is available and coming at people at different ways that the fraudsters are much better at adapting to the environment to defraud the victims out their money.
 ''People believe their next-door neighbor is investing in property, flipping it and getting rich quick,'' Mr. Burrus added. ''Everybody seems to be doing it. Fraudsters take advantage of those types of cycles.''
 But con artists don't use greed alone. Analysts say a variety of factors come into play when scams are afoot, many of which revolve around a fear of financial and emotional vulnerability -- concerns about not having saved enough to send your children to college; the isolation and loneliness of the elderly; the stress that accompanies career changes; or the loss of a loved one. 
 MONEY, especially fast money, offers a buffer of sorts in an uncertain world. And con artists are only too happy to wear the guise of the market sage or guardian angel.
 ''The best scams start with a kernel of truth that are ripped right out of the headlines,'' explained Joseph P. Borg, director of the Alabama Securities Commission and president of the North American Securities Administrators Association. ''Oil prices are up. There's a war in Afghanistan and Iraq. Tainted spinach. All of these can spawn frauds.''
 Faced with the opportunity to invest on the ground floor of something completely plausible and, better yet, exclusive, some jump in with both feet. ''It's a combination of greed and a feeling of, 'If somebody is going to make money, why not me?' '' Mr. Borg said.
 The inner workings of the N.C.M. scheme, which snared wealthy professionals as well as retirees on fixed incomes, suggest that the common perception that only the elderly, less sophisticated or less well-off investors can be duped may be flawed -- that a large cross-section of society can be swindled out of large sums. 
 Mr. Favata used existing investors, to whom he was faithfully making interest payments, to recruit their friends and family members. The promised returns were not so outsize as to raise the suspicions of more sophisticated investors. Payments, which came monthly or quarterly, lulled many into believing that their investments were safe and solid -- at least for a while.
 ''They were really slick in how they presented themselves, how they looked, even where the building was located,'' recalled Mr. Downey, who attended college for two years and now licenses consumer products for a private company. ''They looked like they were making lots of money and that they had lots of good investors.''
 Mr. Favata, who struck a plea deal with prosecutors in the federal district court in Santa Ana, declined to comment. ''Mr. Favata has fully accepted responsibility for his actions,'' said his lawyer, Nathan J. Hochman, from Beverly Hills. ''He is completely cooperating with federal and state authorities and will devote the rest of his life toward paying back the people he has taken money from.'' 
 Regulators have not accused Mr. Garvey of wrongdoing, and he does not appear to have invested in the scheme. Messages left for him with his agent were not returned.
 Experts say that for those caught up in financial scams, especially schemes similar to the one Mr. Favata has acknowledged engineering at N.C.M., the early stages are exhilarating and therefore magnetic. Indeed, until the moment investors finally absorb the fact that they may have been duped and their money gone forever, speculating on a ''sure thing'' has all of the warm and fuzzy benefits of a freewheeling joy ride. 
 In its purest form, being involved in a bogus get-rich-quick scheme is like a trip to Disneyland, says Anthony Pratkanis, a psychology professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and co-author of ''Weapons of Fraud: A Source Book for Fraud Fighters.'' Professor Pratkanis equates being taken in by a fraud to riding the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction. 
 ''You're experiencing the ride, singing, 'Yo ho ho! It's a pirate's life for me,' but you never see any of the trappings of the ride itself,'' he said. ''Criminals call it, 'putting the victim under the ether.' ''
 In other words, once they have taken the bait, victims typically stop asking questions. While there are various estimates of how many people are taken in by cons and how much money they lose, experts and law enforcement authorities acknowledge that their best guesses are just that. The F.B.I., for instance, believes that more than $1 billion was lost to mortgage fraud last year. While that number seems substantial, experts note that it represents a minute fraction of the $3 trillion in mortgages issued last year. 
 There may never be a comprehensive tally of fraud, in large part because it is one of the most underreported crimes, authorities say. Some victims deny, even to themselves, that they have been defrauded, while others are simply too embarrassed to tell anyone. No demographic group is immune to fraud, and sophisticated con artists tailor their pitches to their audience. 
 A younger victim may be motivated by a rich payday, while the elderly appear to fall for schemes that claim to involve the government or a charity, said Sid Kirchheimer, author of ''Scam-Proof Your Life,'' a book published by AARP.
 ''None of them say they wanted to get rich,'' Mr. Kirchheimer said of the elderly he counsels through his work at AARP. ''They tell me that their grandson wants to go to college and they wanted to help him -- at least that's what they tell me.''
 Fraud operators are also deft at using middlemen to become associated with a community group or religious organization. The authorities label these schemes ''affinity frauds,'' because they take in people who have a common interest.
 ''Whether in a religious group or any other community-based organization, all you may need to do is scam one person very aggressively, in hope that this 'centerpoint' will start peddling the scheme to other members,'' said John Reed Stark, chief of the office of Internet enforcement at the S.E.C. ''The centerpoint may not even profit or be at all complicit in the scheme, but he or she nonetheless becomes an important part of the overall con.''
 ONE investment pitch under investigation occurred in Indianapolis and involved Robert Penn, who owned several property management and real estate businesses and cut a charming figure in the community. Mr. Penn has been accused in a lawsuit -- filed in Marion County Circuit Court in Indianapolis by the mortgage giant Countrywide Financial and other lenders -- of orchestrating a scheme to use straw buyers to file hundreds of fraudulent mortgages worth upwards of $40 million. 
 In a response filed in court, Mr. Penn denied the allegations; he and his lawyers did not return phone calls seeking comment. Countrywide is contending that Mr. Penn and his associates sold it overpriced mortgages they took out in the names of his investors. Federal prosecutors are looking into the allegations.
 Mr. Penn came across as savvy and self-assured, yet always concerned for the well-being of those around him, recall people who worked and invested with him. One of those people was Cynthia K. Hancock, who met Mr. Penn through her former colleagues in 2003. 
 Ms. Hancock, then an aide at an animal research lab at the Indiana University School of Medicine, describes herself as unsophisticated about finance and real estate. ''I don't carry a Coach handbag; I have never had a manicure,'' she said. ''I have just worked all my life and paid my bills. That's why I had such a great credit score. I thought for once my credit score could help me get a little ahead.''
 Ms. Hancock said Mr. Penn told her -- as well as many individuals in rural Virginia, where his sister lived and his mother served as a lay minister to a small congregation -- that their credit scores could help them make money the way rich people do: in real estate.
 To Ms. Hancock and the others who heard the stories of easy money in real estate or read them in newspapers, it was a credible pitch. All they had to do was put their names on multiple mortgage applications, thereby ''investing'' their credit scores, they said Mr. Penn told them. The borrowers saw little downside; they were not asked to put any money down. They said Mr. Penn told them that he and his business associates would do that on each borrower's behalf.
 When some received a check for several thousand dollars, it seemed that the investment was paying off as it was billed. Then, they said, they discovered that they were on the hook for hundreds of thousands of dollars in inflated mortgages taken out on homes in Indiana, some of them in rundown neighborhoods. Ms. Hancock, who worked at Mr. Penn's property management company for a year and a half, owned five homes. Her daughter -- a law student -- was named as the buyer for four homes. All of the homes have been foreclosed on, and Ms. Hancock and her daughter are considering filing for bankruptcy protection.
 IN hindsight, it is easy to see where Mr. Penn's investors made their mistakes: they were hurried through paperwork and did not read what they were signing. No one asked to see the properties they were buying or pressed for confirmation that rents were being collected and mortgages were being paid. And the investors said Mr. Penn also tapped into key vulnerabilities, particularly those among the largely African-American, working-class investor group in Virginia. By investing in real estate, they said he told them, they could start to close the financial gap between them and white middle-class investors.
 Many investors also dropped their guards because Mr. Penn's family, and his mother in particular, were viewed as religious leaders in the area. Spirituality and predatory practices never intermingle, investors believed.
 ''The whole basis of church affiliation is a sense of morality,'' Mr. Kirchheimer said. ''Your natural resistance, your armor will probably be a little less because you are assuming people there are more moral.'' 
 Establishing -- and ultimately violating -- a bond of trust is at the heart of many frauds, whether it comes through a religious affiliation or a longstanding business relationship.
 If there was one person whom Melissa A. Miller of Parker, Colo., thought she could trust, it was Robert O. Bryant, a friend and her insurance agent for 10 years. When Ms. Miller sold her dental practice in 2005, she said, she was not sure what to do with her money. 
 A fairly conservative investor, she said she was skeptical when Mr. Bryant first told her about Mr. Favata's private notes. She talked with her friends in the real estate business as well as her father, who owned rental property and had experience with similar instruments, eventually concluding that the notes were a safe bet because the properties served as collateral. 
 Ms. Miller, 39, and her husband, Sam, an airline pilot, who have three daughters and a son, invested $575,000 in N.C.M. notes. She recruited her father, Dennly R. Becker, and he invested $250,000. Aside from the few interest payments they received, the father and daughter believe that most of that money is lost. 
 ''Yes, I am embarrassed,'' Ms. Miller said. ''I am ashamed that I got my family involved in this. But it could absolutely happen to everybody.
 ''They seemed so trustworthy,'' Ms. Miller said of Mr. Favata and Mr. Bryant, ''which is what got everybody.
 ''They were knowledgeable,'' she added. ''They had every answer to every question you could ask about this scheme.''
 OR almost every answer. John P. Brincko, a management consultant advising the creditors committee in N.C.M.'s bankruptcy, said that none of the investors, to his knowledge, asked to see the deeds of trust that ostensibly backed their investments. Ms. Miller said that she asked to see them several times, but that Mr. Bryant rebuffed her with excuses: the deeds would be available after the loans had been made; he would pick up the deeds when he visited Mr. Favata next; and, just before the scheme collapsed, he said he had forgotten to bring them back from California.
 Mr. Bryant has not been charged with any crime. He did not respond to an interview request and is listed in N.C.M.'s bankruptcy filing as having lost close to $1 million of his own money. 
 In October, Mr. Favata agreed to plead guilty to one count of mail fraud in exchange for a five-year sentence, a $250,000 fine and repayment of more than $20 million to the victims, all of which is still to be approved by a judge. But it is unclear whether the victims will receive much beyond pennies on the dollar. His mansionin Yorba Linda will be sold to pay victims, but he appears to have few other hard assets, the authorities say. The Mercedes roadster and a Lincoln Town Car that he drove, for instance, were leased by N.C.M.
 Brent G. Tabacchi, an assistant United States attorney based in Santa Ana, said the investigation was continuing but that the prosecutors had decided to settle with Mr. Favata because, among other reasons, he turned himself in, gave up his assets and agreed to a restitution plan.
 But for the victims of fraud, there are some losses that can never be repaid.
 ''I lost a lot of faith in human beings -- I will really not trust someone with my money now,'' said Mr. Downey, who regrets losing his father's money. ''He worked hard to become middle class, he left us a nice home that we sold, and we all got taken in by a clown in Orange County.
 ''I foolishly fell for this because I went into their beautiful building that was overlooking Angel Stadium,'' he added. ''They even promised me box seats.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Salvatore Favata, right, who recently agreed to a plea deal involving mortgage investments, with the former baseball star Steve Garvey. Mr. Garvey, who helped promote the Favata firm, was not implicated. (Photo by Tom Keene/LAdigital Photo)(pg. 1)
Bryan Downey at home in Canyon Country, Calif., with his sons Cade, 3, left, and Bryce, 6. He lost an inheritance of $125,000 when he was persuaded to invest the money with National Consumer Mortgage. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)
 Melissa Miller and her father, Dennly Becker, with her son, Jetton, in Parker, Colo. Both lost hundreds of thousands in the N.C.M. fraud. (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BASEBALL (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (85%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MUSIC (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ETHICS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); PONZI SCHEMES (62%) Housing; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Securities and Exchange Commission; National Consumer Mortgage

PERSON: Salvatore Favata; Vikas Bajaj; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



564 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2686 words

HEADLINE: Back to New Orleans, Gently

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS. 
MATT GROSS writes the Frugal Traveler column for the Travel section.

 BODY:
IT was a Friday afternoon in late October, and the narrow lanes of the French Quarter were quiet. Fresh paint -- pale green, robin's egg blue, canary yellow -- adorned the low, tidy Creole cottages, and the wrought-iron railings of town-house balconies shone blackly in the sunlight. The streets were free of litter, the air unpolluted by the musky odor of all-night parties. But as I wandered the beautiful Quarter, one question stuck in my mind: Where was everybody?
 I suppose I already knew the answer. Since Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005, wreaking havoc across Louisiana and Mississippi, fewer than half the 485,000 residents of New Orleans Parish had returned to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives, according to the city's Convention and Visitors Bureau. Even in the French Quarter, which was mostly spared the devastation visited upon neighborhoods like the Ninth Ward, ''For Sale'' signs hung from porch brackets, and on one street, a pickup truck had been abandoned, its hood open, its bed piled high with garbage. 
This emptiness, disturbing and depressing as it was, turns out to be perversely beneficial for visitors -- the city of exuberant indulgence has, almost overnight, become even more affordable. It's a strange kind of affordability, though: Because tourists have yet to return en masse, the budget options sit wide out in the open, just waiting to be picked. Although rates have actually risen slightly, hotel deals still abound, last-minute reservations at hot restaurants are a phone call away and curbside parking actually exists. The Big Easy may no longer feel big, but it's easier than ever. 
 At the same time, the frugal New Orleans experience can weigh heavily on your mind: How can you enjoy yourself when ravaged buildings (and lives) lurk around every corner? In seeking out discounts, are you exploiting the crippled city's economic straits? And can mere tourism really help improve New Orleans's fortunes? 
 I was determined to find out. Joined by my friend Tracy Jo, a punky redheaded poet from Houston, we planned an indulgent, affordable and, yes, ethical weekend in the Crescent City. We began by checking into the Hotel St. Pierre, a compound of former slaves' quarters that had, in the 1960s, housed the New Orleans Jazz Museum. Our second-floor room was clean and basic (except for an elaborate gilded mirror), with a creaky balcony that overlooked a small swimming pool. At $99 a night, it was also the cheapest French Quarter hotel I could find.
 Not that the other options were that much more expensive. For $20 or $30 more, we could have stayed at any of the half-dozen other slave-quarters-turned-hotels, or indeed almost any hotel in the metropolitan area -- the average daily rate was $125.25 in July. 
 That's actually $12 higher than pre-Katrina levels, a rise that the New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau attributes to a 25 percent reduction in the number of rooms and the presence of so many government contractors. Unlike New York City after Sept. 11, there has been no concerted campaign to woo back tourists with discounts. Still, virtually all the hotels had specials starting under $200, even Le Pavillon, the 99-year-old bastion of New Orleans luxury, and the designer W New Orleans.
 No data yet exist on whether tourists are taking advantage of these bargains, but judging from my experience that gorgeous weekend in October, I'd have to guess not. 
 NIGHTS at the St. Pierre were ghostly silent, with few, if any guests, moving through the lobby. At times, the only sign of life in the French Quarter was a lone dog-walker or a television flickering behind French doors. More visitors congregated around Jackson Square, the boardwalk along the Mississippi River, and, of course, the bars of Bourbon Street. But the only time I felt crowded in the French Quarter was in front of St. Louis Cathedral, where about 10 people had gathered to listen to a jazz trio. I instinctively fled, realizing too late that the audience was tiny, the music was good and that, in the new New Orleans, my tourist-trap alarm needed recalibration. 
 My escape route took me down Pirate's Alley to Faulkner House Books, so named because William Faulkner had lived in the yellow town house while writing his first novel, ''Soldier's Pay.'' Several of his first editions sat on the ceiling-high shelves, including ''Absalom! Absalom!'' for $1,750. I asked the employees if they'd lost much stock to Katrina and was met with dismissive smiles -- nothing, they said, had been damaged. I got the feeling I wasn't the first to ask.
 It was eerie, this sense that nothing out of the ordinary had occurred in the French Quarter. But I felt a similar absence of Katrina in other tourist areas. The Garden District, an easy-to-stroll neighborhood of million-dollar Victorians, was in near-perfect shape, and the iron fence surrounding Rosegate, the Greek Revival mansion where Anne Rice once lived, was festooned with fake cobwebs in anticipation of Halloween. 
 Magazine Street, meanwhile, looked like yuppie-bohemian paradise, its six miles lined with po' boy emporiums, makeup shops that looked like art galleries and art galleries that looked like po' boy emporiums. The only signs of Katrina were, well, signs. ''Stumps Removed,'' said one nailed to a telephone pole. ''Houses Gutted,'' read another. ''Road Closed,'' warned a white-and-orange barrier, with ''No Exceptions!'' written in by hand.
 But otherwise, the streets were empty. Magazine Street was positively sleepy on Friday and Saturday nights, though it was obvious why. Every store closed at 6 p.m. While no one could say for certain whether this was a post-Katrina phenomenon, it was clear that stores were not about to extend their hours for a customer base that did not exist. It's a tragic feedback loop that makes it ever more difficult for visitors to return to New Orleans.
 Luckily, the early closing afflicts mostly stores: the restaurants, cafes and bars still stay open into the wee hours, and it was at these establishments that Tracy Jo and I began to find our missing New Orleanians.
 We started at Casamento's, an oyster bar on Magazine Street with fluorescent lights and yellowish tiles that scream no-frills. Maybe it was the neighborhood vibe or the cheap oysters (a dozen raw were $7.80), but the restaurant was completely full and buzzing. We must have arrived early, because while I was powering through beautifully briny oysters, the line grew to reach the door. There appeared to be few tourists among them, and I was guiltily grateful that we had the city to ourselves.
 After dinner, we headed to Le Bon Temps Roule, a down-to-earth bar. In the back, a piano player was jamming modern Dixieland on an upright, accompanied by a percussionist who made use of everything around him: a bucket, a stool, a cardboard Budweiser box. Better yet, an oyster shucker was slicing open shells and doling them out free of charge. Was this, I wondered, a post-Katrina deal to lure back customers? Nope, the manager Laura Vidacovich told me later, free-oyster Fridays have been a Bon Temps tradition for years. In fact, she said, the Bon Temps was operating just as it had before the storm. 
 ''We still have no cover for shows, we still have free oysters,'' she said. ''New Orleanians do not like change. They can barely get away with cleaning up the corrupt court system, let alone changing the prices at bars.''
 New restaurants, too, are coming to life. Saturday night, we went to Cochon, a casual restaurant in the warehouse district that Donald Link and Stephen Stryjewski opened last April, after a six-month Katrina delay. In line with the blond wood and picnic-chic decor, the menu, offers haute renditions of Cajun and Southern classics -- none of which cost more than $19.
 But while Mr. Stryjewski and Mr. Link had expected most of their clientele to come from the many nearby hotels, the city's sagging tourism has turned Cochon into a haven for locals. When we arrived around at 7:15 p.m., having easily made a reservation that afternoon, every table was occupied by couples and families.
 And no wonder: the food was excellent. I started off with a plate of fried boudin, the ubiquitous blood sausage, as well as fried chicken livers served with a spicy-sweet pepper jelly and refreshing shock of mint leaves. I followed it with the juicy Louisiana cochon (a pan-seared pulled-pork patty) and a perfect slice of lemon-buttermilk pie. Tracy Jo, a vegetarian, ordered a slew of non-meat sides but had to shush our waitress when she tried to explain that the lima beans and collard greens might contain, um, meat. She gobbled them up in blissful ignorance. Along with a couple of Sazerac cocktails, a potent New Orleans special, dinner for two came out to $107 -- not bad for such a memorable feast. 
 Afterward, we drove to the nearby Circle Bar, which occupies a Victorian house that even pre-Katrina was said to have looked run-down. Now, in the shadow of the multicolored Hotel Le Cirque, it appeared ready to topple, though not before Tracy Jo and I sipped cheap bourbon, listened to 1960s garage rock and discovered that our waitress from Cochon had sat down next to us. 
 She was, we learned, Adrienne Lamb, a poet and -- big surprise -- blogger who'd been chronicling her post-hurricane travails on afterkatrina.blogspot.com. As she told us about her ups and downs -- her flight to Florida, her anger and depression, her sudden divorce -- I was reminded of the way New Yorkers like myself still find ourselves recounting our Sept. 11 experiences to total strangers. Now, though, I was on the receiving end, feeling conflictedly creepy for my curiosity.
 There is, however, an antidote to feeling such guilt: volunteering -- it's like Lenten repentance after Mardi Gras. Tracy Jo and I woke up early Saturday morning and drove through the upper Ninth Ward, which, although it escaped the wreckage of the lower Ninth, was in abysmal shape. Everywhere we looked were caved-in roofs, houses ready to collapse and porches spray-painted with codes like ''TFW,'' short for Toxic Flood Water. 
 We arrived at 4000 North Roman Street, where a compound of small houses in cheery blues, yellows, greens, reds and browns rose from a wide field of grass. This was the Musicians' Village, a Habitat for Humanity project where we'd arranged to volunteer for the day, figuring that our labor would help as much as the dollars we were spending elsewhere.
 We were not alone in our thinking: the village had 250 volunteers that morning -- less, the organizers said, than they'd typically gotten on summer weekends. They split everyone into groups; I chose one where we'd be hammering nails, which is about the extent of my carpentry skills. 
 Twelve of us hopped in the back of a pickup and drove across the field to the worksite, a bare foundation of sand and cinderblocks reinforced by 35-foot pilings driven into the soft, damp soil. Under the direction of Ken Francois, the crew boss, we got to work building a floor system. First we laid a frame of 6-by-6's atop the cinderblocks, and then filled it in with load-bearing joists.
 By half-past ten, my hammer-bearing right hand was blistering, but I didn't really care. It was a beautiful day and I got to meet my fellow volunteers. Some, like me, had come from New York City to tour Katrina-affected regions and were doing what they could to help. Others, like Kevin, a burly, bearded pediatrician, lived in New Orleans and were intent on resurrecting their city. Then there was Debra, a young woman with a sweet smile and 6-year-old son, who was hoping to live in this very house.
 We banged and banged all day, and my aim and technique slowly improved. At one point, no-nonsense Ken came over, inspected my work and said, ''That's a nice, tight join.'' I'd never felt so proud. When we finally broke for lunch -- provided free by Loaves and Fishes -- I devoured my peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich, hard-boiled egg and packet of Fritos with a hunger that comes from satisfying hard labor.
 The workday ended at 2:30 p.m., and we returned to the St. Pierre with not only a sense of accomplishment but also a music tip: Kevin said that Frenchmen Street, just outside the Quarter, was his favorite spot for bands, and was livelier and less touristy than spots along Bourbon Street.
 AND so that night, we headed to Frenchman Street, where there was easy parking and a bona fide crowd of revelers. They flowed up and down the street, some in scanty pre-Halloween costumes, others in jeans and T-shirt. A fair number were spilling from yuppie-free, charmingly grimy bars like the Spotted Cat and d.b.a. We paid a $5 cover at Kevin's pick, d.b.a., bellied up to the bar, ordered a pair of Dead Guy ales and turned our attention to the small stage.
 A local band called the Tin Men were playing a vaguely familiar cover of Led Zeppelin's ''Immigrant Song.'' The trio was comprised of a singer-guitarist, tuba player and Washboard Chaz, named after the instrument hanging on his chest. The version rocked, but when their set was over, we realized we'd been up 18 hours straight, finished our too-sweet ales and called it a night.
 We awoke Sunday morning at the reasonably late hour of 9, had a nice brunch of eggs Dauphine (eggs Benedict with country ham and fried green tomatoes) at a sunny nearby cafe, Eat, and set off in search of the grave of Marie Laveau, the fabled voodoo queen. A beautiful, powerful black woman in pre-Civil War New Orleans, Laveau remains a figure of legend and mystery today -- she's appeared as a character in everything from blues tunes to Marvel Comics. Her tomb is a pilgrimage site. (Her reputed tomb, anyway: A new Laveau biography disputes many of the myths of her life -- and death.) 
 The tomb was a few blocks away from our hotel, near the center of St. Louis No. 1 Cemetery, the oldest in the city. But we took our time, since wandering the cemeteries of New Orleans is such a pleasant (and cheap) way to spend a Sunday morning. The aboveground crypts are marvelous reminders of the city's past, topped with marble statues, the brass plates etched with names like Joachim A. Bermudez and Onesiphore St. Amand.
 Laveau's supposed crypt, however, is just a simple white block covered with triple X's inscribed by devotees. Before the crypt were gifts they'd left: a candle, a guitar pick, Mardi Gras beads, a hollow tin cat, a scattering of small change and a slip of paper. Tracy Jo picked up the paper, unfolded it and showed it to me. Written in a child's shaky hand was this request: ''Please help me at school.'' I added a quarter to the pile and hoped that the voodoo queen -- or someone, anyone -- was listening.

FRESH BEIGNETS AND HOT COFFEE

WHERE TO STAY
 Hotel St. Pierre, 911 Burgundy Street, (800) 225-4040; www.hotelsaintpierre.com. 

WHERE TO EAT & DRINK
 Cafe du Monde, the frill-free standby for cafe au lait and fresh-from-the-fryer beignets, open 24 hours; 1039 Decatur Street, (504) 525-4544; www.cafedumonde.com.
 Casamento's, 4330 Magazine Street, (504) 895-9761; www.casamentosrestaurant.com.
 Circle Bar, 1032 St. Charles Street, (504) 588-2616; www.members.cox.net/circlebarnola.
 Cochon, 930 Tchoupitoulas Street, (504) 588-2123; www.cochonrestaurant.com.
 d.b.a., 618 Frenchmen Street, (504) 942-3731; www.drinkgoodstuff.com.
 Eat, 900 Dumaine Street, (504) 522-7222.
 Le Bon Temps Roule, 4801 Magazine Street, (504) 895-8117.
 The Spotted Cat, 623 Frenchmen Street, (504) 943-3887.

WHERE TO SHOP
 Faulkner House Books, 624 Pirate's Alley, (504) 524-2940; www.faulknerhousebooks.net.
 The New OrleansSchool of Cooking, 524 St. Louis Street, (504) 525-2665, www.nosoc.com, carries everything you need to replicate Creole cooking at home, including the hard-to-find line of Cajun Power hot sauces. 

WHAT TO DO
 Habitat for Humanity, 7100 St. Charles Avenue, (504) 861-2077, www.habitat-nola.org, takes volunteers Tuesday through Saturday, and can arrange discounts on hotel stays and rental cars.
 St. Louis No. 1 Cemetery, corner of North Rampart Street and St. Louis Street. MATT GROSS


CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 26 about the revival of tourism in New Orleans misstated the name of a street and a parish. It is Frenchmen Street, not Frenchman. And it is Orleans Parish, not New Orleans.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New Orleans Jazz Vipers play at the Spotted Cat, a nightclub on Frenchmen Street. The stricken city's legendary night life is far from silenced, and restaurants and bars stay open into the early hours of the morning. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Royal Street in the French Quarter
oysters at Casamento on Magazine Street
Habitat for Humanity volunteers build new houses for musicians
a house washed off its foundation in the Ninth Ward
the Circle Bar
 riding through the French Quarter on a quiet morning. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pgs. 8, 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SLAVERY (76%); HURRICANES (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); TOURISM (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); WEATHER (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%) Travel and Vacations; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%)

PERSON: Matthew Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



565 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/New Rochelle, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Buildings Grow Taller; Reactions Get Louder

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
THE revolutionary Thomas Paine, who as a resident of New Rochelle provided it with name-dropping rights starting in the 18th century, was the first of many to do so. By the early 1900s, musical-theater lovers in the thousands had learned from a George M. Cohan show that New Rochelle was only ''45 Minutes From Broadway.'' In the 1960s, television audiences by the tens of thousands learned even more about the place, which Rob Petrie commuted to so he could be with his wife, Laura, in ''The Dick Van Dyke Show.'' 
 ''Ragtime,'' by E. L. Doctorow, a former resident, was set here. Cynthia Ozick, another literary lion, lives here; the actor Ossie Davis, who died recently, was a lifelong resident.
But lately, the buzz in New Rochelle has had more to do with real estate titans than artistic ones. Names like Donald J. Trump and Louis R. Cappelli are behind efforts to remake the downtown. And depending on whom you ask, the construction jangling nerves there represents either the rebirth of this city of almost 73,000, or a rejection of the less well off among them. 
 New buyers snapping up luxury condominiums at Trump Plaza couldn't be more pleased with the changes downtown. Caren Polino, 30, and her fiance, Michael Burke, 32, both educators who are buying a one-bedroom, one-and-a-half bath condo there, say they are looking forward to the onset of gentrification, by which they mean cafes, fashionable shops and nightlife. 
 Since they often travel to New York City, they are also pleased that since Cohan wrote his lyrics, the travel time to Grand Central Terminal has been reduced to 36 minutes (even less during rush hour).
 Noam Bramson, the mayor, foresees not only the completion of the residences downtown, but also a realization of plans for developing the Echo Bay section of town along the Long Island Sound waterfront. Three builders have been vying to redevelop the site, over several years, with residences, retailing and public access to the water. The area, which abuts Larchmont, includes some 20 city owned or contracted acres. 
 But on Main Street, in the center of town, things are still bleak. The traffic stops and starts as cars dart around construction sites, police officers slap $100 tickets on double-parked cars, and tempers flare at the stream of red lights that seem timed to halt traffic at every intersection.
 And as rebuilding preoccupies official interest, infrastructure basics like sidewalks show signs of neglect. 
 ''It's all getting to be too much,'' Joseph Russo, a retired grocery store worker and 26-year resident, said one recent afternoon. ''All this development may be good for the big boys, but I don't see how it's going to benefit people like me.''

What You'll Find
 The 11 square miles of New Rochelle cut a swath in a northwesterly direction from the city's shoreline to the borders with Scarsdale and Eastchester.
 In the historically Italian working-class southern section on the Sound, there are apartment buildings, town houses and neighborhoods of single-family homes. Small storefronts and ethnic restaurants line the three main roads crisscrossing the middle of town, where working-class and poorer residents have lately been rubbing elbows with the wealthier new-condo dwellers. To the north are the older suburban neighborhoods, with their large Tudor-style and colonial houses on well-tended lawns.
 Demographically, too, the city is diverse -- more so than many other parts of Westchester County. In the 2000 census, Hispanics made up 20.1 percent of the population and African-Americans 19.2 percent. There is a small but thriving Asian and South Asian population, which according to the census is almost 3 percent. 
 Of the changes taking place downtown, the most noticeable at the moment is the crane atop the 40-story, 187-unit Trump Plaza, which juts up into the sky like a giant thumb and can be seen from several towns away. The building, a Trump-Cappelli venture, is similar to one that the two developers recently completed in downtown White Plains.
 Across Huguenot Street from Trump Plaza, the Virginia-based AvalonBay Communities is building a sister unit to the adjacent Avalon on the Sound, a 24-story high-rise rental tower with 412 units. The $180 million building under construction will have 39 stories and 588 rental units. 
 In all, more than 2,000 apartments and condos are expected to become available in the next five years, including two apartment towers with 371 residences proposed by Cappelli Enterprises as part of its $500 million LeCount Square mixed-use project, also downtown. 
 Elsewhere in the city, there is evidence of many less ambitious projects -- small clusters of new town houses as well as renovations.

What You'll Pay
 The median sales price of a single-family home at the end of October was $715,000, just under the countywide median, which was $716,125 at the end of September, said Kathleen McAteer, manager of Century 21 Wolff's New Rochelle office. 
 A sampling of single-family houses on the market includes a four-bedroom raised ranch for $799,000, a four-bedroom, one-bath colonial for $569,000 and a five-bedroom colonial with three full and two half baths going for $1.85 million. At Trump Plaza, one-bedroom condos like Mr. Burke and Ms. Polino's sell for $500,000 and up, with three-bedroom penthouses going for as much as $2 million. 
 Along Pelham Road, which runs parallel to the shoreline, new three-bedroom town houses at AnnMar Gardens are on the market for $779,000 to $849,000.
 Last week there were 186 homes, 75 condos and 75 co-ops for sale. A house selling for $1.275 million has annual taxes of $19,883; Trump Plaza units selling for $800,000 have a common charge of $1,180 a month and taxes of $5,100 a year.
 As elsewhere, said Ms. McAteer, the housing market is in a downturn. Houses are taking an average of 151 days to sell, she said, adding that some sellers have withdrawn properties rather than reduce prices.
 But concerns about the opposite -- an overheated market -- are being fed by all the construction downtown, which could eventually force residents like Pam and Jose Hernandez to move elsewhere. Mrs. Hernandez, an administrative assistant, said she and her husband, who works for a tree service, have a 2-month-old son. They pay about $1,300 a month for a two-bedroom downtown, but she described it as increasingly hard to find an apartment for that amount. ''Especially with a new baby now,'' she said, ''where would we go?''
 Last spring, the City Council adopted a rule requiring that 10 percent of any new development be affordable housing. But most current projects, planned before the law took effect, will not have to comply.
 Craig King, commissioner of development, said the city wanted to retain lower-income residents. ''We're not looking to drive people out,'' he said. ''We're not interested in becoming a typical Westchester suburb.'' He described New Rochelle's Section 8 housing program as ''vibrant, with 900 families.''

What to Do
 For families with young children, the city's well-kept parks and the Huguenot Children's Library on North Avenue, a branch of the New Rochelle Public Library, are among its best assets, said Michelle P. Maidenberg, a mental health therapist. Dr. Maidenberg and her husband, Eric, an investment banker, live with their three sons -- Addison, 6, Foster, 3, and Wyatt, 1 -- in a six-bedroom colonial north of downtown in an area of homes dating to the 1920s and 1930s. In part, they chose the area because it is close to Beth El Synagogue Center, where they worship. 
 For recreation, the Maidenbergs also frequent New Roc City, a seven-year-old downtown entertainment and retail center with an arcade, movie theater and bowling alley. 
 Restaurant fare has become increasingly varied, with Indian, Chinese, Thai, Mexican and other Hispanic offerings in addition to Italian places like Juliano's on Main Street. Gary Fosina recently opened Mo's New York Grill, and like many other restaurateurs, he is banking on an infusion of residents downtown. 

The Commute
 From the New Rochelle Transit Center downtown, Metro-North Railroad service to Grand Central Terminal takes about 36 minutes, with some express trains making the trip in 32 minutes. Round-trip tickets during peak hours cost $15; monthly tickets cost $163.

The Schools
 There are about 11,000 students in the City School District of New Rochelle in an early childhood center, six elementary schools, two middle schools and a high school. 
 On the SAT's, New Rochelle High school students scored an average of 556 on the critical reading section and 572 on the math. The averages for the state were 493 and 510.
 Of last year's 532 graduates, 67 percent went on to four-year colleges and universities, and 28 percent to two-year colleges. Of those going to college last year, five are at Harvard and eight at Cornell. Yale, Brown, Columbia and Dartmouth each accepted one New Rochelle graduate, said Maggie MacNichol-Skau, a district spokeswoman. 
 The city also has private schools like Ursuline, for girls in Grades 6 through 12, and Iona Preparatory, for 9th- through 12th-grade boys. 

The History
 In 1929, the planning board wrote that New Rochelle was ''at a critical point in its history.'' The city had a ''vibrant downtown full of entertainment and shopping opportunities,'' although the parking shortage was severe, it said. About a decade later, two of the first branch department stores in the country -- Arnold Constable and Bloomingdale's -- moved to town. 
 But during the 1980s, as the suburbs grew, such stores left for outlying shopping centers and the city's fortune's plummeted. It is that decline from which New Rochelle is now trying to recover.

What We Like
 The waterfront is New Rochelle's greatest asset, and developing the Echo Bay area could help return the city to vibrancy. 

Going Forward
 Traffic often snarls on main roads, although Mr. King, the commissioner, cited a study by AKRF Inc., a White Plains consulting firm, suggesting that some congestion was natural in a downtown and even a sign of economic health.


GRAPHIC: Photos: VERTICALITY -- New Rochelle's increasingly muscular skyline is visible not only from Long Island Sound but from neighboring towns like Larchmont.
On the Market: 217 FOREST AVENUE -- This new colonial with five bedrooms, three full baths and two half baths lists at $1.85million. (914) 632-3500
29 SPENCER DRIVE -- This 43-year-old raised ranch has four bedrooms and three baths. It lists for $799,900. (914) 699-1980
 40 SCHLEY AVENUE -- This century-old colonial has four bedrooms and one bath. It lists at $569,000. (914) 633-1507 (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)Map of New York State highlighting New Rochelle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); THEATER (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); SONG WRITING (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (56%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (52%) Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New Rochelle (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



566 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Property Tax Relief? Maybe

 BODY:
New Jerseyans will have to wait awhile longer before they know exactly what they would be in for under the Democratic-controlled Legislature's property tax reform proposal. But the outlines of the plan offer some promising elements for bringing excessive public spending under control. 
 A document of 98 proposals released this month suggests some bold changes, including a 20 percent property tax credit for ''most'' homeowners and a new formula for state school aid that would be based more on the financial and educational needs of students than the wealth of the school district. Many middle-class school districts would get more state aid.
 But there are major hitches in the proposal. For one, legislative leaders are vague about who ''most'' homeowners are or how low their annual incomes would have to be to qualify for the tax credit; last week key Democrats were talking about a sliding scale of tax credits with only homeowners with incomes of about $50,000 or less getting the full 20 percent. 
 There is also the vexing problem of where the money to pay the estimated $1 billion cost of the program would come from, since the state is said to confront a huge structural deficit in the years ahead. Because of this, Gov. Jon Corzine has stopped short of committing himself to any tax credit. 
 Finally, the specifics of the new formula for state school aid still need to be worked out. This is more than a bothersome detail. 
 The proposals for saving money are more concrete. A panel, patterned after the federal military base closing commission, would propose mergers and consolidation of services among the state's 566 municipalities. Unlike the federal commission, however, its recommendations could be overruled by voters. Mr. Corzine is right when he says that legislators must ''think more aggressively'' about consolidating municipalities and school districts. 
 The retirement age of 55 for new public employees except police and firefighters would be raised to 62, and an employee with more than one government job would be limited to a single pension. Defined pension plans would be dropped for elected and appointed officials and part-time employees in favor of 401(k) plans. Dual office holding would be banned for elected officials. Regrettably, none of these worthy provisions would cover officials who currently hold office. 
 In addition, budget increases for various levels of government, including public schools, would be limited to roughly the rate of inflation, and county school superintendents would be given new powers to rein in school costs. But even the plan's most enthusiastic advocates stopped short of predicting that the proposed savings would be enough to finance the cost of the property tax credit, especially after the first or second year. And the state employee unions and other affected lobbies can be expected to use their considerable influence to block or at least water down the proposed spending cuts. 
 Some legislators are looking to a Corzine administration study that might recommend selling the New Jersey Turnpike, Garden State Parkway and other facilities, in that way providing the state with a sudden influx of cash. But it is doubtful whether that would provide the steady stream of revenue that would be needed in future years.
 In the end, legislators will need a lot of backbone if they are to make the big, unpopular cuts in spending that are essential for property taxpayers to get real relief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (85%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); US 401K PLANS (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (62%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MILITARY BASES (50%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



567 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Slots, but No Smokes

 BODY:
Atlantic City is on the verge of doing something the State Legislature would not: stand up to the casinos and ban smoking in the gambling areas. Though willing to defy less-powerful opponents of the ban, like restaurants, legislators specifically exempted the gambling floors of the 13 Atlantic City casinos when they banned smoking in public places seven months ago. 
 Now, however, Atlantic City's council is stepping up to the table, unanimously approving a proposed ban and scheduling a final vote for Dec. 29. Council members said they were moved by testimony from dealers and other casino employees that their health was being ruined by the clouds of smoke blown their way in the close confines of the gambling tables and at the slots.
The casinos can be expected to fight the proposed ban on economic grounds, even though official reports from Delaware and California show that business has actually increased since the gambling halls banned smoking. The Atlantic City council should stick to its guns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SMOKING BANS (90%); GAMING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Gambling; Law and Legislation; Casinos ; Smoking and Tobacco; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



568 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of New Jersey

Trenton Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee. Monday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Commerce Committee. Monday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Transportation Committee. Monday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Economic Growth Committee. Monday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Senate Environmental Committee. Monday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Public Employee Benefits Reform. Monday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.

Atlantic County

Hammonton Rent Control Board. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Hammonton Town Hall, 100 Central Avenue. (609) 567-4300.

Bergen County

Fort Lee Planning Board. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Fort Lee City Hall, 309 Main Street. (201) 592-3727.

Burlington County

Moorestown Economic Development Advisory Committee. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Moorestown Town Hall, 111 West Second Street. (856) 235-0912.
Mount Laurel Zoning Board of Adjustment. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Mount Laurel Municipal Building, 100 Mount Laurel Road. (856) 234-0001, ext. 305.

Essex County

Bloomfield Township Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Law Enforcement Building, 1 Municipal Plaza. (973) 680-4024.
Montclair Township Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. 205 Claremont Avenue. (973) 509-4928.

Hudson County

Bayonne Historic Preservation Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (800) 858-6000.

Hunterdon County

Flemington County Utilities Authority. Tuesday at 2:45 p.m. Hunterdon County Main Street Complex, 71 Main Street. (908) 788-1102.
Flemington Board of Chosen Freeholders. Tuesday at 4 p.m. Hunterdon County Main Street Complex, 71 Main Street. (908) 788-1102.

Mercer County

Princeton Township Committee. Monday at 7 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-5704.
Princeton Housing Board. Tuesday at 5 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 688-2029.
Princeton Environmental Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 921-1359.

Middlesex County

Edison Zoning Board. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Edison Municipal Building, 100 Municipal Boulevard. (732) 248-7249.

Monmouth County

Belmar Borough Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Belmar Borough Hall, 601 Main Street. (732) 681-3700.

Morris County

Morris Township Park Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Park Commission Headquarters, East Hanover Avenue. (973) 326-7600.
Morristown Human Services Advisory Council. Wednesday at 6 p.m. 30 Schuyler Place. (973) 326-7270.

Passaic County

Paterson Board of Chosen Freeholders. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Administration Building, 401 Grand Street. (973) 881-4000.

Union County

Elizabeth Board of Chosen Freeholders. Thursday at 7 p.m. Administration Building, 10 Elizabethtown Plaza. (908) 527-4140.
Elizabeth City Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. City Hall, 50 Winfield Scott Plaza. (908) 820-4131.
Springfield Township Committee. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Township of Springfield Municipal Building, 100 Mountain Avenue. (973) 912-2200.

Warren County

Great Meadows Environmental Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Independence Township Municipal Building, 286 Route 46 West. (908) 637-4830.
Port Murray Township Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Mansfield Township Municipal Building, 100 Port Murray Road. (908) 689-6151.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ZONING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); RENT CONTROL (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); MOUNTAINS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



569 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Pension Envy

BYLINE: By Jon Shure. 
Jon Shure is the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research organization.

DATELINE: Trenton 

 BODY:
IF you work in the private sector and you've watched the health and pension benefits provided by your employer erode to where the phrase ''economic security'' is an oxymoron, maybe you are resentful that other workers have managed to maintain a decent level of benefits.
 Those other workers, of course, work for the government. Not only do they have better health and pension coverage than you do, but your tax dollars pick up the tab. 
No wonder people have pension envy. Or, put another way, no wonder government workers are increasingly becoming scapegoats. 
 What's been happening to worker benefits in the private sector is tragic, if not criminal (and sometimes it is both). But why hasn't it happened to anywhere near such an extent in the case of government workers?
 Some say it is all due to the clout of public sector unions. They are stronger than private sector unions in many areas today, though not stronger than those unions once were. This argument holds that since government doesn't have to turn a profit and it has readily available funds from taxpayers, politicians prefer to meet union demands rather than face the workers' wrath at the polls.
 Whatever the reasons, the reality is that in New Jersey, and the rest of the nation, some hard-pressed workers feel the only way to improve their circumstances is at the expense of other workers. A fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a free-enterprise-loving policy organization in New York City, even put out a book fanning those flames by saying the nation is divided into two kinds of people: taxpayers and ''tax eaters.'' 
 That is an ugly, dangerous characterization, reminiscent of how the white elite of the Old South used to keep itself in power: don't ever let poor whites realize how much they have in common with poor blacks because if the two groups unite, they could take over.
 The new version of this cynical strategy is to encourage private sector workers to think that public sector workers have bloated pensions. The idea is that taxpayers will get so lathered up that they'll have no time to realize how mad they ought to be at their own employers for breaking the social compact. Let them rail at the power of public employee unions acting for their members' collective interests rather than organize among themselves on behalf of their own equally valid interests.
 It's true that public pensions and health benefits cost a lot. Over the past four years, total state employee benefit costs increased by $2.3 billion, to nearly $4.9 billion. The impact of this has been heightened because politicians for too many years simply didn't put into the state budget enough money to cover those benefits. Instead, they cut taxes, borrowed to fill the hole and placed a whopper of a losing bet on stock prices continuing to soar so state investments would cover the shortfall.
 Now, even some politicians are turning the heat on government employees, playing into the easily manipulated frustrations of private-sector workers.
 During the Legislature's debate over the state budget last June, three members called for a 15 percent cut in state worker pay and benefits, displaying charts labeled ''Government World'' and ''Real World.'' One of them, Assemblyman Paul Moriarty, was quoted as saying, ''Trenton is one of the only places where if you leave work at 5 p.m., you've already missed the rush hour.'' 
 There is a need for rational discussion here. Some pension abuses -- for example, workers who get retirement jackpots by working several public jobs over their careers, or who pad hours in late career -- have gone on too long and should be stopped. 
 But the larger issue of what working people are entitled to in our society needs to be considered too. Is one group getting plush benefits at the expense of the other? Or, rather, is it government's responsibility to set an example for what the private sector should do as well?
 If government workers are seen as tax eaters stealing from taxpayers, we all will lose. Public sector benefits will be ratcheted down to the inadequate level of the private sector, and there will no longer be a standard to which to aspire. We'll have chosen the low road of reduced costs and pitifully little security, and after a while no one will be left who remembers a better way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Government Employees

PERSON: Jon Shure

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



570 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Forging a Coffee Chain Just a Few Links Long 

BYLINE: By LOUISE KRAMER. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN Jonathan Rubinstein decided to ditch his career as a talent agent to open a coffee bar in Manhattan, his friends and advisers thought he was making a terrible mistake.
 With a Starbucks on seemingly every corner, how could Mr. Rubinstein hope to compete, let alone make a living? Particularly since he had no experience manning an espresso machine, and had never run a retail business.
But Mr. Rubinstein, 37, who enjoys a great cup of coffee as much as an oenophile savors a fine wine, was convinced that there was enough room for a little guy to make a living selling specialty coffee in New York. It turns out he was right. 
 ''It never occurred to me we would fail, or what if nobody walked in the door,'' Mr. Rubinstein said last week over a cup of Vienna-style drip coffee at Joe, a cafe on Waverly Place in Greenwich Village that he opened in 2003. His recipe is a fanatic devotion to coffee quality and an atmosphere that doesn't feel like a chain. 
 Within a block of two Starbucks shops, Joe draws a steady stream of customers for its lattes and other brews. Employees spend more than three months learning how to make them and must pass tests before they are allowed to run the $14,000 espresso machine. 
 The cafe, with exposed brick walls, 12 round yellow tables for two, and benches out front, has prices comparable to those at Starbucks, a company Mr. Rubinstein studies carefully. A 12-ounce latte costs $3.65. 
 The waits can be long. ''Brutal, but worth it,'' said one young woman who waited 10 minutes to place her order on a recent Saturday. Richard Chateauvert, a regular customer, said he loved Joe's neighborhood feel and the fact that it was a small business. 
 Mr. Rubinstein realizes that ''we're on the verge where we can't accommodate everyone.'' Brisk business has already prompted him to expand to a second cafe, at 9 East 13th Street, and to an outpost in Alessi, an Italian housewares store, at 130 Greene Street in SoHo. Sales are strong. The first two cafes should bring in a combined $1.4 million in revenue this year, Mr. Rubinstein said, and both turned profits within weeks of opening. The business has 10 full-time employees and 25 part-timers.
 Starbucks said it welcomed the competition. ''There is room for many coffeehouses in the marketplace that can meet different customers' needs,'' said a spokeswoman, Valerie O'Neil.
 Although new to coffee, Mr. Rubinstein has an entrepreneurial streak. As a teenager growing up in Cleveland, he founded a summer camp. At Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where he studied psychology, he started a musical theater society. 
 His idea for a coffee business emerged in 2002, when he was working in Manhattan for a talent management firm. Despite the glamour quotient -- clients included Cynthia Nixon of ''Sex and the City'' fame -- he did not see a future dealing with issues like whether the limousine seats should be leather or fabric. He quit his job and ''talked to a million people,'' he said, including a life coach. ''I wanted to find what I would do forever.'' The cafe won out over buying a summer camp on Long Island.
 Mr. Rubinstein had emotional and financial support from his parents. His father, a lawyer, and his mother, a former modern dancer, put up most of the $150,000 it cost to start Joe. His sister, an aspiring opera singer, is a partner in Joe and works with him in the cafes. ''Part of this business was to buy ourselves jobs,'' Mr. Rubinstein said.
 Now, Joe is at a turning point. Mr. Rubinstein wants to open a fourth cafe to take advantage of the buzz he's enjoying, but is having trouble finding a place at a rent he considers affordable. The median retail rent jumped 12.5 percent in Manhattan this year compared with 2005, according to the Real Estate Board of New York. 
 Joe has stiff competition from Starbucks, which now has 170 cafes in Manhattan, as well as from a new crop of coffee connoisseurs who are trying to fulfill their own entrepreneurial urges. Mr. Rubinstein said he recently found an ideal location, also on East 13th Street, only to learn that another cafe was scheduled to open down the block.
 Edward Rogoff, a professor of management at Baruch College, said he saw room in New York for small players like Joe. ''People like local places,'' he said. ''Maybe part of the formula is just not being Starbucks.''
 As Joe itself becomes a chain, Mr. Rubinstein is struggling with how to manage the growth of his business without diluting Joe's charm. He gets frequent calls to sell franchises, but says he wants, indeed needs, to stay small. ''I have to go to every store two times a day or I go nuts,'' he said. ''At some point, we will stop growing and just work on bettering and perfecting what we do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: THREE CAFES AND COUNTING -- Jonathan Rubinstein at Joe, a cafe on Waverly Place that he opened in 2003. He has expanded to two more sites, and he wants to find a fourth. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); RETAILERS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (71%); WINE (70%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%) Restaurants; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Coffee

ORGANIZATION: Starbucks Corp

PERSON: Louise Kramer; Jonathan Rubinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



571 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; My Pay and I; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: For Public Officials, a Pocketbook Issue

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
ANYONE who has gone without a raise for a while might understand the feeling members of the New York City Council had when -- after seven years without a raise -- they asked for a 25 percent pay increase this month.
 But very few of us ever will ever have a boss who is so sublimely empathetic, so on the same page, as it were. Their boss, of course, was themselves. And the boss said yes. If Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg goes along, as expected, their annual salaries will jump to $112,500 next year, from $90,000, with no restrictions on their outside earnings. 
 As it happens, the City Council's raise was part of an economic boomlet this year for public officials and administrators around the country, which, for obvious reasons, came with very little fanfare.
 In January, the Los Angeles City Council voted itself a 13.5 percent raise (retaining its title as the highest-paid legislature in the country, at $170,000 per head, which is more than members of Congress get). The Boston City Council gave itself a 16.6 percent raise in May. In Fresno, Calif., council members awarded themselves a 48 percent raise; in Austin, Tex., they took 28 percent. 
 In Washington, D.C., a bill introduced this month by council members to give themselves a 51 percent raise, to $140,000 from $92,530, was withdrawn after some public grousing and replaced with a more modest, $30,000 proposal, or 32 percent raise, which is now being considered.
 In a similar spirit of public largess, the board of the New York City public library gave the library's chief executive, Paul LeClerc, $800,000 in compensation last year, representing a 38 percent raise over his previous year's package.
 These are princely slices of pie in any economic environment. They are majestic in a time when wages and benefits for most Americans, excluding Wall Street traders, C.E.O.'s and celebrity divorce lawyers, have been going down. The Labor Department says the median hourly wage has declined 2 percent since 2003, adjusted for inflation.
 So what gives -- or to use a less freighted term, what seems to be happening here?
 Elected officials and top administrators argue that their public jobs are demanding, full time and, while fulfilling in the broadest social sense, nowhere near as well-compensated as jobs of comparable responsibility in the private world. Speaker Christine C. Quinn said, ''I have never seen a legislative body which works harder than the New York City Council.''
 And if legislators have the power of their own purses, that power can cut both ways. In suburban Nassau County, one of the highest-taxed places in America, lawmakers who oversee a $2.5 billion county budget have trembled and retreated every time one of their members has proposed raising their $39,500 annual salary. As a result, lawmakers have not seen a raise in 16 years.
 Public watchdog types, on the other hand, are less impressed with the they-work-hard-for-the-money argument.
 ''One of the things I see happening is the commercialization of public office-holding,'' said Gary Ruskin, director of the Congressional Accountability Project, a Washington-based nonpartisan group. ''We live in a time of hysteria about money. It's bound to affect the way people think about public service. At a certain point, pay raises are linked to the decline of democracy. Good people don't work just for the money. They do it for the mission of public service.''
 There are of course risks involved for public officeholders that do not apply to, say, the average C.E.O. of a Standard & Poor's 500 company who received $13.5 million in total compensation last year, representing a 16 percent raise over the year before, according to Executive Paywatch, a Web site operated by the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 ''Voters don't like it, and pay raises for elected officials have historically been a very sore spot,'' said Craig Holman, a lobbyist for Public Citizen, a watchdog and consumer advocacy group. In 1816, two-thirds of the members of Congress were voted out of office after they replaced their $6 per diem pay with an annual salary of $1,500 (among other insults to the public's sensibility during that term was the British sack of Washington).
 It was perhaps that primal memory in their DNA that led the Congress to enact a law in 1989 that grants members automatic cost-of-living raises each year, Mr. Holman said. No vote is necessary. They vote only if they want to forgo the raise, which has happened five times in the last 16 years. 
 Automatic pay increases, meanwhile -- including one accepted in June -- have increased the base salary of Congress members to $168,500.
 ''Considering the fact that after 5 or 10 years the vast majority of congressmen will go on to make millions as lobbyists, it is unseemly that these people give themselves raises every year,'' said Chris Edwards, an economist with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group based in Washington. ''Maybe if they tied it to some measure of performance. In the private sector, people don't get raises every year.''
 As unappealing as self-administered pay raises like those of the city councils in New York, Boston, Los Angeles and Washington might be, public advocates agree that they are far less troubling than the automatic kind enjoyed by Congress and by a small but growing number of local legislatures, like the one in King County, Wash., which includes Seattle, where legislators who receive $110,000 annually recently adopted measures to guarantee themselves automatic 3 percent annual raises.
 Apparently the ''invisible hand'' theory, coined by Adam Smith to describe the process whereby entrepreneurs acting in their own interest inadvertently, or invisibly, serve the common good, does not apply here.
 ''Transparency is very important to the process,'' said Mr. Holman of Public Citizen. ''The less of it there is, and the more money there is involved, the more it suggests that we are being represented by people who are not like us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hard Sell -- The speaker of the New York City Council, Christine C. Quinn, has defended raises for her colleagues, while in Washington, D.C., Councilman Vincent B. Orange Sr., below, withdrew a plan for a 51 percent pay raise. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); COUNTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POLITICS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); LIBRARIES (64%) City Councils; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Wages and Salaries; United States Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



572 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants at Home

BYLINE: By Nancy Foner. 
Nancy Foner, a professor of sociology at Hunter College and the Graduate Center at City University of New York, is the author of ''In a New Land: A Comparative View of Immigration.''

 BODY:
MUCH of America is angry about undocumented immigrants. Congress recently passed legislation to create a 700-mile fence on the border with Mexico. In Arizona, vigilante-like Minutemen have staked out the border to prevent illegal aliens from crossing into the United States. Voters in Arizona just approved a ballot measure to change the state Constitution to deny bail to illegal immigrants arrested for serious crimes.
 And yet, here in New York City, government officials reassure immigrants that no one will question their status when they seek care at the city's public hospitals. What makes this city such a relatively friendly place for the undocumented? 
First, of course, there's no Mexican border. In Arizona, arrests for illegal crossings now run at more than half a million a year. In New York, the undocumented have entered more quietly -- and, by and large, legally. The majority arrived with valid documents at the airport and became illegal by staying beyond their visa's expiration.
 But geography is only one small part of the story. New Yorkers are used to immigration. Throughout the 20th century, the proportion of immigrants in New York City was 20 percent or more in all but one census year (1970), and even then it stood at 18 percent. The increase in the immigrant population in recent decades has been gradual, unlike the sudden spurt since the 1990s that has made undocumented immigration an issue in many other places. The immigrant population of Phoenix grew 428 percent from 1980 to 2000, compared with a 71 percent rise in New York City.
 A remarkable 60 percent of New Yorkers are immigrants or the children of immigrants. Although the vast majority of the city's 2.9 million immigrants are legal residents, it's a good bet they have at least one friend or relative who is not. This makes them more sympathetic to undocumented immigrants than residents of most other American cities and towns, where the proportion of immigrants and their children is much smaller.
 In any case, only about one in five of the city's immigrants is undocumented. In Arizona and many other Rocky Mountain and Southern states, more than 40 percent of the foreign-born are undocumented.
 Moreover, in Arizona, as in 29 other states, Mexicans are by far the largest immigrant nationality -- a whopping two-thirds of all immigrants in Arizona in 2000 as against only 4 percent in New York State and New York City. Because Mexicans are among the least educated immigrants as well as most likely to be here illegally, in states like Arizona undocumented status has come to be associated with poverty, low skills and demand for services.
 This is less so in New York City, where only a little more than 10 percent of undocumented immigrants are Mexican (others come from Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Europe and South America). Not only is undocumented status not associated with one nationality, it is also not as clearly linked with low levels of education and skills as it is in cities where Mexicans predominate. A fairly high proportion (about a quarter) of immigrant New Yorkers have college degrees -- and some of these people are undocumented.
 It's important, of course, not to get too carried away with an image of New York as a haven for the undocumented. In New York, as elsewhere, such immigrants often end up in low-paid, unpleasant jobs that nobody else wants. 
 There's plenty of racial and ethnic prejudice here, too. Many New Yorkers do not support legalization programs, and some make invidious distinctions between today's undocumented and their own grandparents and great-grandparents who arrived in an era when Europeans entered without visas or quotas.
 Still, there are no Minutemen in New York. And it is hard to imagine the City Council considering a bill that would deny bail to the undocumented. 
 Given the city's growing number of immigrant and second-generation voters, no major New York political figure, or aspiring political figure, is likely to engage in immigrant-bashing or to target the undocumented. This didn't happen in the last few decades, even in times of economic downturn. And because of New York's history and the composition of its population, it will most likely go on welcoming immigrants, documented and undocumented alike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (76%); BALLOTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); BAIL (71%); CENSUS (68%); HOSPITALS (55%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: Nancy Foner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%) New York City; Arizona 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



573 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Failing Science

BYLINE: By Ellen V. Futter. 
Ellen V. Futter is the president of the American Museum of Natural History.

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, known as the nation's ''report card,'' announced the results of recent science testing of American fourth and eighth graders in urban school districts. 
 The results are frightening. According to the report, 43 percent of American eighth graders do not have a basic understanding of science. In New York City, nearly two thirds of eighth graders do not have the skills to understand scientific principles or reasoning -- nor can they read basic charts or follow along with simple experiments.
These results are not an aberration. A large percentage of America's science teachers have not been given sufficient training in the fields they teach, and many schools lack the equipment and laboratories necessary to teach science. 
 In the past three years, New York City's Teaching Fellows have been leaving schools in substantial numbers after only a year or two of teaching. Among the most frequently cited reasons are complaints about the inadequacy of teacher education programs and the lack of resources for retaining and empowering new teachers. 
 Inadequate training leaves a mark in the classroom. Too often science class is about memorizing facts and does not mirror the truly exciting detective work of using scientific methods and tools to observe, collect and analyze natural phenomena. As a result, too few of our children are stimulated to pursue study or careers in these key fields. 
 This has long-term consequences. As the need for professionals in science, technology, engineering and mathematics--the so-called STEM fields-- grows, we are falling behind in producing them. In 1966, United States, citizens and permanent residents accounted for nearly 84 percent of the doctoral degrees granted in these fields by American universities. By 2004, their share had fallen to less than two thirds. Adding to the drought, minorities and women continue to be poorly represented in the STEM fields.
 These problems are too serious for our schools to shoulder alone. Institutions outside the school system can play an important role in training America's scientists and citizens. Science and natural history museums and similar institutions, like botanical gardens and zoos, are plentiful in New York City and its suburbs. Many already have scientific staff, collections, training and research laboratories -- even well-appointed classrooms. 
 One innovative example here at the American Museum of Natural History is Urban Advantage, a consortium of eight New York institutions that works with 7th and 8th-grade public school classes citywide to improve science learning through educational visits and programs.
 Other public and private institutions, including hospitals, universities and industry, must also be brought into the educational fold. Indeed, every sector of New York and the nation should be considered a resource -- and we should enlist them all to address the dire state of science education. These institutions can supplement school curriculums, train science teachers and create the kind of publications, programs, and products that bring excitement to learning. 
 Two realities underscore this crisis. First, many of the most pressing issues we face are scientific. We are challenged to safeguard our environment, control infectious diseases, manage scarce natural resources, anticipate and guard against catastrophic climate events and use technology to empower, rather than subject, humanity. The stakes are incalculably high. 
 Second, in science, to stand still is to fall behind. Throughout the latter half of the 20th century, the United States was an undisputed world leader in science and technological innovation. But if the poor science achievement of our students continues, we will fall far behind nations in Europe and Asia -- not just in science but in the global economy that is driven, in part, by scientific innovation. Americans often lament the outsourcing of jobs; we have already begun inadvertently outsourcing our scientific leadership.
 With support from elected officials in the City and the State of New York, a biotech corridor is being developed in the state. This will enable New York to attract and nurture world-class research and innovation. It also creates the potential of using these resources in support of public schools and science education in general.
 Scientific research and education are vital to our democracy and our future. But the importance of science goes well beyond borders or nations. The advancement of science, as both a national and a global enterprise, is integral to the human endeavor. Without it, we cannot thrive and may not survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HISTORY (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Science and Technology; Computers and the Internet; Engineering and Engineers; Mathematics

PERSON: Ellen V Futter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



574 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: READING FILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: China, in Search Of Imagination 

 BODY:
In ''Postcards From Tomorrow Square'' in the December issue of The Atlantic, James Fallows describes the inequities and shortcomings in China's education system. 
 Despite a memorization-and-exam system as onerous as any country's, South Korea is enjoying a vogue right now as a source of creativity. Its cartoons, its televised soap operas, its clothing fashions, even its Samsung mobile phones are popular in both China and Japan. South Korea's recent pizzazz, however it has been achieved, has only intensified longstanding and often voiced dismay in China and Japan over how to make their students not just technically competent but also ''imaginative'' and ''creative.'' 
The distress is particularly acute in China, because, contrary to what most Americans would assume, the Chinese government spends so little on education, and so much of what it spends is concentrated on a handful of elite schools. Overall, China spends just over 3 percent of its gross domestic product on education at all levels, about half as much as the average for developed countries. 
 ''Most of the money goes to the top ten schools, and what goes to the top ten mainly goes to the top few,'' a professor at one of the favored schools told me. This makes getting into the ''best'' name-brand schools -- like Tsinghua and Peking universities in Beijing, and Fudan and Jiao Tong in Shanghai -- all the more important, which in turn increases the need for students to cram for tests and the advantage for those who go to high-fee private high schools.

Islamic Radicals: Not More Fervent
 In ''What Makes a Muslim Radical?'' in Foreign Policy magazine, John Esposito, a professor of religion at Georgetown University, and Dalia Mogahed, executive director of Muslim studies for the Gallup Organization, summarize the conclusions on a new Gallup World Poll based on more than 9,000 interviews in nine Muslim countries.
 Because terrorists often hijack Islamic precepts for their own ends, pundits and politicians in the West sometimes portray Islam as a religion of terrorism. They often charge that religious fervor triggers radical and violent views. But the data say otherwise: There is no significant difference in religiosity between moderates and radicals. In fact, radicals are no more likely to attend religious services regularly than are moderates. 
 It's no secret that many in the Muslim world suffer from crippling poverty and lack of education. But are radicals any poorer than their fellow Muslims? We found the opposite: There is indeed a key difference between radicals and moderates when it comes to income and education, but it is the radicals who earn more and who stay in school longer. 
 Whenever a suicide bomber completes a deadly mission, the act is often attributed to hopelessness -- the inability to find a job, earn a living, or support a family. But the politically radical are not more ''hopeless'' than the mainstream. More radicals expressed satisfaction with their financial situation and quality of life than their moderate counterparts, and a majority of them expected to be better off in the years to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (85%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (61%) Education and Schools; Islam; Public Opinion

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Atlantic Monthly; Foreign Policy (Magazine); Gallup Organization

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: James Fallows; John L (Prof) Esposito; Dalia Mogahed

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



575 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Vegas Invasion: Signs of Native Life in the Musical Desert

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
Las Vegas used to be where music went to die. It was a place where spangles, jumpsuits and excessive choreography signaled an end to the creative existence of artists and stamped them with the indelible mark of well-compensated kitsch.
 But tremors of domestically produced musical activity have been detected emanating from Las Vegas. They have the know-how and the manpower there, thanks in part to a steady flow of economic refugees from rock 'n' roll's aging great powers like Detroit and Cleveland. To the piercing screams of young girls, reminiscent of the British Invasion, Vegas bands have begun to storm the bastions of rock. Sin City has nursed a homegrown music scene. Now it has started to export. 
As a hard November rain turned the streets of Midtown Manhattan into colorful neon reflecting pools, the young Las Vegas natives of the band Panic! at the Disco brought their traveling musical revue to the Theater at Madison Square Garden. Stilt walkers, contortionists, and acrobats in various stages of undress formed their retinue. (For the record, there were no white tigers.) A pair of backup musicians augmented the quartet's ranks for its live performance.
 While the band is often identified as part of the emo rock movement, their show mixed in German cabaret, Queen, Tom Waits and -- thanks to a solo turn by the lead singer at a white piano -- the patron saint of Las Vegas, Liberace. It wasn't just a grab bag. It sounded more as if nothing was off limits, rhythmically, melodically or visually. The concert was irresistible fun, a little ridiculous, completely over the top and utterly entertaining. Like the band's hometown, it was worth experiencing at least once.
 But the incursion onto New York soil was hardly an isolated incident. The Las Vegas natives have played New York several times already and will return to the heart of the city to play Times Square on New Year's Eve. And the band is arguably only the second-biggest act hailing from Las Vegas right now, following in the wake of the Killers, whose debut album went triple platinum and which is now touring Britain in support of its second.
 When New York's famous rock club CBGB closed, it was seen as a footnote rather than a shot across the bow that the club would most likely relocate, piece by piece, to upstart Las Vegas. The news offered yet another opportunity for music snobs to look down on the fast-growing desert oasis, this time for attempted punk-rock taxidermy.
 A decade ago it would have been hard to imagine a Las Vegas music scene. 
 Even after its breakout growth made headlines, the city still had the rap of being a transient place. Last year, Las Vegas and the surrounding area of Clark County reached 1.7 million residents. Of those, only 329,000 were from anywhere in Nevada. But the city is more than our stereotypes of slatterns, drunks, inveterate gamblers and hotel maids. 
 In September Las Vegas ended its practice of all-night weddings on weekends, a tradition that brought so much happiness to scandalmongers everywhere and desperate screenwriters in need of easy plot twists. Nevadans voted in a strict new smoking ban on Election Day. And Newsweek International reported that over the last decade the share of residents who work in the resort industry fell below a quarter.
 ''It's like every other city in America,'' says Ryan Ross, the guitarist and chief songwriter of Panic! at the Disco.
 Las Vegans have become more like the rest of us, but haven't we more than met them halfway? In 1985, the year the oldest member of the fledgling band was born, only Nevada and New Jersey had legal casinos. By last year, 37 states had some combination of commercial casinos, Indian tribal casinos or racetrack slot machines. And let's not even get into the aerobic striptease videos, except to note that it is a near certainty that someone will receive one in a Christmas stocking next month.
 It is all but unavoidable that we will have to get used to the idea -- however painful for some -- of taking Las Vegas seriously as a major city. Las Vegas hasn't made it easy on us, with its casino replicas of New York and Paris, but the city does have a Guggenheim. (Even if it is also ensconced in a casino-hotel.) 
 Before cultured New Yorkers snicker too loudly about Vegas's secondhand style, they should remember that the great French chef Joel Robuchon opened the first American branch of his L'Atelier restaurant in Las Vegas before coming to New York. That wasn't an isolated incident in the world of high-end dining, either. The arrivistes are already there. Better get used to it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); THEATER (77%); DESERTS (60%); REFUGEES (56%) Music

PERSON: Nicholas Kulish

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



576 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Kent Connecticut Trustee SubCouncil. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Kent Town Hall, 41 Kent Green Boulevard. (860) 927-3433.
Ledyard Connecticut Siting Council public hearing. Tuesday at 4 p.m. Ledyard High School Media Center, 24 Gallup Hill Road.
Norwalk Connecticut Siting Council public hearing. Wednesday at 3 p.m. Brien McMahon High School Auditorium, 300 Highland Avenue. (860) 827-2935.
Old Lyme Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission public hearing. Thursday at 7 p.m. Department of Environmental Protection, 333 Ferry Road. (860) 434-6043.

Fairfield County

Bethel Inland Wetland Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.
Bethel Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.
Danbury Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.
Darien Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300.
Greenwich Planning and Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700.
Monroe Planning and Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417.
Newtown Board of Finance. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Edmond Town Hall, 45 Main Street. (203) 426-6470.
Redding Planning Commission. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002.

Hartford County

Avon Board of Finance. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300.
Manchester Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Manchester Town Hall, 41 Center Street. (860) 647-5235.
Plainville Veterans Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Plainville Municipal Center, 1 Central Square. (860) 793-0221.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.
Cornwall Zoning Board of Appeals. Monday at 8 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709.
Goshen Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Goshen Town Hall, 42 North Street. (860) 491-2308.
New Milford Town Council. Monday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.
New Milford Inland Wetlands Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.
Plymouth Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001.
Woodbury Inland Wetlands Agency. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144.
Woodbury Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144.

Middlesex County

Cromwell Board of Finance. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Cromwell Town Hall, 41 West Street. (860) 632-3440.
Durham Economic Development Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Durham Town Hall, 350 Main Street. (860) 349-3453.

New Haven County

Cheshire Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Cheshire Town Hall, 84 South Main Street. (203) 271-6660.
Madison Conservation Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672.
Woodbridge Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400.

New London County

Franklin Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Franklin Town Hall, 7 Meeting House Hill Road. (860) 642-7352.
Montville Public Safety Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311.

Tolland County

Columbia Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Columbia Town Hall, 323 Route 87. (860) 228-0110.
Tolland Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.
Tolland Town Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.

Windham County

Plainfield Town Meeting. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plainfield Town Hall, 8 Community Avenue. (860) 230-3000.
Woodstock Conservation Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Woodstock Town Hall, 415 Route 169. (860) 928-6595.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (70%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); FISHERIES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); VETERANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



577 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Energy Inefficiency

BYLINE: By Rob Sargent and Tony Dutzik. 
Rob Sargent is energy program director for United States Public Interest Research Group. Tony Dutzik is a senior policy analyst with Frontier Group.

 BODY:
IT was supposed to be the dawn of a new era. 
 In the 1990s, Connecticut, like many other states, radically restructured its electricity system. Public officials discarded the century-old notion that electricity is a ''natural monopoly.'' Instead, they embraced the notion that new technologies, market forces and the breakup of utility monopolies would reshape the electricity industry for the better. Consumers, they predicted, would soon enjoy the fruits of a deregulated electricity market: more choices, lower rates, even a cleaner environment.
It hasn't worked out that way. Rates in Connecticut and elsewhere have been going up -- about 25 percent in the past year alone for many consumers. Choice is almost non-existent. And Connecticut's oldest and dirtiest power plants remain on line. Consumers are starting to take notice. Recent rate increases in Illinois and Maryland set off political storms. A similar reaction is looming in Connecticut. 
 The mess can be traced to two high-stakes bets made at the outset of restructuring -- both of which have been losers.
 First, restructuring advocates gambled that competitive markets would open the gate to a flood of new, low-cost power. Initially, they were right -- nearly 20 percent of Connecticut's electric generating capacity has been built since 2000. Almost all of that new capacity, however, in Connecticut and nationwide, was powered by natural gas, driving up demand for the fuel. When North American production of natural gas couldn't keep pace, prices for both natural gas and electricity spiked.
 Burned by their experience with natural gas plants, and lacking certainty about the future direction of the market, investors shied from building new power plants. This has led grid operators like ISO New England, which is desperate to keep power flowing, to use incentive payments to encourage power plant construction. Those new payments will cost Connecticut ratepayers $800 million over the next four years alone. 
 The second bet was that new competitors would enter the retail electricity market, offering more choice to consumers. Competitive markets for large consumers did arise in some states, but few companies have sought the business of homeowners and small businesses. In Connecticut, while consumers do have some new choices, including the option to buy ''green power,'' the vigorous retail market envisioned by restructuring supporters never came to be. Only a small number of residential consumers have actually switched providers.
 If Connecticut is to serve electricity consumers well, policymakers must digest the hard lessons of restructuring and chart a new course for the future. 
 First, they must accept the fact that retail competition for small consumers simply isn't going to happen, at least not on terms beneficial to consumers. Utilities will have to continue providing power to most consumers for the foreseeable future. That means we should shift from short- and medium-term purchases on the wholesale power market -- which have saddled consumers with rates that are both high and volatile -- to an approach that favors long-term planning and stable, affordable rates. 
 Second, it's time to recognize that merely building power plants isn't a solution. Plants were constructed haphazardly in the late 1990s and early 2000s and, as a consequence, wound up tying electricity prices to the whims of the natural gas markets. Now, just a few years later, we're faced with a projected shortage of power. 
 It's time for a new approach. Connecticut needs a balanced mix of energy resources to fulfill its power needs. A good model can be found in neighboring Rhode Island. A new law there requires utilities to develop purchasing plans to procure power for consumers at the lowest possible cost. Utilities will be required to invest in energy efficiency -- for example, by providing incentives for the purchase of energy-efficient appliances and industrial equipment -- whenever such investments are cheaper than the cost of power on the open market. To improve stability and reliability, utilities must use a mix of energy resources, including energy efficiency, locally generated power and renewable energy.
 This comprehensive approach is a long way from the ''hands off'' approach to planning and purchasing taken by Connecticut and other states during restructuring. But we've learned over the last decade that we cannot count on market forces alone to deliver clean, reliable and reasonably priced electricity to consumers. With thoughtful planning, and by taking advantage of clean, efficient resources wherever we can, Connecticut can ensure that we have enough energy to keep our economy running while preventing runaway rate increases for consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (64%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power

PERSON: Tony Dutzik; Rob Sargent

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Connecticut; Rhode Island

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



578 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Gains an Asian-American Face

BYLINE: By ADAM BOWLES

 BODY:
AS a teenager in the 1980s, William Tong worked long hours at the Chinese restaurant his parents owned in Hartford, washing dishes, waiting on tables and learning to cook every menu item. 
 That background resonated with voters. Mr. Tong, 33, of Stamford, exhibited that work ethic again and, by his account, knocked on more than 6,000 doors in Stamford and New Canaan to walk his way to victory in the 147th District on election night.
It will be the first time he has held political office. He will also have the distinction of becoming the first Asian-American to serve in the General Assembly.
 Mr. Tong, the eldest of five children, said his upbringing taught him a valuable lesson.
 ''If you just work as hard as you possibly can, you open up so many opportunities for yourself and can make almost anything happen,'' he said. ''And that's what happened in this campaign. My friends called it 'pulling a Tong,' which is doing everything you possibly can to take a race that maybe when you start you're not supposed to win.'' 
 Mr. Tong defeated the incumbent, Donald Sherer, a Republican, 53 percent to 47 percent. Mr. Tong, a lawyer, had taken a leave of absence from the corporate law firm Finn Dixon & Herling in Stamford, where his wife, Elizabeth, also works as a lawyer. The couple has a 9-month-old daughter, Eleanor.
 Mr. Tong's father, Ady, left China around the time of the Communist revolution. He ended up in Hong Kong and eventually attended college in Canada, but when he could not find a job there he left for New York City. An employment agency in Chinatown then told him of a cooking job at a Chinese restaurant in Bloomfield, where he ended up meeting his wife, Nancy. 
 Her parents had left China during World War II and gone to Taiwan. Her father came to the United States in 1963, and the rest of the family eventually joined him here. 
 Angela Rola, director of the Asian American Cultural Center at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, said Mr. Tong's upbringing will help him articulate the problems facing Asian-Americans.. 
 ''Finally having an Asian American in the state legislature, there can be somebody there that will always be the reminder and always bring our issues to the forefront,'' Ms. Rola said. ''He really does have his pulse on the community, which is really growing dramatically in the state.''
 The number of Asian-Americans increased in Connecticut from 92,000 in 2000 to 125,000 in 2005 -- the eighth-fastest growth in the state, according to Census Bureau data.
 Mr. Tong said he planned to speak up for immigrants, who he said ''help power this state.'' He said the federal government should provide a reasonable path to citizenship for undocumented workers.
 ''If you want to wreck Connecticut's economy quick or America's economy quick, go and deport 12 million people,'' he said. ''You can't run a major financial city like Stamford without a diverse population and people working at all socioeconomic levels.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: VICTORY SMILES -- William Tong, right, and Representative Jim Shapiro, whom he will join in the state's General Assembly. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAMILY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (67%); CENSUS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Asian-Americans ; Legislatures and Parliaments; Biographical Information; Politics and Government

COMPANY: FINN DIXON & HERLING LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: William Tong; Adam Bowles

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (90%); CANADA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



579 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Failing Science

BYLINE: By Ellen V. Futter. 
Ellen V. Futter is the president of the American Museum of Natural History.

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, known as the nation's ''report card,'' announced the results of recent science testing of American fourth and eighth graders in urban school districts. 
 The results are frightening. According to the report, 43 percent of American eighth graders do not have a basic understanding of science. In New York City, nearly two thirds of eighth graders do not have the skills to understand scientific principles or reasoning -- nor can they read basic charts or follow along with simple experiments.
These results are not an aberration. A large percentage of America's science teachers have not been given sufficient training in the fields they teach, and many schools lack the equipment and laboratories necessary to teach science. 
 In the past three years, New York City's Teaching Fellows have been leaving schools in substantial numbers after only a year or two of teaching. Among the most frequently cited reasons are the inadequacy of teacher education programs and the lack of resources for retaining and empowering new teachers. 
 Inadequate training leaves a mark in the classroom. Too often science class is about memorizing facts and does not mirror the truly exciting detective work of using scientific methods and tools to observe, collect and analyze natural phenomena. As a result, too few of our children are stimulated to pursue study or careers in these key fields. 
 This has long-term consequences. As the need for professionals in science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- the so-called STEM fields -- grows, we are falling behind in producing them. In 1966, United States citizens and permanent residents accounted for nearly 84 percent of the doctoral degrees granted in these fields by American universities. By 2004, their share had fallen to less than two thirds. Adding to the drought, minorities and women continue to be poorly represented in the STEM fields.
 These problems are too serious for our schools to shoulder alone. Institutions outside the school system can play an important role in training America's scientists and citizens. Science and natural history museums and similar institutions, like botanical gardens and zoos, are plentiful in New York City and its suburbs. Many already have scientific staff, collections, training and research laboratories -- even well-appointed classrooms. 
 One innovative example here at the American Museum of Natural History is Urban Advantage, a consortium of eight New York institutions that works with 7th and 8th-grade public school classes citywide to improve science learning through educational visits and programs.
 Other public and private institutions, including hospitals, universities and industry, must also be brought into the educational fold. Indeed, every sector of New York and the nation should be considered a resource -- and we should enlist them all to address the dire state of science education. These institutions can supplement school curriculums, train science teachers and create the kind of publications, programs and products that bring excitement to learning. 
 Two realities underscore this crisis. First, many of the most pressing issues we face are scientific. We are challenged to safeguard our environment, control infectious diseases, manage scarce natural resources, anticipate and guard against catastrophic climate events and use technology to empower, rather than subject, humanity. The stakes are incalculably high. 
 Second, in science, to stand still is to fall behind. Throughout the latter half of the 20th century, the United States was an undisputed world leader in science and technological innovation. But if the poor science achievement of our students continues, we will fall far behind nations in Europe and Asia -- not just in science but in the global economy that is driven, in part, by scientific innovation. Americans often lament the outsourcing of jobs; we have already begun inadvertently outsourcing our scientific leadership.
 With support from elected officials in the City and the State of New York, a biotech corridor is being developed in the state. This will enable New York to attract and nurture world-class research and innovation. It also creates the potential to use these resources in support of public schools and science education in general.
 Scientific research and education are vital to our democracy and our future. But the importance of science goes well beyond borders or nations. The advancement of science, as both a national and a global enterprise, is integral to the human endeavor. Without it, we cannot thrive and may not survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HISTORY (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) Education and Schools; Science and Technology; Computers and the Internet; Engineering and Engineers; Mathematics; Tests and Testing

PERSON: Ellen V Futter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



580 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Failing Science

BYLINE: By Ellen V. Futter. 
Ellen V. Futter is the president of the American Museum of Natural History.

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, known as the nation's ''report card,'' announced the results of recent science testing of American fourth and eighth graders in urban school districts. 
 The results are frightening. According to the report, 43 percent of American eighth graders do not have a basic understanding of science. In New York City, nearly two thirds of eighth graders do not have the skills to understand scientific principles or reasoning -- nor can they read basic charts or follow along with simple experiments.
These results are not an aberration. A large percentage of America's science teachers have not been given sufficient training in the fields they teach, and many schools lack the equipment and laboratories necessary to teach science in a rigorous and compelling manner. 
 In the past three years, New York City's Teaching Fellows have been leaving schools in substantial numbers after only a year or two of teaching. Among the most frequently cited reasons are the inadequacy of teacher education programs and the lack of resources for retaining and empowering new teachers. 
 Inadequate training leaves a mark in the classroom. Too often science class is about memorizing facts and does not mirror the truly exciting detective work of using scientific methods and tools to observe, collect and analyze natural phenomena. As a result, too few of our children are stimulated to pursue study or careers in these key fields. 
 This has long-term consequences. As the need for professionals in science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- the so-called STEM fields -- grows, we are falling behind in producing them. In 1966, United States citizens and permanent residents accounted for nearly 84 percent of the doctoral degrees granted in these fields by American universities. By 2004, their share had fallen to less than two thirds. Adding to the drought, minorities and women continue to be poorly represented in the STEM fields.
 These problems are too serious for our schools to shoulder alone. Institutions outside the school system can play an important role in training America's scientists and citizens. Science and natural history museums and similar institutions, like botanical gardens and zoos, are plentiful in New York City and its suburbs. Many already have scientific staff, collections, training and research laboratories -- even well-appointed classrooms. 
 One innovative example here at the American Museum of Natural History is Urban Advantage, a consortium of eight New York institutions that works with 7th and 8th-grade public school classes citywide to improve science learning through educational visits and programs.
 Other public and private institutions, including hospitals, universities and industry, must also be brought into the educational fold. Indeed, every sector of New York and the nation should be considered a resource -- and we should enlist them all to address the dire state of science education. These institutions can supplement school curriculums, train science teachers and create the kind of publications, programs and products that bring excitement to learning. 
 Two realities underscore this crisis. First, many of the most pressing issues we face are scientific. We are challenged to safeguard our environment, control infectious diseases, manage scarce natural resources, anticipate and guard against catastrophic climate events and use technology to empower, rather than subject, humanity. The stakes are incalculably high. 
 Second, in science, to stand still is to fall behind. Throughout the latter half of the 20th century, the United States was an undisputed world leader in science and technological innovation. But if the poor science achievement of our students continues, we will fall far behind nations in Europe and Asia -- not just in science but in the global economy that is driven, in part, by scientific innovation. Americans often lament the outsourcing of jobs; we have already begun inadvertently outsourcing our scientific leadership.
 With support from elected officials in the City and the State of New York, a biotech corridor is being developed in the state. This will enable New York to attract and nurture world-class research and innovation. It also creates the potential to use these resources in support of public schools and science education in general.
 Scientific research and education are vital to our democracy and our future. But the importance of science goes well beyond borders or nations. The advancement of science, as both a national and a global enterprise, is integral to the human endeavor. Without it, we cannot thrive and may not survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HISTORY (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Science and Technology; Computers and the Internet; Engineering and Engineers; Mathematics

PERSON: Ellen V Futter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



581 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Champion for the Loew's Kings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
Everything looked good for the palatial Loew's Kings Theater in Flatbush, Brooklyn, for all of about six weeks, the period between its opening on Sept. 7, 1929, and the stock market crash known as Black Thursday. The ensuing Great Depression would quickly render it a palace of misplaced optimism. 
 The vaudeville acts, which had performed twice a day, dropped as if through a trap door in the stage inside of a year. Silent films were fading away, too, and the Robert-Morton Theater Pipe Organ, or ''Wonder Organ,'' was soon reduced to playing during the sing-along ''Follow-the-Bouncing-Ball'' songs between films. 
Still, the gargantuan movie house with more than 3,600 seats, one of only five ''Wonder Theaters'' in the region, remained in the business of showing films for almost 50 years, closing its doors to everyone but thieves, vandals and vagrants in the late 1970s. 
 There is no curtain to raise today, just another rattling metal gate on Flatbush Avenue, beneath a stripped facade and facing a row of discount clothing stores and crowded buses where trolleys used to pass. 
 The city took ownership of the Loew's Kings in 1979, and after false starts since then, a new push is under way to return it to something like its old self. There have been two tours of the theater for potential developers in the last month, providing a rare glimpse at a little bit left of what the theater used to be. 
 The Economic Development Corporation, hoping to raise interest in the 68,000-square-foot theater, issued what is called a Request for an Expression of Interest, with a Dec. 6 deadline. Possibilities include a performance hall with restaurants, shops and church activities. Even apartments can be part of the plan, if the appearance and character of the theater are preserved. The cost of renovating the place, which has severe water damage in one section and is shot through with mold and asbestos, is expected to run into the tens of millions of dollars.
 Wine-colored velvet still hangs from the walls in a few areas, and row after row of plush red seats fan away from the stage. The interior was inspired by the Palace of Versailles and the Paris Opera House. But on the recent tours, the huge room was dimly lit by construction lamps, their wattage no match for the engulfing shadows. It looked like a scene from a post-apocalyptic disaster film. A handful of prospective developers trailed workmen with flashlights, gazing up at the ornate, vaulted ceiling and the grimacing figures leering down. They stepped carefully through the debris. 
 ''They should have mothballed it and really closed it up properly,'' said Orlando Lopes, the New York City director of the Theater Historical Society of America. ''They never did.''
 He, like many others, spent countless Sunday afternoons at the Loew's Kings watching movies that cost him 75 cents, and now at 50, he is left to wait for someone with real money, who may not have been alive then. 
 Of the five ''Wonder Theaters'' to open in the metropolitan area in 1929 and 1930, two, one on 175th Street in Manhattan and one in Queens, called the Valencia, are now churches. The Loew's Paradise in the Bronx reopened in 2005 after extensive renovations, with concerts and a fight card on the calendar in the upcoming weeks. The Loew's Jersey in Jersey City, which opened less than a month after the Loew's Kings, underwent similar renovations.
 Only the Kings sits dark. That this troubles the borough president and defender of all things Brooklyn, Marty Markowitz, should surprise no one, but his connection to the theater runs deeper. His first date played out in the left mezzanine. ''I tried to put my arm around her shoulder,'' he recalled, ''and she drew away.'' 
 Mr. Markowitz said the theater, if reopened, would become the borough's largest public space. ''Certainly to preserve this beautiful grand lady of them all, the Loew's Kings, for future generations, is my charge, my responsibility,'' he said. ''You'll never build a grand hall like this again. Never. Never.''
 An old, dark machine in the lobby offers, ''Tasty Hot Popcorn.'' Another invites, ''Drink and Be Refreshed.'' A series of paintings of a knight slaying a dragon and saving a damsel decorate what were once sitting rooms and smoking lounges outside the restrooms. There is a small basketball court in the basement where the ushers used to play.
 Above the lobby, there remain a few chandeliers that were probably too big and too high to steal, refrigerator-size. The fixtures on the mezzanine atop a wide, winding staircase did not fare as well. All that is left are holes in the ceiling and walls. 
 Bruce Friedman, who also watched movies at the theater as a teenager, is now, at 63, the head of a group called ''Save the Kings'' and an authority on its history. He said there used to be an alarm system, until one day ''it looked like crabgrass growing out of the wall. Someone had stripped away the keypad,'' he said. Later, he discovered a large square of carpet cut out of the mezzanine. ''I saw it used as the roof of a shanty built by homeless people behind the theater. They had the run of the place.''
 One of the potential developers, Jonathan Rheingold, 39, publisher of the hip-hop magazine XXL, said he, too, grew up in the theater. ''It's been sitting there deteriorating since probably the last Bruce Lee movie I saw there as a kid,'' he said. He returned for a tour on Nov. 15 with several men who he said were considering financing an idea that he declined to discuss in any detail. 
 ''If anyone could do it, it would be this team,'' he said. ''The fantasy would be for it to be saved and brought back to its original glory, but any compromise would be better than the state it's in now.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Potential developers toured the theater recently. Plans could include a performance hall with restaurants and shops. Apartments would be permitted, too, if the theater's appearance and character are preserved.
 The Loew's Kings Theater opened on Sept. 7, 1929, and films were shown there for almost 50 years. The city took ownership of it in 1979 and now is gauging interest from developers. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); FILM (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CLOSINGS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (63%); HISTORY (62%); THEATER (58%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%) Motion Pictures; Theaters (Buildings); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Vaudeville

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC); Loew's Kings Theater (NYC)

PERSON: Michael Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



582 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Vodka World Shaken, and Stirred, by Fruit Spirits

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: RIGA, Latvia 

 BODY:
Polish lore has it that vodka was distilled from coal during Communist times after efforts to use chickens backfired. In Sweden, vodka was once produced from paper-mill residue. But vodka purists of today have little patience for alternative ingredients.
 ''Real vodka can only be made from grain or potatoes,'' says Rolands Gulbis, chairman of Latvijas Balzams, the largest vodka distiller in the Baltics, whose vodka-making tradition dates at the very least to 1900, when Czar Nicholas II of Russia built a vodka storage house here. ''If vodka can be made out of grapes, then we might as well call an apple an orange and rename brandy as beer.'' 
But the definition of vodka is no longer as clear as the transparent spirit itself.
 A vodka war has broken out in Europe. On one side are traditionalists in Poland, Finland, Sweden and the Baltic countries who argue that only spirits made exclusively from grains, potatoes and sugar-beet molasses are worthy of the name. On the other are distillers in Italy, France, Britain, and the Netherlands who are fighting for a more liberal definition. They contend that vodka's ingredients do not affect its taste. 
 After all, James Bond specified that his vodka martini should be ''shaken, not stirred.'' He never insisted it be made from grain or potatoes.
 Finland, current holder of the European Union presidency and a country where vodka has long been a tonic for chilly nights, is pressing for European Union legislation to require vodka made from nontraditional ingredients like grapes, other fruit, or even maple syrup, to say so in large bold letters on the bottle.
 But rival vodka makers, including Diageo of Britain, the world's biggest spirit maker, owner of the popular grape-based brand Ciroc and maker of Smirnoff, say this is little more than a cynical ploy by the Nordic and Baltic countries to try to monopolize the $12 billion global vodka market.
 ''The claims that vodka can only be made in a certain way are groundless,'' says Chris Scott-Wilson, spokesman for the European Vodka Alliance, which is lobbying against the Finnish proposal on behalf of Diageo and other large vodka makers. ''Saying that vodka's taste derives from its ingredients is especially ridiculous when most consumers use vodka as a flavorless mixer with something else like tonic or orange juice.''
 Traditionalists scoff at such remarks, arguing that good vodka has its own distinct flavor. 
 Critics of the proposed legislation warn that it risks spurring a global trade war with the United States, where novelty vodkas like Vermont Spirits Gold -- made from maple sap -- are growing in popularity.
 The United States is the world's fastest-growing vodka market, accounting for $724 million in European vodka exports. ''If the E.U. tries to expel American vodka from Europe, then the U.S. will retaliate at the World Trade Organization,'' said Alan Butler, director of government affairs at Diageo. The United States ''would restrict European vodka imports into the U.S., and then we will have a trade war on our hands,'' he said. 
 The vodka-belt countries of central and eastern Europe and Scandinavia argue that they are fighting to preserve a centuries-old tradition. ''You don't expect grapes in your beer, you don't expect grapes in your vodka,'' Mr. Gulbis said. ''You buy beer because it is beer; you buy vodka because it is vodka.''
 The origins of vodka, however, are hotly disputed. Russians will tell you that they invented vodka, so basic a drink there that the word itself is a diminutive of ''water.'' They point to distilling techniques that emerged in Russia in the 12th century.
 But Poland, one of the countries lobbying most actively for the European Union legislation, also claims to be a vodka pioneer. As early as the eighth century, Polish peasants are said to have made crude alcoholic spirits by freezing wine, based on a secret recipe believed to have been brought to Poland by Italian monks. The first written record of vodka in Poland dates from 1404 in the Sandomierz Court Registry.
 But Mr. Butler of Diageo and others say the origins of distillation rest with Arab traders, who used that process to make spirits from grapes in the 14th century.
 Moreover, Mr. Butler argues, it was the Smirnoff family, distillers to the Russian court, who created the global vodka industry. The Smirnoffs left Russia after the 1917 revolution and began producing vodka in the United States in the 1930s, after Prohibition. The fashion for vodka cocktails was fueled by the success of a drink called the Moscow Mule (chilled vodka, ginger beer, lime and ice), which became popular with Hollywood celebrities in the 1950s.
 ''If it wasn't for the U.S. there would be no global vodka industry,'' Mr. Butler said. Countries like Finland and Sweden have only been producing vodka for decades, he added, noting that, until recently, Baltic, Swedish, and Polish vodka distillers had loose definitions of the drink.
 Poles, for example, made vodka from apples and plums; in Latvia, vodka was previously called Degvins, or burned wine. These roots in fruit would seem to undercut the traditionalist argument. But Finnish and Swedish producers challenge Mr. Butler's history. The Swedish distiller, Absolut, for instance, says it has made vodka since 1879 and that vodka has been a national drink in Sweden since the 17th century.
 The vodka skirmish underlines the challenges the European Union faces in regulating a giant bloc of 470 million consumers where traditions, alcoholic or otherwise, run deep. Europe has already imposed geographic naming restrictions on 600 products ranging from wines to cheeses.
 For example, only Greek companies that use goat milk and special production methods can market and sell feta cheese within the bloc, much to the annoyance of producers in Denmark and France. Belgium and Britain spent two decades arguing over what fat to allow in chocolate: Britain wanted to allow any vegetable fat; the Belgians demanded only cocoa butter. The French, noted an exasperated Mr. Gulbis, the Latvian spirits chief, insist that only bubbly from a northeast corner of France may be called Champagne, and yet their vodka producers are intent on making vodka out of grapes left from wine-making. Behind the bar at a hip Riga nightspot called Hedonia, Ansis Ansovs, 29, said serving vodka made from anything but grain would be sacrilege. 
 But he added that he is no great fan of vodka, which many young Latvians associate with the older generation and Soviet occupation. For himself, he said, ''I would rather have a glass of wine.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ansis Ansovs, showing off his bartending skills at Hedonia in Riga, says vodka should be made only from grain, although he prefers other drinks. (Photo by Ilmars Znotins/Northfoto, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLERIES (91%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (69%); LOBBYING (69%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); DEREGULATION (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (58%) Alcoholic Beverages; Vodka; Alcoholic Beverages; Law and Legislation; Labeling and Labels; Containers and Packaging; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: LATVIJAS BALZAMS (57%); DIAGEO PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (53%); DGE (LSE) (53%); DEO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (57%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%)

PERSON: Dan Bilefsky

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); BALTIC STATES (94%); SWEDEN (94%); LATVIA (92%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (92%); FINLAND (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); NETHERLANDS (71%) Finland ; Poland; Sweden; Italy; Great Britain; France; Netherlands; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



583 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Insurgency Has Funds To Sustain Itself, U.S. Finds

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
The insurgency in Iraq is now self-sustaining financially, raising tens of millions of dollars a year from oil smuggling, kidnapping, counterfeiting, connivance by corrupt Islamic charities and other crimes that the Iraqi government and its American patrons have been largely unable to prevent, a classified United States government report has concluded.
 The report, obtained by The New York Times, estimates that groups responsible for many insurgent and terrorist attacks are raising $70 million to $200 million a year from illegal activities. It says $25 million to $100 million of that comes from oil smuggling and other criminal activity involving the state-owned oil industry, aided by ''corrupt and complicit'' Iraqi officials.
As much as $36 million a year comes from ransoms paid for hundreds of kidnap victims, the report says. It estimates that unnamed foreign governments -- previously identified by American officials as including France and Italy -- paid $30 million in ransom last year. 
 A copy of the seven-page report was made available to The Times by American officials who said the findings could improve understanding of the challenges the United States faces in Iraq.
 The report offers little hope that much can be done, at least soon, to choke off insurgent revenues. For one thing, it acknowledges how little the American authorities in Iraq know -- three and a half years after the invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein -- about crucial aspects of insurgent operations. For another, it paints an almost despairing picture of the Iraqi government's ability, or willingness, to take steps to tamp down the insurgency's financing.
 ''If accurate,'' the report says, its estimates indicate that these ''sources of terrorist and insurgent finance within Iraq -- independent of foreign sources -- are currently sufficient to sustain the groups' existence and operation.'' To this, it adds what may be its most surprising conclusion: ''In fact, if recent revenue and expense estimates are correct, terrorist and insurgent groups in Iraq may have surplus funds with which to support other terrorist organizations outside of Iraq.''
 Some terrorism experts outside the government who were given an outline of the report by The Times criticized it as imprecise and speculative. Completed in June, the report was compiled by an interagency working group investigating the financing of militant groups in Iraq.
 A Bush administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the group's existence. He said it was led by Juan Zarate, deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism, and was made up of about a dozen people, drawn from the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the Defense Intelligence Agency, the State Department, the Treasury Department and the United States Central Command.
 The group's estimate of the financing for the insurgency, even taking the higher figure of $200 million, underscores the David and Goliath nature of the war. American, Iraqi and other coalition forces are fighting an array of shadowy Sunni and Shiite groups that can draw on huge armories left over from Mr. Hussein's days, and benefit from the willingness of many insurgents to fight with little or no pay. If the $200 million a year estimate is close to the mark, it amounts to less than what it costs the Pentagon, with an $8 billion monthly budget for Iraq, to sustain the American war effort here for a single day.
 But other estimates suggest the sums involved could be far higher. The oil ministry in Baghdad, for example, estimated earlier this year that 10 percent to 30 percent of the $4 billion to $5 billion in fuel imported for public consumption in 2005 was smuggled back out of the country for resale. At that time, the finance minister estimated that close to half of all smuggling profits was going to insurgents. If true, that would be $200 million or more from fuel smuggling alone. 
 For Washington, the report's most dismaying finding may be that the insurgency now survives off money generated from activities inside Iraq, and no longer depends on sums Mr. Hussein and his associates seized as his government collapsed. American officials said that as American troops entered Baghdad, Mr. Hussein's oldest son, Qusay, took more than $1 billion in cash from the Central Bank of Iraq and stashed it in steel trunks aboard a flatbed truck. Large sums of cash were found in Mr. Hussein's briefcase when he was captured in December 2003.
 But the report says Mr. Hussein's loyalists ''are no longer a major source of funding for terrorist or insurgent groups in Iraq.'' Part of the reason, the report says, is that an American-led international effort has frozen $3.6 billion in ''former regime assets.'' Another reason, it says, is that Mr. Hussein's erstwhile loyalists, realizing that ''it is increasingly obvious that a Baathist regime will not regain power in Iraq,'' have turned increasingly to spending the money on their own living expenses. The trail to these assets ''has grown cold,'' the report adds.
 The document says the pattern of insurgent financing changed after the first 18 months of the war, from the Hussein loyalists who financed it in 2003 to ''foreign fighters and couriers'' smuggling cash in bulk across Iraq's porous borders in 2004, to the present reliance on a complex array of indigenous sources. ''Currently, we assess that these groups garner most of their funding from petroleum-related criminal activity, kidnapping and other criminal pursuits within Iraq,'' the report concludes.
 One section of the report is dedicated to the role played by ''sympathetic donors,'' including Islamic charities and nongovernmental organizations. It says that ''intelligence reporting'' indicates that only 10 to 15 of the 4,000 nongovernmental groups support terrorist and insurgent groups, but that those few take advantage of lax Iraqi regulation to divert funds to insurgent and other armed groups and, in some cases, ''to provide cover for insurgent recruitment and the transport of weapons and personnel.''
 The possibility that Iraq-based terrorist groups could finance attacks outside Iraq appeared to echo Bush administration assertions that prevailing in the war here is essential to preventing Iraq from becoming a terrorist haven, as Afghanistan became under the Taliban. But that suggestion was one of several aspects of the report that drew criticism from Western terrorism and counterinsurgency experts working outside the government who were given the outline of the findings.
 While noting that the report appeared to reflect a major effort by the administration to learn more about the murky world of insurgent financing in Iraq, the experts said the seven-page document appeared to be speculative, at least in its estimates of the funds available to the insurgent and terror groups. They noted the wide spread of the estimates, particularly the $70 million to $200 million figure for overall financing, the report's failure to specify which groups the estimates covered and the absence of documentation of how authors had arrived at their estimates.
 While such data may have been omitted to protect the group's clandestine sources and methods -- the document has a bold heading on the front page saying ''secret'' and a warning that it is not to be shared with foreign governments -- several security and intelligence consultants said in telephone interviews that the vagueness of the estimates reflected how little American intelligence agencies knew about the opaque and complex world of Iraq's militant groups. 
 ''They're just guessing,'' said W. Patrick Lang, a former chief of Middle East intelligence at the Defense Intelligence Agency, who now runs a security and intelligence consultancy. ''They really have no idea.'' He added, ''They've been very unsuccessful in penetrating these organizations.'' He said he was equally skeptical about the report's assertion that the insurgent and militant groups may have surpluses to finance terrorism outside Iraq. ''That's another guess,'' he said. 
 ''A judgment like that, coming from an N.S.C.-generated document,'' he said, is not an analytical assessment as much as it is a political statement to support the administration's contention that Iraq is a central front in the war on terrorism. ''It's a statement put in there to support a policy judgment,'' he said. 
 Several analysts said that, except for the possibility that Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia might be transferring money to Qaeda factions elsewhere, the assertion that insurgent money might be flowing out of the country was doubtful considering the single-minded regional focus of most of the militants operating here.
 Dr. Magnus Ranstorp of the Swedish National Defense College, an author of extensive studies of the Iraqi insurgency, said he doubted Iraqi groups were ready to finance terrorism outside the country. ''There's very little evidence that they're preparing to export terrorism from Iraq to the West,'' he said. ''I think it's much too early for that.''
 The document tracing the money flows acknowledges that investigators have had limited success in penetrating or choking off terrorist financing networks. The report says American efforts to follow the financing trails have been hamstrung by several factors. They include a weak Iraqi government and its nascent intelligence agencies; a lack of communication between American agencies, and between the Americans and the Iraqis; and the nature of the insurgent economy itself, primarily sustained by couriers carrying cash rather than more easily traceable means involving banks and the hawala money transfer networks traditional in the Middle East.
 ''Efforts to identify key financial facilitators, funding sources and transfer mechanisms are yielding some results, but we need to improve our understanding of how terrorist and insurgent cells interact, how their financial networks vary from province to province or city to city and how they use their funds,'' the report says. It also says the United States must help the Iraqi government ''to excise corrupt officials from its law enforcement and security services and its ministries'' and ''to prevent smuggled Iraqi oil from being sold within their borders.''
 Another challenge for the United States, the report says, was to persuade foreign governments to ''stop paying ransoms.'' It gives no details, but American officials have said previously that France paid a multimillion-dollar ransom for the release in December 2004 of two French reporters held hostage by an insurgent group. Italy, these officials have said, paid ransoms on at least two occasions, in September 2004 for the release of two women, both aid workers, and in March 2005, a reported $5 million for the release of Giuliana Sgrena, a journalist for the Rome newspaper Il Manifesto.
 Several American security consultants, all former members of government intelligence agencies that deal with terrorism, said in interviews that the ineffectiveness of efforts to impede the revenues to the insurgents was reflected in the continuing, if not growing, strength of Iraq's militants. ''You have to look at what the insurgency is doing,'' Mr. Lang said. ''Are they hampered by a lack of funds? I see no evidence that they are.'' 
 Jeffrey White, a defense fellow with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, also a former Middle East analyst with the Defense Intelligence Agency, agreed. ''We've had some tactical successes where we've picked off a financier or whatever, but we haven't been able to unravel a major component of the system,'' he said. ''I've never seen any indication that they're strapped for cash, never seen any indication that they were short on weapons.''
 He said the insurgency had demonstrated tremendous regenerative properties. ''The networks fix themselves, they heal themselves,'' he said. He pointed to the success of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia in withstanding the loss of hundreds of combatants and dozens of major leaders. ''They keep coming back,'' he said, ''and I think the same thing has happened to the financial system.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Suspected insurgents fighting on the streets of Ramadi, Iraq, in 2005. A classified American study offers little hope that much can be done to choke off revenues to the armed groups battling the government in Iraq. (Photo by Bilal Hussein/Associated Press)(pg. 20)
 Suspected Iraqi insurgents at a jail near Baghdad yesterday. An American report says insurgent groups are flush with money raised through crime. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); COUNTERFEITING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ETHICS (73%); RELIGION (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Finances; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Kidnapping; Philanthropy; Ethics; Counterfeit Money and Financial Instruments

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) John F Burns; Kirk Semple

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (56%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



584 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador's Path and Alliances at Stake in Runoff Election

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Abraham Mahshie contributed reporting.

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
No one can accuse Ecuador, which will elect its eighth president in 10 years on Sunday, of dull politics.
 Rafael Correa, a candidate in Sunday's runoff, strums a guitar before audiences between promises to whip Ecuador's political elite with his belt and shut the last American military base in South America. He chastises the Bush administration in the polished English he learned while earning a doctorate in economics at the University of Illinois.
 Alvaro Noboa, his rival, is a billionaire who hands out free computers and fistfuls of dollars at his rallies. Mr. Noboa, a banana tycoon who is Ecuador's richest man, dropped to his knees this month at a campaign stop to ask for votes as a self-described ''messiah of the poor.'' 
 But the contest is far more than entertaining; the outcome could actually redraw power relations in Latin America.
 Mr. Noboa, 56, surprised analysts by winning the first round of voting in October and maintaining a double-digit lead for much of the past month. A victory by Mr. Noboa, who has failed in two other campaigns for the presidency, would align Ecuador, an oil-exporting country of 13 million people, with Andean countries like Colombia and Peru that have strengthened ties with the United States.
 By law here, the results of opinion polls may not be published in the 20 days before an election, and in recent days, each candidate has claimed a wide lead. However, the results of polls conducted in part for foreign banks were exchanged by e-mail throughout the country, creating a rift of information between those with Internet access and those without.
 One such poll, by Cedatos-Gallup and released Friday for clients of the investment bank Credit Suisse, showed that among those who plan to cast a vote for one of the candidates, Mr. Correa had the support of 52 percent against 48 percent for Mr. Noboa. The poll has a margin of error of three percentage points, essentially putting the candidates in a statistical tie. Though polls are often unreliable in Ecuador, the results put financial markets on edge with investors selling off Ecuadorean bonds in New York on Friday.
 Ramiro Crespo, president of Analytica Securities, a Quito investment bank, said he was so fed up with Ecuador's recent history of political instability that he would declare his vote null. (Voting is obligatory in Ecuador.)
 ''I'm tired of choosing the lesser evil,'' he said, adding, ''Correa is a sophisticated academic who sees economics in the abstract, but he has never had to make a payroll each Friday, let alone run a country.'' 
 Mr. Correa, 43, has moderated his radical talk somewhat in recent weeks, meeting with the American ambassador in Quito and saying his harsh comments about President Bush were ''imprudent.'' But he still says he would renegotiate Ecuador's foreign debt and opposes renewing an agreement that allows the United States military to operate from Manta, a port city on the Pacific coast.
 Most controversially, Mr. Correa also boasts of his friendship with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, who would be glad to fold Ecuador into an anti-American alliance that now includes Bolivia and Cuba. 
 Mr. Chavez had been unusually quiet about Ecuador's presidential race, perhaps stung by the recent defeats of candidates with perceived ties to Venezuela in Peru and Mexico, but he broke that silence this month in a news conference with foreign journalists in Caracas, describing Mr. Noboa as ''the banana king who exploits his workers and exploits children and puts them to work.''
 Mr. Noboa denies that children have worked in banana plantations connected to his company, though Human Rights Watch in 2002 documented cases of children in such circumstances working in plantations that supplied his company. 
 Sometimes appearing in public with a large crucifix around his neck, Mr. Noboa has repeatedly called Mr. Correa a ''communist devil'' and ''colonel,'' an allusion to his admiration of the militaristic Mr. Chavez.
 ''Noboa has been a pure demagogue with promises that are impossible to fulfill, like building 300,000 houses, curing the sick, cutting electricity costs in half,'' said Fernando Santos, a political analyst and former energy minister.
 Still, Mr. Noboa also grew more moderate in recent days, saying he would not cut diplomatic ties with Venezuela and Cuba as he had earlier pledged.
 The winner, who will serve a four-year term, will face a fractious and powerful congress, one of the biggest impediments to presidents finishing their terms in Ecuador, though Mr. Correa would be in a weaker position than Mr. Noboa, who has a stronger congressional base.
 Some analysts fear that Mr. Noboa, already a towering business figure who controls more than 100 companies, would use the presidency to advance his economic interests, concerns echoed by Mr. Correa's frequent contention that his opponent would rule the country like a ''banana plantation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rafael Correa, an economist, and Alvaro Noboa, a banana tycoon, are competing to be Ecuador's next president in today's runoff vote. One poll, taken by an independent company, put the candidates in a statistical tie. (Photo by Fernando Vergara/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); INTERNET & WWW (64%) Public Opinion; United States International Relations; Elections; Election Issues; Politics and Government

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Simon Romero; Alvaro Noboa; Rafael Correa

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PERU (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Ecuador; Venezuela; Colombia; Peru; Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



585 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: November 26, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	2		1	WILD FIRE, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.99.) Detective John Corey and his wife, an F.B.I. agent, help to foil a nuclear plot against the United States.		 	 	 	3		1	BORN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the disappearance of a pregnant woman; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	4*	2	7	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	5	3	3	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	6	5	4	THE COLLECTORS, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.99.) The members of the Camel Club reunite to solve a murder at the Library of Congress.		 	 	 	7	4	2	H.R.H., by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) An American-educated European princess faces unexpected challenges when she works at an African Red Cross camp.		 	 	 	8		1	THE RISING TIDE, by Jeff Shaara. (Ballantine, $27.95.) The first volume of a projected trilogy of novels about World War II focuses on campaigns in North Africa and Sicily.		 	 	 	9	8	5	ECHO PARK, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) The Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch returns to an old unsolved case with unexpected results.		 	 	 	10	6	5	ACT OF TREASON, by Vince Flynn. (Atria, $25.95.) The C.I.A. operative Mitch Rapp makes surprising discoveries when he investigates an attack on a Democratic presidential candidate's motorcade.		 	 	 	11	9	3	FIRST IMPRESSIONS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) Seeking peace, a wealthy businessman retreats to a small town but his lovely and charitable neighbor won't stay away; reprint of a 1984 novel.		 	 	 	12	7	6	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 	13*	10	3	HUNDRED-DOLLAR BABY, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) The madam of an upscale brothel needs help from the Boston private eye Spenser, who helped her years ago as a teenage runaway. 		 	 	 	14		1	INES OF MY SOUL, by Isabel Allende. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A historical novel about the conquest of Chile, based on the life of a woman who, with her lover, built the city of Santiago.		 	 	 	15	14	9	THE THIRTEENTH TAle, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	4	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	2	5	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	3	3	7	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	4	5	56	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5	4	7	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	6	7	15	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7	8	8	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	8	10	3	THUNDERSTRUCK, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $25.95.) Intertwined stories of early-20th-century murder and scientific intrigue intersect in a sea chase on the North Atlantic; from the author of ''The Devil in the White City.''		 	 	 	9*	9	4	THE MR. AND MRS. HAPPY HANDBOOK, by Steve Doocy. (Morrow, $23.95.) Humorous observations on marriage and family life.		 	 	 	10	6	2	A HAND TO GUIDE ME, by Denzel Washington with Daniel Paisner. (Meredith, $24.95.) Stories by celebrities and leaders about people who inspired them, introduced by the Academy Award-winning actor.		 	 	 	11	11	4	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	12	13	84	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	13		1	THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS, by Sylvia Browne. (Dutton, $23.95.) A professed psychic's perspective.		 	 	 	14		1	THE REAL DEAL, by Sandy Weill and Judah S. Kraushaar. (Warner, $32.) The philanthropist and former chief executive of Citigroup looks back on his career.		 	 	 	15	12	4	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) The actress's wacky approach to entertaining.		 	 	 	16*	15	79	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to almost everything.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Nov. 4, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestCOLLECTED POEMS, 1947-1997, by Allen Ginsberg. (HarperCollins, $39.95.) This handsome 1,189-page volume shows that Ginsberg was not just a protest writer but a lyric poet of the old school, preoccupied with passion, place and fate.
 I CELEBRATE MYSELF: The Somewhat Private Life of Allen Ginsberg, by Bill Morgan. (Viking, $29.95.) Morgan's biography, exhaustive yet not exhausting, is a full-scale posthumous literary tribute. 
 POSTCARDS FROM ED: Dispatches and Salvos From an American Iconoclast. Edited by David Petersen. (Milkweed Editions, $24.95.) Barbed letters to editors and others by the author and environmentalist Edward Abbey take both literary colleagues and stewards of nature to task.
 THE JOKE'S OVER: Bruised Memories: Gonzo, Hunter S. Thompson, and Me, by Ralph Steadman. (Harcourt, $26.) Seemingly trying not to, Thompson's illustrator winds up indicting him. 
 TOO SOON TO SAY GOODBYE, by Art Buchwald. (Random House, $17.95.) The humanist humorist ponders his strange second chance at life.
 GREAT ESTIMATIONS, Written and illustrated by Bruce Goldstone. (Holt, $16.95; ages 7 to 10.) A model for teaching children what larger numbers really mean and how to use them well.
 THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PAJAMAS, by John Boyne. (David Fickling/Random House, $15.95; ages 12 and up.) A boy's innocence is eroded in this growing-up story set in evil times.
 THE ASTONISHING LIFE OF OCTAVIAN NOTHING: Traitor to the Nation. Volume I: The Pox Party, by M. T. Anderson. (Candlewick, $17.99; ages 14 and up.) In the 1760s, a gifted black boy discovers he's been raised for an experiment. 
 ALFRED HITCHCOCK: The Master of Suspense, written and illustrated by Kees Moerbeek. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95; ages 14 and up.) A smart and loving pop-up tour of some of his best movies. 
 AN ABUNDANCE OF KATHERINES, by John Green. (Dutton, $16.99; ages 14 and up.) On a road trip, two friends from Chicago find summer jobs and romance in small-town Tennessee.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); WRITERS (89%); MURDER (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); HISTORY (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TREASON (71%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); PROSTITUTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); MITCH ALBOM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); CHILE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



586 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: The Autumn Rally Has Left Few Industries in the Dust

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
MANY Wall Street strategists were caught by surprise when domestic stocks began rallying strongly in September and October. They now say that two powerful forces -- a merger wave and hedge funds -- have helped to propel share prices this fall.
 ''The biggest managers of capital on the planet are hedge funds,'' said Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist of Oppenheimer & Company. ''It's not mutual funds; it's not banks.'' Mr. Metz estimated that about half of the recent surge in domestic stocks had been driven by hedge fund managers trying to score year-end gains.
Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, agreed that hedge funds had been a driving force behind the rally, and said that mergers had been another important factor. At the start of 2006, companies in the S.& P. 500-stock index had more than $630 billion in cash on their books, tempting executives to use some of that money for mergers and acquisitions. 
 The rally over the last three months has been broad-based, with nearly every industry group rising smartly. Only energy stocks have drifted sideways this fall, as oil prices have eased. But strategists note that cash has been pouring into industry groups for a while, then rotating quickly into other types of stocks, giving the rally its wide sweep. They point to this trading pattern as one sign that hedge funds have been a driving force behind the recent surge. 
 Because stocks have risen so quickly of late, many strategists predict more modest gains next year, but they say that domestic stocks are still a better buy, on average, than domestic real estate or bonds. 
 Over all, the S.& P. Composite 1500 index rose 8.6 percent during the last three months, in a broad-based rally. The group of stocks with the largest market capitalization -- those in the S.& P. 500 -- rose the least, 8.4 percent. Smaller stocks surged, with the S.& P. MidCap 400 index rising 10 percent and the S.& P. SmallCap 600 up 11.5 percent.
 So far this year, the S.& P. SmallCap 600 has risen 14.8 percent, the S.& P. 500 has gained 12.2 percent, while the S.& P. MidCap 400 index has gone up 10 percent.
 The disparity in the returns of the large- and small-cap indexes was more pronounced from 2002 to 2004, when the small caps trounced the large caps. Value fund managers have been saying for a while that some of the best deals are in large-cap stocks, and some of these managers say the recent rally hasn't altered that opinion.
 Christopher C. Davis, the vice chairman of Davis Selected Advisers, a value-oriented mutual fund company based in New York, said he thought that domestic stocks were now fairly priced, on average, but that valuations of riskier companies were nearly as high as those of large, high-quality companies -- so he is favoring blue chips. 
 Mr. Davis and Ken Charles Feinberg have been co-managers of the Davis New York Venture fund since the 1990s and of the Clipper fund since the beginning of this year. Both men say they like financial services stocks now. 
 ''It's a non-obsolete business, where the management team can make a big difference,'' Mr. Davis said.
 Among the top five holdings of Davis New York Venture is J. P. Morgan Chase; although the stock has risen about 20 percent this year, Mr. Feinberg said it was still trading at only about 12 times what the Davis firm expected the company to earn next year.
 The Davis fund managers say they are fairly neutral on energy as a sector, but they like ConocoPhillips, which is also among the largest holdings of Davis New York Venture and the Clipper fund. The managers estimate that the company, based in Houston, is trading at a 30 percent discount to similar large integrated energy companies. They attribute that to its acquisition, completed in March, of Burlington Resources. It would have been more economical for ConocoPhillips to repurchase its own shares at that time, the managers said.
 ''I think investors got very concerned about capital allocation after that acquisition,'' Mr. Davis said. But he said he thought that investors had punished the stock too much, and that it was now a bargain relative to other energy stocks.
 The Clipper fund has returned 14.2 percent so far this year, while Davis New York Venture has returned 12.1 percent. The Davis fund has had average annual returns of 9.6 percent over the last five years.
 Many sectors that have soared the highest recently have been focused on American consumers. S.& P.'s diverse consumer discretionary stock group -- which ranges from apparel to cruise lines to home furnishings -- catapulted 18 percent during the three months through Tuesday. Information technology stocks rose 15.2 percent, but within high tech, the shares of consumer-oriented companies fared much better than those that sell capital equipment to businesses. Shares of home entertainment software makers, for example, surged 21.7 percent. 
 Mr. Metz said he thought that the big run-up in consumer stocks, however, had almost played out.
 ''I think the American consumer is pretty satiated,'' he said, predicting that personal consumption would start slowing next year.
 He said he expects some of the best stocks of 2007 to be companies that can profit from rising capital spending abroad -- for example, construction and engineering companies that work on building projects in rapidly growing countries like China and India.
 Although most industries have benefited from the recent rally, health care stocks have lagged notably behind the pack, gaining only 2.2 percent over the last three months. Mr. Stovall of Standard & Poor's said he thought that this was one corner of the market where there might still be some relative bargains.
 Earnings in the health care sector grew 8 percent in 2005, Mr. Stovall said, adding that he expects additional growth of 10 percent in 2006 and 14 percent in 2007. Yet health care stocks in the S.& P. Composite 1500 have risen only 4 percent this year, through Tuesday. 
 ''I think a lot of that has to do with the uncertainty over the pipeline of major pharmaceutical companies; and the potential impact of the Democratic sweep of Congress,'' Mr. Stovall said. ''If there is a group that could surprise to the upside next year, that could be health care, because people expect the worst.''
 WHATEVER industry groups fare best in 2007, many strategists predict that larger stocks will finally and definitively outperform smaller stocks next year. Richard Bernstein, the chief domestic strategist at Merrill Lynch, notes that small-cap stocks trounced large caps from 2002 through 2004, but that the picture hasn't been as clear since the beginning of 2005. The market, he said, has been in a transitional period.
 ''As profits decelerate, the market becomes more Darwinistic, he said. ''And survival of the fittest tends to mean the biggest and best companies.'' 
 Mr. Stovall of Standard & Poor's says he also thinks that 2007 will be the year when large-cap stocks convincingly overtake small-cap stocks. 
 The S.& P. 500 index is trading at 15.8 times S.& P.'s earnings estimates for 2006, while the comparable multiple for the SmallCap 600 is 18.5.
 ''Valuations for small caps still don't look bad, but they are more stretched,'' Mr. Stovall said. So he recommends allocating about 90 percent of a stock portfolio to large-cap stocks, like those in the S.& P. 500.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''So Many Winners, So Few Losers''A summary of performance for stocks in the Standard & Poor's Composite 1500, by sector. (The Composite 1500 is made up of the S.& P. 500, MidCap 400 and SmallCap 600.)SECTOR: Consumer discretionaryS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 19.32007: 18.1STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 16.0%S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.02007: 17.0STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 2.1%S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.22007: 17.8STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 8.5%SECTOR: Consumer staplesS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.72007: 17.3STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 10.0S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 17.72007: 15.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 10.0S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 32.22007: 19.8STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 26.1SECTOR: EnergyS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 10.12007: 9.5STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 19.5S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 13.32007: 10.3STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 0.4S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 11.42007: 10.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 18.4SECTOR: FinancialsS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 13.02007: 12.3STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 13.6S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 16.62007: 15.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 12.2S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 16.92007: 17.0STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 13.0SECTOR: Health careS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.82007: 16.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 4.2S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 27.72007: 21.7STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: -1.2S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 31.72007: 24.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 9.0SECTOR: IndustrialsS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 17.22007: 15.7STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 11.3S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 19.72007: 17.1STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 14.3S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.82007: 16.0STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 18.5SECTOR: Information technologyS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 23.92007: 19.7STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 10.2S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 25.12007: 19.4STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 15.8S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 27.52007: 19.8STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 10.3SECTOR: MaterialsS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 14.12007: 13.3STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 13.9S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 13.92007: 12.6STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 11.3S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 12.72007: 15.5STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 30.1SECTOR: Telecom servicesS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 17.62007: 14.6STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 24.6S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 26.92007: NASTOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 43.8S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.62007: NASTOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 31.8SECTOR: UtilitiesS.& P. 500P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 16.02007: 14.7STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 13.9S.& P. MIDCAP 400P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 18.52007: 16.1STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 17.2S.& P. SMALLCAP 600P/E RATIO* (ESTIMATED)2006: 17.42007: 16.7STOCK PRICE+ (YEARLY CHANGE)2006 YTD: 23.6*Earnings data through Nov. 14, price data through Tuesday. +Not including dividends.(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



587 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: CHECKING IN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Stick Around After Those Dull Meetings

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
WHEN the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center opens along the Potomac River in Prince George's County, Md., it will be one of the largest hotels on the East Coast, with 2,000 rooms and 470,000 square feet of convention space, as well as restaurants, a nightclub and a spa.
 This $800 million complex will be the centerpiece of a veritable small city called National Harbor, being developed on the river near Washington by the Peterson Companies of Fairfax, Va. But the Gaylord National's opening, set for April 2008, will also show the continued growth of a class of hotels: the convention-resort destination.
''About six years ago, we said we can take this model and go across the country with it,'' said John Caparella, the chief operating officer of Gaylord Hotels, which opened the 2,881-room Opryland USA complex at its Nashville headquarters in 1977. 
 In recent years the company has developed the 1,406-room Gaylord Palms resort outside Orlando, Fla., and the 1,511-room Gaylord Texan resort in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. It is also developing plans for another megahotel on the Chula Vista, Calif., bayfront near San Diego.
 ''Meeting planners and convention planners have told us what they want: first-class meeting space with great entertainment and great restaurants,'' Mr. Caparella said.
 The Gaylord National, which will occupy about 40 acres, will include an exhibit hall with 17 loading docks and three ballrooms, along with an Old Hickory Steakhouse and other restaurants, a salon and fitness center and an 11,000-square-foot marina and pier on the Potomac.
 The rest of National Harbor will be built over the next five years; it is to include 2,500 residential units, more than 500,000 square feet of office space and about one million square feet of retail shops on more than 300 acres, according to Milton V. Peterson, the founder and chairman of the Peterson Companies. The main thoroughfare of the development is being modeled after Las Ramblas in Barcelona, Spain. 
 Other hotels at the $4 billion National Harbor development, Mr. Peterson said, will include a 195-room Westin, a 162-room Marriott Residence Inn, a 151-room Hampton Inn and Suites, and, to open near the end of 2008, a 186-room Aloft brand hotel from Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and a 250-unit Wyndham Vacation Ownership time share, for a total of 2,944 units, including those at the Gaylord National. 
 By the time National Harbor is completed, Mr. Peterson says, he hopes that there will be 4,000 hotel rooms under various brands. He says he has had no trouble attracting hotel companies. 
 He notes that Washington is one of the most popular cities for tourism in the country. ''People love to come to the world's capital, and now their families can come, too,'' he said. ''The conventioneer gets a two-fer.'' 
 (National Harbor is about 15 minutes from Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and about 45 minutes from Washington Dulles International Airport.)
 Gaylord expanded its projected room count for the Gaylord National to 2,000 from 1,500, Mr. Caparella said, in response to brisk advance bookings after the company announced the proposed hotel in October 2004. Already, he said, the hotel has booked enough business to keep it full for a year and a month. 
 The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, which typically attracts about 2,500 people to its conventions, is among the regular clients at Gaylord hotels and has reserved space for February 2009 at the Gaylord National.
 ''The one-stop shopping is a real plus for us,'' said Armand Castro, director of customer relations, who coordinates all of the company's dealer meetings. ''It's savings for us. We get all the folks to the destination, and they never have to leave.''
 Though conference-goers may stay on site for the duration of the event, some will come early or stay late, ''to take advantage of the attractions around the hotels,'' said Charles L. Sinclair, a spokesman for Goodyear Tire.
 The Gaylord National will make Prince George's County more competitive with Washington and other areas, said Kwasi Holman, president and chief executive of the Prince George's County Economic Development Corporation. Some hotel managers and convention industry leaders in Washington, meanwhile, have expressed concern that the convention-resort-destination model will hurt their business. 
 The district has lost myriad rooms at larger hotels in recent years to condominium conversions, and while 2.3 million square feet of convention space is now available at the new Washington Convention Center, there is no affiliated hotel to serve it as yet. A 1,434-room, $550 million hotel is being developed by Marriott and is set to open next to the convention center around 2010, according to Norman Jenkins, senior vice president for North American lodging development at Marriott International.
 In the meantime, however, the district's largest hotel, the 1,300-room Marriott Wardman Park, has lost several conferences to the Gaylord National, according to William A. Hanbury, president and chief executive of the Washington Convention and Tourism Corporation.
 Joe Stern, senior director of sales and marketing at the Grand Hyatt Washington, which has 888 rooms and 40,000 square feet of meeting space, says he perceives the Gaylord National as ''a destination competition more than a hotel competition.''
 ''The reality is, the National Harbor project, which is in Prince George's County and not Washington, D.C., is a mini-city and convention center,'' he said.
 Mr. Stern said he worried that relatively few guests at the Gaylord National would venture in to visit the district's restaurants. If the district loses conventioneers, it also loses revenue from the 14.5 percent lodging and sales taxes. 
 Gaylord's hotel in the Dallas-Fort Worth area has lured many more area residents than anticipated to its restaurants and nightclub, according to the company. And a recent report by PricewaterhouseCoopers found that the proposed Gaylord hotel near San Diego would siphon off business from the city's convention center and downtown hotels.
 But Mr. Caparella says a significant part of the advance business booked at the Gaylord National consists of repeat customers of Gaylord hotels. ''The fact is there are conventions that take place in Washington, D.C., that are looking at our property as well,'' he said. ''But 45 percent of the business we have booked is business that already comes to our other hotels, so we're obviously bringing new business to the region.''
 Mr. Jenkins says Marriott is not worried about the Gaylord National draining business from its Marriott Wardman or the convention hotel planned for the district's downtown area. ''A lot of people want to be in Washington,'' he said. ''Everyone wants to be at the center of government, and I think that all these hotel rooms are just going to unleash some pent-up demand.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center, under construction at left, will be the centerpiece of National Harbor (rendering above), a large mixed-use development on the Potomac River outside Washington. National Harbor's developer says he hopes that it will eventually have 4,000 hotel rooms under various brands. (Photo by above, Gaylord Hotels
 photograph below by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (91%); RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); EXECUTIVES (54%); RETAILERS (50%) Hotels and Motels; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: PETERSON COS LC (73%); A MANZONI & C SPA (72%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (62%); RESIDENCE INN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center; Peterson Cos

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (73%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (73%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (72%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (62%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (62%)

PERSON: Alison Gregor

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (55%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%) Potomac River; Prince George's County (Md); Maryland

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



588 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: In Class Warfare, Guess Which Class Is Winning 

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
NOT long ago, I had the pleasure of a lengthy meeting with one of the smartest men on the planet, Warren E. Buffett, the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, in his unpretentious offices in Omaha. We talked of many things that, I hope, will inspire me for years to come. But one of the main subjects was taxes. Mr. Buffett, who probably does not feel sick when he sees his MasterCard bill in his mailbox the way I do, is at least as exercised about the tax system as I am.
 Put simply, the rich pay a lot of taxes as a total percentage of taxes collected, but they don't pay a lot of taxes as a percentage of what they can afford to pay, or as a percentage of what the government needs to close the deficit gap.
Mr. Buffett compiled a data sheet of the men and women who work in his office. He had each of them make a fraction; the numerator was how much they paid in federal income tax and in payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare, and the denominator was their taxable income. The people in his office were mostly secretaries and clerks, though not all. 
 It turned out that Mr. Buffett, with immense income from dividends and capital gains, paid far, far less as a fraction of his income than the secretaries or the clerks or anyone else in his office. Further, in conversation it came up that Mr. Buffett doesn't use any tax planning at all. He just pays as the Internal Revenue Code requires. ''How can this be fair?'' he asked of how little he pays relative to his employees. ''How can this be right?''
 Even though I agreed with him, I warned that whenever someone tried to raise the issue, he or she was accused of fomenting class warfare.
 ''There's class warfare, all right,'' Mr. Buffett said, ''but it's my class, the rich class, that's making war, and we're winning.''
 This conversation keeps coming back to mind because, in the last couple of weeks, I have been on one television panel after another, talking about how questionable it is that the country is enjoying what economists call full employment while we are still running a federal budget deficit of roughly $434 billion for fiscal 2006 (not counting off-budget items like Social Security) and economists forecast that it will grow to $567 billion in fiscal 2010. 
 When I mentioned on these panels that we should consider all options for closing this gap -- including raising taxes, particularly for the wealthiest people -- I was met with several arguments by people who call themselves conservatives and free marketers.
 One argument was that the mere suggestion constituted class warfare. I think Mr. Buffett answered that one.
 Another argument was that raising taxes actually lowers total revenue, and that only cutting taxes stimulates federal revenue. This is supposedly proved by the history of tax receipts since my friend George W. Bush became president.
 In fact, the federal government collected roughly $1.004 trillion in income taxes from individuals in fiscal 2000, the last full year of President Bill Clinton's merry rule. It fell to a low of $794 billion in 2003 after Mr. Bush's tax cuts (but not, you understand, because of them, his supporters like to say). Only by the end of fiscal 2006 did income tax revenue surpass the $1 trillion level again. 
 By this time, we Republicans had added a mere $2.7 trillion to the national debt. So much for tax cuts adding to revenue. To be fair, corporate profits taxes have increased greatly, as corporate profits have increased stupendously. This may be because of the cut in corporate tax rates. Anything is possible.
 The third argument that kind, well-meaning people made in response to the idea of rolling back the tax cuts was this: ''Don't raise taxes. Cut spending.'' 
 The sad fact is that spending rises every year, no matter what people want or say they want. Every president and every member of Congress promises to cut ''needless'' spending. But spending has risen every year since 1940 except for a few years after World War II and a brief period after the Korean War. 
 The imperatives for spending are built into the system, and now, with entitlements expanding rapidly, increased spending is locked in. Medicare, Social Security, interest on the debt -- all are growing like mad, and how they will ever be stopped or slowed is beyond imagining. Gross interest on Treasury debt is approaching $350 billion a year. And none of this counts major deferred maintenance for the military.
 The fourth argument in response to my suggestion was that ''deficits don't matter.'' 
 There is something to this. One would think that big deficits would be highly inflationary, according to Keynesian economics. But we have modest inflation (except in New York City, where a martini at a good bar is now $22). On the other hand, we have all that interest to pay, soon roughly $7 billion a week, a lot of it to overseas owners of our debt. This, to me, seems to matter.
 Besides, if it doesn't matter, why bother to even discuss balancing the budget? Why have taxes at all? Why not just print money the way Weimar Germany did? Why not abolish taxes and add trillions to the deficit each year? Why don't we all just drop acid, turn on, tune in and drop out of responsibility in the fiscal area? If deficits don't matter, why not spend as much as we want, on anything we want?
 The final argument is the one I really love. People ask how I can be a conservative and still want higher taxes. It makes my head spin, and I guess it shows how old I am. But I thought that conservatives were supposed to like balanced budgets. I thought it was the conservative position to not leave heavy indebtedness to our grandchildren. I thought it was the conservative view that there should be some balance between income and outflow. When did this change? 
 Oh, now, now, now I recall. It changed when we figured that we could cut taxes and generate so much revenue that we would balance the budget. But isn't that what doctors call magical thinking? Haven't the facts proved that this theory, though charming and beguiling, was wrong?
 THIS brings me back to Mr. Buffett. If, in fact, it's all just a giveaway to the rich masquerading as a new way of stimulating the economy and balancing the budget, please, Mr. Bush, let's rethink it. I don't like paying $7 billion a week in interest on the debt. I don't like the idea that Mr. Buffett pays a lot less in tax as a percentage of his income than my housekeeper does or than I do. 
 Can we really say that we're showing fiscal prudence? Are we doing our best? If not, why not? I don't want class warfare from any direction, through the tax system or any other way.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX PLANNING (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); MEDICARE (68%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (60%) Taxation

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%) Warren E Buffett; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



589 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 8583 words

HEADLINE: What It Takes To Make a Student

BYLINE: By Paul Tough. 
Paul Tough is an editor at the magazine. He is writing a book about the Harlem Children's Zone, a community organization.

 BODY:
On the morning of Oct. 5, President Bush and his education secretary, Margaret Spellings, paid a visit, along with camera crews from CNN and Fox News, to Friendship-Woodridge Elementary and Middle Campus, a charter public school in Washington. The president dropped in on two classrooms, where he asked the students, almost all of whom were African-American and poor, if they were planning to go to college. Every hand went up. ''See, that's a good sign,'' the president told the students when they assembled later in the gym. ''Going to college is an important goal for the future of the United States of America.'' He singled out one student, a black eighth grader named Asia Goode, who came to Woodridge four years earlier reading ''well below grade level.'' But things had changed for Asia, according to the president. ''Her teachers stayed after school to tutor her, and she caught up,'' he said. ''Asia is now an honors student. She loves reading, and she sings in the school choir.'' 
Bush's Woodridge trip came in the middle of a tough midterm election campaign, and there was certainly some short-term political calculation in being photographed among smiling black faces. But this was more than a photo opportunity. The president had come to Woodridge to talk about the most ambitious piece of domestic legislation his administration had enacted after almost six years in office: No Child Left Behind. The controversial education law, which established a series of standards for schools and states to meet and a variety of penalties for falling short, is up for reauthorization next year in front of a potentially hostile Congress, and for the law to win approval again, the White House will have to convince Americans that it is working -- and also convince them of exactly what, in this case, ''working'' really means. 
 When the law took effect, at the beginning of 2002, official Washington was preoccupied with foreign affairs, and many people in government, and many outside it too, including the educators most affected by the legislation, seemed slow to take notice of its most revolutionary provision: a pledge to eliminate, in just 12 years, the achievement gap between black and white students, and the one between poor and middle-class students. By 2014, the president vowed, African-American, Hispanic and poor children, all of whom were at the time scoring well below their white counterparts and those in the middle class on standardized tests, would not only catch up with the rest of the nation; they would also reach 100 percent proficiency in both math and reading. It was a startling commitment, and it made the promise in the law's title a literal one: the federal government would not allow a single American child to be educated to less than that high standard.
 It was this element of the law that the president had come to Woodridge to talk about. ''There's an achievement gap in America that's not good for the future of this country,'' he told the crowd. ''Some kids can read at grade level, and some can't. And that's unsatisfactory.'' 
 But there was good news, the president concluded: ''I'm proud to report the achievement gap between white kids and minority students is closing, for the good of the United States.''
 This contention -- that the achievement gap is on its way to the dustbin of history -- is one that Bush and Spellings have expressed frequently in the past year. And the gap better be closing: the law is coming up on its fifth anniversary. In just seven more years, if the promise of No Child Left Behind is going to be kept, the performances of white and black students have to be indistinguishable. 
 But despite the glowing reports from the White House and the Education Department, the most recent iteration of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, the test of fourth- and eighth-grade students commonly referred to as the nation's report card, is not reassuring. In 2002, when No Child Left Behind went into effect, 13 percent of the nation's black eighth-grade students were ''proficient'' in reading, the assessment's standard measure of grade-level competence. By 2005 (the latest data), that number had dropped to 12 percent. (Reading proficiency among white eighth-grade students dropped to 39 percent, from 41 percent.) The gap between economic classes isn't disappearing, either: in 2002, 17 percent of poor eighth-grade students (measured by eligibility for free or reduced-price school lunches) were proficient in reading; in 2005, that number fell to 15 percent.
 The most promising indications in the national test could be found in the fourth-grade math results, in which the percentage of poor students at the proficient level jumped to 19 percent in 2005, from 8 percent in 2000; for black students, the number jumped to 13 percent, from 5 percent. This was a significant increase, but it was still far short of the proficiency figure for white students, which rose to 47 percent in 2005, and it was a long way from 100 percent. 
 In the first few years of this decade, two parallel debates about the achievement gap have emerged. The first is about causes; the second is about cures. The first has been taking place in academia, among economists and anthropologists and sociologists who are trying to figure out exactly where the gap comes from, why it exists and why it persists. The second is happening among and around a loose coalition of schools, all of them quite new, all established with the goal of wiping out the achievement gap altogether.
 The two debates seem barely to overlap -- the principals don't pay much attention to the research papers being published in scholarly journals, and the academics have yet to study closely what is going on in these schools. Examined together, though, they provide a complete and nuanced picture, sometimes disheartening, sometimes hopeful, of what the president and his education officials are up against as they strive to keep the promise they have made. The academics have demonstrated just how deeply pervasive and ingrained are the intellectual and academic disadvantages that poor and minority students must overcome to compete with their white and middle-class peers. The divisions between black and white and rich and poor begin almost at birth, and they are reinforced every day of a child's life. And yet the schools provide evidence that the president is, in his most basic understanding of the problem, entirely right: the achievement gap can be overcome, in a convincing way, for large numbers of poor and minority students, not in generations but in years. What he and others seem not to have apprehended quite yet is the magnitude of the effort that will be required for that change to take place. 
 But the evidence is becoming difficult to ignore: when educators do succeed at educating poor minority students up to national standards of proficiency, they invariably use methods that are radically different and more intensive than those employed in most American public schools. So as the No Child Left Behind law comes up for reauthorization next year, Americans are facing an increasingly stark choice: is the nation really committed to guaranteeing that all of the country's students will succeed to the same high level? And if so, how hard are we willing to work, and what resources are we willing to commit, to achieve that goal?
 In the years after World War II, and especially after the civil rights reforms of the 1960s, black Americans' standardized-test scores improved steadily and significantly, compared with those of whites. But at some point in the late 1980s, after decades of progress, the narrowing of the gap stalled, and between 1988 and 1994 black reading scores actually fell by a sizable amount on the national assessment. What had appeared to be an inexorable advance toward equality had run out of steam, and African-American schoolchildren seemed to be stuck well behind their white peers. 
 The issue was complicated by the fact that there are really two overlapping test-score gaps: the one between black children and white children, and the one between poor children and better-off children. Given that those categories tend to overlap -- black children are three times as likely to grow up in poverty as white children -- many people wondered whether focusing on race was in fact a useful approach. Why not just concentrate on correcting the academic disadvantages of poor people? Solve those, and the black-white gap will solve itself. 
 There had, in fact, been evidence for a long time that poor children fell behind rich and middle-class children early, and stayed behind. But researchers had been unable to isolate the reasons for the divergence. Did rich parents have better genes? Did they value education more? Was it that rich parents bought more books and educational toys for their children? Was it because they were more likely to stay married than poor parents? Or was it that rich children ate more nutritious food? Moved less often? Watched less TV? Got more sleep? Without being able to identify the important factors and eliminate the irrelevant ones, there was no way even to begin to find a strategy to shrink the gap. 
 Researchers began peering deep into American homes, studying up close the interactions between parents and children. The first scholars to emerge with a specific culprit in hand were Betty Hart and Todd R. Risley, child psychologists at the University of Kansas, who in 1995 published the results of an intensive research project on language acquisition. Ten years earlier, they recruited 42 families with newborn children in Kansas City, and for the following three years they visited each family once a month, recording absolutely everything that occurred between the child and the parent or parents. The researchers then transcribed each encounter and analyzed each child's language development and each parent's communication style. They found, first, that vocabulary growth differed sharply by class and that the gap between the classes opened early. By age 3, children whose parents were professionals had vocabularies of about 1,100 words, and children whose parents were on welfare had vocabularies of about 525 words. The children's I.Q.'s correlated closely to their vocabularies. The average I.Q. among the professional children was 117, and the welfare children had an average I.Q. of 79.
 When Hart and Risley then addressed the question of just what caused those variations, the answer they arrived at was startling. By comparing the vocabulary scores with their observations of each child's home life, they were able to conclude that the size of each child's vocabulary correlated most closely to one simple factor: the number of words the parents spoke to the child. That varied greatly across the homes they visited, and again, it varied by class. In the professional homes, parents directed an average of 487 ''utterances'' -- anything from a one-word command to a full soliloquy -- to their children each hour. In welfare homes, the children heard 178 utterances per hour. 
 What's more, the kinds of words and statements that children heard varied by class. The most basic difference was in the number of ''discouragements'' a child heard -- prohibitions and words of disapproval -- compared with the number of encouragements, or words of praise and approval. By age 3, the average child of a professional heard about 500,000 encouragements and 80,000 discouragements. For the welfare children, the situation was reversed: they heard, on average, about 75,000 encouragements and 200,000 discouragements. Hart and Risley found that as the number of words a child heard increased, the complexity of that language increased as well. As conversation moved beyond simple instructions, it blossomed into discussions of the past and future, of feelings, of abstractions, of the way one thing causes another -- all of which stimulated intellectual development. 
 Hart and Risley showed that language exposure in early childhood correlated strongly with I.Q. and academic success later on in a child's life. Hearing fewer words, and a lot of prohibitions and discouragements, had a negative effect on I.Q.; hearing lots of words, and more affirmations and complex sentences, had a positive effect on I.Q. The professional parents were giving their children an advantage with every word they spoke, and the advantage just kept building up.
 In the years since Hart and Risley published their findings, social scientists have examined other elements of the parent-child relationship, and while their methods have varied, their conclusions all point to big class differences in children's intellectual growth. Jeanne Brooks-Gunn, a professor at Teachers College, has overseen hundreds of interviews of parents and collected thousands of hours of videotape of parents and children, and she and her research team have graded each one on a variety of scales. Their conclusion: Children from more well-off homes tend to experience parental attitudes that are more sensitive, more encouraging, less intrusive and less detached -- all of which, they found, serves to increase I.Q. and school-readiness. They analyzed the data to see if there was something else going on in middle-class homes that could account for the advantage but found that while wealth does matter, child-rearing style matters more. 
 Martha Farah, a researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, has built on Brooks-Gunn's work, using the tools of neuroscience to calculate exactly which skills poorer children lack and which parental behaviors affect the development of those skills. She has found, for instance, that the ''parental nurturance'' that middle-class parents, on average, are more likely to provide stimulates the brain's medial temporal lobe, which in turn aids the development of memory skills. 
 Another researcher, an anthropologist named Annette Lareau, has investigated the same question from a cultural perspective. Over the course of several years, Lareau and her research assistants observed a variety of families from different class backgrounds, basically moving in to each home for three weeks of intensive scrutiny. Lareau found that the middle-class families she studied all followed a similar strategy, which she labeled concerted cultivation. The parents in these families engaged their children in conversations as equals, treating them like apprentice adults and encouraging them to ask questions, challenge assumptions and negotiate rules. They planned and scheduled countless activities to enhance their children's development -- piano lessons, soccer games, trips to the museum. 
 The working-class and poor families Lareau studied did things differently. In fact, they raised their children the way most parents, even middle-class parents, did a generation or two ago. They allowed their children much more freedom to fill in their afternoons and weekends as they chose -- playing outside with cousins, inventing games, riding bikes with friends -- but much less freedom to talk back, question authority or haggle over rules and consequences. Children were instructed to defer to adults and treat them with respect. This strategy Lareau named accomplishment of natural growth.
 In her book ''Unequal Childhoods,'' published in 2003, Lareau described the costs and benefits of each approach and concluded that the natural-growth method had many advantages. Concerted cultivation, she wrote, ''places intense labor demands on busy parents. ... Middle-class children argue with their parents, complain about their parents' incompetence and disparage parents' decisions.'' Working-class and poor children, by contrast, ''learn how to be members of informal peer groups. They learn how to manage their own time. They learn how to strategize.'' But outside the family unit, Lareau wrote, the advantages of ''natural growth'' disappear. In public life, the qualities that middle-class children develop are consistently valued over the ones that poor and working-class children develop. Middle-class children become used to adults taking their concerns seriously, and so they grow up with a sense of entitlement, which gives them a confidence, in the classroom and elsewhere, that less-wealthy children lack. The cultural differences translate into a distinct advantage for middle-class children in school, on standardized achievement tests and, later in life, in the workplace. 
 Taken together, the conclusions of these researchers can be a little unsettling. Their work seems to reduce a child's upbringing, which to a parent can feel something like magic, to a simple algorithm: give a child X, and you get Y. Their work also suggests that the disadvantages that poverty imposes on children aren't primarily about material goods. True, every poor child would benefit from having more books in his home and more nutritious food to eat (and money certainly makes it easier to carry out a program of concerted cultivation). But the real advantages that middle-class children gain come from more elusive processes: the language that their parents use, the attitudes toward life that they convey. However you measure child-rearing, middle-class parents tend to do it differently than poor parents -- and the path they follow in turn tends to give their children an array of advantages. As Lareau points out, kids from poor families might be nicer, they might be happier, they might be more polite -- but in countless ways, the manner in which they are raised puts them at a disadvantage in the measures that count in contemporary American society.
 What would it take to overcome these disadvantages? Does poverty itself need to be eradicated, or can its effects on children somehow be counteracted? Can the culture of child-rearing be changed in poor neighborhoods, and if so, is that a project that government or community organizations have the ability, or the right, to take on? Is it enough simply to educate poor children in the same way that middle-class children are educated? And can any school, on its own, really provide an education to poor minority students that would allow them to achieve the same results as middle-class students?
 There is, in fact, evidence emerging that some schools are succeeding at the difficult task of educating poor minority students to high levels of achievement. But there is still great disagreement about just how many schools are pulling this off and what those successful schools mean for the rest of the American education system. One well-publicized evaluation of those questions has come from the Education Trust, a policy group in Washington that has issued a series of reports making the case that there are plenty of what they call ''high flying'' schools, which they define as high-poverty or high-minority schools whose students score in the top third of all schools in their state. The group's landmark report, published in December 2001, identified 1,320 ''high flying'' schools nationwide that were both high-poverty and high minority. This was a big number, and it had a powerful effect on the debate over the achievement gap. The pessimists -- those who believed that the disadvantages of poverty were all but impossible to overcome in public schools -- were dealt a serious blow. If the report's figures held up, it meant that high achievement for poor minority kids was not some one-in-a-million occurrence; it was happening all the time, all around us.
 But in the years since the report's release, its conclusions have been challenged by scholars and analysts who have argued that the Education Trust made it too easy to be included on their list. To be counted as a high-flier, a school needed to receive a high score in only one subject in one grade in one year. If your school had a good fourth-grade reading score, it was on the list, even if all its other scores were mediocre. To many researchers, that was an unconvincing standard of academic success. Douglas Harris, a professor of education and economics at Florida State University, pored over Education Trust's data, trying to ascertain how many of the high-flying schools were able to register consistently good numbers. When he tightened the definition of success to include only schools that had high scores in two subjects in two different grades over two different years, Harris could find only 23 high-poverty, high-minority schools in the Education Trust's database, a long way down from 1,320.
 That number isn't exhaustive; Harris says he has no doubt that there are some great schools that slipped through his data sieve. But his results still point to a very different story than the one the original report told. Education Trust officials intended their data to refute the idea that family background is the leading cause of student performance. But on closer examination, their data largely confirm that idea, demonstrating clearly that the best predictors of a school's achievement scores are the race and wealth of its student body. A public school that enrolls mostly well-off white kids has a 1 in 4 chance of earning consistently high test scores, Harris found; a school with mostly poor minority kids has a 1 in 300 chance.
 Despite those long odds, the last decade -- and especially the last few years -- have seen the creation of dozens, even hundreds, of schools across the country dedicated to precisely that mission: delivering consistently high results with a population that generally achieves consistently low results. The schools that have taken on this mission most aggressively tend to be charter schools -- the publicly financed, privately run institutions that make up one of the most controversial educational experiments of our time. Because charters exist outside the control of public-school boards and are generally not required to adhere to union contracts with their teachers, they have attracted significant opposition, and their opponents are able to point to plenty of evidence that the charter project has failed. Early charter advocates claimed the schools would raise test scores across the board, and that hasn't happened; nationally, scores for charter-school students are the same as or lower than scores for public-school students. But by another measure, charter schools have succeeded: by allowing educators to experiment in ways that they generally can't inside public-school systems, they have led to the creation of a small but growing corps of schools with new and ambitious methods for educating students facing real academic challenges. 
 In the early years of the charter-school movement, every school was an island, trying out its own mad or brilliant educational theory. But as charter-school proponents have studied the successes and learned from the mistakes of their predecessors, patterns, even a consensus, have begun to emerge. The schools that are achieving the most impressive results with poor and minority students tend to follow three practices. First, they require many more hours of class time than a typical public school. The school day starts early, at 8 a.m. or before, and often continues until after 4 p.m. These schools offer additional tutoring after school as well as classes on Saturday mornings, and summer vacation usually lasts only about a month. The schools try to leaven those long hours with music classes, foreign languages, trips and sports, but they spend a whole lot of time going over the basics: reading and math.
 Second, they treat classroom instruction and lesson planning as much as a science as an art. Explicit goals are set for each year, month and day of each class, and principals have considerable authority to redirect and even remove teachers who aren't meeting those goals. The schools' leaders believe in frequent testing, which, they say, lets them measure what is working and what isn't, and they use test results to make adjustments to the curriculum as they go. Teachers are trained and retrained, frequently observed and assessed by their principals and superintendents. There is an emphasis on results but also on ''team building'' and cooperation and creativity, and the schools seem, to an outsider at least, like genuinely rewarding places to work, despite the long hours. They tend to attract young, enthusiastic teachers, including many alumni of Teach for America, the program that recruits graduates from top universities to work for two years in inner-city public schools. 
 Third, they make a conscious effort to guide the behavior, and even the values, of their students by teaching what they call character. Using slogans, motivational posters, incentives, encouragements and punishments, the schools direct students in everything from the principles of teamwork and the importance of an optimistic outlook to the nuts and bolts of how to sit in class, where to direct their eyes when a teacher is talking and even how to nod appropriately. 
 The schools are, in the end, a counterintuitive combination of touchy-feely idealism and intense discipline. Their guiding philosophy is in many ways a reflection of the findings of scholars like Lareau and Hart and Risley -- like those academics, these school leaders see childhood as a series of inputs and outputs. When students enroll in one of these schools (usually in fifth or sixth grade), they are often two or more grade levels behind. Usually they have missed out on many of the millions of everyday intellectual and emotional stimuli that their better-off peers have been exposed to since birth. They are, educationally speaking, in deep trouble. The schools reject the notion that all that these struggling students need are high expectations; they do need those, of course, but they also need specific types and amounts of instruction, both in academics and attitude, to compensate for everything they did not receive in their first decade of life.
 It is still too early in the history of this nascent movement to say which schools are going to turn out to be the most successful with this new approach to the education of poor children. But so far, the most influential schools are the ones run by KIPP, or the Knowledge Is Power Program. KIPP's founders, David Levin and Michael Feinberg, met in 1992, when they were young college graduates enrolled in Teach for America, working in inner-city public schools in Houston. They struggled at first as teachers but were determined to figure out how to motivate and educate their students. Each night they would compare notes on what worked in the classroom -- songs, games, chants, rewards -- and, before long, both of them became expert classroom instructors.
 In the fall of 1994, Levin and Feinberg started a middle school in Houston, teaching just 50 students, and they named it KIPP. A year later, Levin moved to New York and started the second KIPP school, in the South Bronx. As the KIPP schools grew, Levin and Feinberg adhered to a few basic principles: their mission was to educate low-income and minority students. They would emphasize measurable results. And they would promise to do whatever it took to help their students succeed. They offered an extended day and an extended year that provided KIPP students with about 60 percent more time in school than most public-school students. They set clear and strict rules of conduct: their two principles of behavior were ''Work Hard'' and ''Be Nice,'' and all the other rules flowed out of those. At the beginning of each year, parents and students signed a pledge -- unenforceable but generally taken seriously -- committing to certain standards of hard work and behavior. Teachers gave students their cellphone numbers so students could call them at night for homework help.
 The methods raised students' test scores, and the schools began to attract the attention of the media and of philanthropists. A ''60 Minutes'' report on the schools in 1999 led to a $15 million grant from Doris and Donald Fisher, the founders of the Gap, and Feinberg and Levin began gradually to expand KIPP into a national network. Two years ago, they received $8 million from the Gates Foundation to create up to eight KIPP high schools. There are now 52 KIPP schools across the country, almost all middle schools, and together they are educating 12,000 children. The network is run on a franchise model; each school's principal has considerable autonomy, while quality control is exercised from the home office in San Francisco. Feinberg is the superintendent of KIPP's eight schools in Houston, and Levin is the superintendent of the four New York City schools. 
 KIPP is part of a loose coalition with two other networks of charter schools based in and around New York City. One is Achievement First, which grew out of the success of Amistad Academy, a charter school in New Haven that was founded in 1999. Achievement First now runs six schools in New Haven and Brooklyn. The other network is Uncommon Schools, which was started by a founder of North Star Academy in Newark along with principals from three acclaimed charter schools in Massachusetts; it now includes seven schools in Rochester, Newark and Brooklyn. The connections among the three networks are mostly informal, based on the friendships that bind Levin to Norman Atkins, the former journalist who founded North Star, and to Dacia Toll, the Rhodes scholar and Yale Law graduate who started Amistad with Doug McCurry, a former teacher. Toll and Atkins visited Levin at the Bronx KIPP Academy when they were setting up their original schools and studied the methods he was using; they later sent their principals to the leadership academy that Levin and Feinberg opened in 2000, and they have continued to model many of their practices on KIPP's. Now the schools are beginning to formalize their ties. As they each expand their charters to include high schools, Levin, Toll and Atkins are working on a plan to bring students from all three networks together under one roof. 
 Students at both KIPP and Achievement First schools follow a system for classroom behavior invented by Levin and Feinberg called Slant, which instructs them to sit up, listen, ask questions, nod and track the speaker with their eyes. When I visited KIPP Academy last month, I was standing with Levin at the front of a music class of about 60 students, listening to him talk, when he suddenly interrupted himself and pointed at me. ''Do you notice what he's doing right now?'' he asked the class.
 They all called out at once, ''Nodding!'' 
 Levin's contention is that Americans of a certain background learn these methods for taking in information early on and employ them instinctively. KIPP students, he says, need to be taught the methods explicitly. And so it is a little unnerving to stand at the front of a KIPP class; every eye is on you. When a student speaks, every head swivels to watch her. To anyone raised in the principles of progressive education, the uniformity and discipline in KIPP classrooms can be off-putting. But the kids I spoke to said they use the Slant method not because they fear they will be punished otherwise but because it works: it helps them to learn. (They may also like the feeling of having their classmates' undivided attention when they ask or answer a question.) When Levin asked the music class to demonstrate the opposite of Slanting -- ''Give us the normal school look,'' he said -- the students, in unison, all started goofing off, staring into space and slouching. Middle-class Americans know intuitively that ''good behavior'' is mostly a game with established rules; the KIPP students seemed to be experiencing the pleasure of being let in on a joke.
 Still, Levin says that the innovations a visitor to a KIPP school might notice first -- the Slanting and the walls festooned with slogans and mottos (''Team Always Beats Individual,'' ''All of Us Will Learn'') and the orderly rows of students walking in the hallways -- are not the only things contributing to the schools' success. Equally important, he says, are less visible practices: clear and coherent goals for each class; teachers who work 15 to 16 hours a day; careful lesson planning; and a decade's worth of techniques, tricks, games and chants designed to help vast amounts of information penetrate poorly educated brains very quickly. 
 Toll and Levin are influenced by the writings of a psychology professor from the University of Pennsylvania named Martin Seligman, the author of a series of books about positive psychology. Seligman, one of the first modern psychologists to study happiness, promotes a technique he calls learned optimism, and Toll and Levin consider it an essential part of the attitude they are trying to instill in their students. Last year, a graduate student of Seligman's named Angela Duckworth published with Seligman a research paper that demonstrated a guiding principle of these charter schools: in many situations, attitude is just as important as ability. Duckworth studied 164 eighth-grade students in Philadelphia, tracking each child's I.Q. as well as his or her score on a test that measured self-discipline and then correlating those two numbers with the student's G.P.A. Surprisingly, she found that the self-discipline scores were a more accurate predictor of G.P.A. than the I.Q. scores by a factor of two. Duckworth's paper connects with a new wave of research being done around the country showing that ''noncognitive'' abilities like self-control, adaptability, patience and openness -- the kinds of qualities that middle-class parents pass on to their children every day, in all kinds of subtle and indirect ways -- have a huge and measurable impact on a child's future success. 
 Levin considers Duckworth's work an indication of the practical side of the ''character'' education he and Toll and Atkins are engaged in: they want their students to be well behaved and hard-working and respectful because it's a good way to live but also because the evidence is clear that people who act that way get higher marks in school and better jobs after school. To Toll, a solid character is a basic building block of her students' education. ''I think we have to teach work ethic in the same way we have to teach adding fractions with unlike denominators,'' she told me. ''But once children have got the work ethic and the commitment to others and to education down, it's actually pretty easy to teach them. ''
 The schools that Toll, Atkins, Levin and Feinberg run are not racially integrated. Most of the 70 or so schools that make up their three networks have only one or two white children enrolled, or none at all. Although as charter schools, their admission is open through a lottery to any student in the cities they serve, their clear purpose is to educate poor black and Hispanic children. The guiding principle for the four school leaders, all of whom are white, is an unexpected twist on the ''separate but equal'' standard: they assert that for these students, an ''equal'' education is not good enough. Students who enter middle school significantly behind grade level don't need the same good education that most American middle-class students receive; they need a better education, because they need to catch up. Toll, especially, is preoccupied with the achievement gap: her schools' stated mission is to close the gap entirely. ''The promise in America is that if you work hard, if you make good decisions, that you'll be able to be successful,'' Toll explained to me. ''And given the current state of public education in a lot of our communities, that promise is just not true. There's not a level playing field.'' In Toll's own career, in fact, the goal of achieving equality came first, and the tool of education came later. When she was at Yale Law School, her plan was to become a civil rights lawyer, but she concluded that she could have more of an impact on the nation's inequities by founding a charter school.
 The methods these educators use seem to work: students at their schools consistently score well on statewide standardized tests. At North Star this year, 93 percent of eighth-grade students were proficient in language arts, compared with 83 percent of students in New Jersey as a whole; in math, 77 percent were proficient, compared with 71 percent of students in the state as a whole. At Amistad, proficiency scores for the sixth grade over the last few years range between the mid-30s and mid-40s, only a bit better than the averages for New Haven; by the eighth grade, they are in the 60s, 70s and 80s -- in every case exceeding Connecticut's average (itself one of the highest in the country). At KIPP's Bronx academy, the sixth, seventh and eighth grades had proficiency rates at least 12 percentage points above the state average on this year's statewide tests. And when the scores are compared with the scores of the specific high-poverty cities or neighborhoods where the schools are located -- in Newark, New Haven or the Bronx -- it isn't even close: 86 percent of eighth-grade students at KIPP Academy scored at grade level in math this year, compared with 16 percent of students in the South Bronx.
 The leaders of this informal network are now wrestling with an unintended consequence of their schools' positive results and high profiles: their incoming students are sometimes too good. At some schools, students arrive scoring better than typical children in their neighborhoods, presumably because the school's reputation is attracting more-engaged parents with better-prepared kids to its admission lottery. Even though almost every student at the KIPP Academy in the Bronx, for example, is from a low-income family, and all but a few are either black or Hispanic, and most enter below grade level, they are still a step above other kids in the neighborhood; on their math tests in the fourth grade (the year before they arrived at KIPP), KIPP students in the Bronx scored well above the average for the district, and on their fourth-grade reading tests they often scored above the average for the entire city. 
 At most schools, well-prepared incoming students would be seen as good news. But at these charter schools, they can be a mixed blessing. Although the schools have demonstrated an impressive and consistent ability to turn below-average poor minority students into above-average students, another part of their mission is to show that even the most academically challenged students can succeed using their methods. But if not enough of those students are attending their schools, it's hard to make that point. North Star's leaders say this problem doesn't apply to them: the school's fifth-grade students come in with scores that are no higher than the Newark average. At KIPP, Levin and other officials I talked to say that their schools do what they can to recruit applicants who are representative of the neighborhoods they serve, but they also say that once a class is chosen (and at all the charter schools, it is chosen by random lottery), their job is to educate those children to the best of their ability. Dacia Toll is more focused on the issue; she says that she and her principals make a special effort to recruit students from particularly blighted neighborhoods and housing projects in New Haven and Brooklyn and told me that it would ''absolutely be a cause for concern'' if Amistad seemed to be attracting students who were better-prepared than average. 
 The most persistent critic of KIPP's record has been Richard Rothstein, a former education columnist for The New York Times who is now a lecturer at Teachers College. He has asserted that KIPP's model cannot be replicated on a wide scale and argues that the elevated incoming scores at the Bronx school make it mostly irrelevant to the national debate over the achievement gap. Although Rothstein acknowledges that KIPP's students are chosen by lottery, he contends in his book ''Class and Schools'' that they are ''not typical lower-class students.'' The very fact that their parents would bother to enroll them in the lottery sets them apart from other inner-city children, he says, adding that there is ''no evidence'' that KIPP's strategy ''would be as successful for students whose parents are not motivated to choose such a school.'' 
 In some ways, the debate seems a trivial one -- KIPP is clearly doing a great job of educating its students; do the incoming scores at a single school really matter? But in fact, KIPP, along with Uncommon Schools and Achievement First, is now at the center of a heated political debate over just how much schools can accomplish, and that has brought with it a new level of public scrutiny. Beginning in the late 1990s, KIPP, Amistad and North Star were embraced by advocates from the right who believed in the whole menu of conservative positions on education: school choice, vouchers, merit pay for teachers. In 2001, the Heritage Foundation profiled the KIPP schools in a book called ''No Excuses: Lessons From 21 High-Performing, High-Poverty Schools,'' which set out to disprove ''the perennial claims of the education establishment that poor children are uneducable.'' Two years later, Abigail and Stephan Thernstrom, the well-known conservative writers about race, borrowed the Heritage Foundation's title (which was itself borrowed from a slogan popular at KIPP and other schools) for their own book on education, ''No Excuses: Closing the Racial Gap in Learning''; the book used the success of Amistad, North Star and, especially, KIPP to highlight the failings of the public-school system in serving poor children. If KIPP can successfully educate these kids, the Thernstroms asked, why can't every school?
 The Thernstroms argue that if we can just fix the schools where poor children are educated, it will become much easier to solve all the other problems of poverty. The opposing argument, which Rothstein and others have made, is that the problems of poor minority kids are simply too great to be overcome by any school, no matter how effective. He points to the work of Hart and Risley and Lareau and argues that the achievement gap can be significantly diminished only by correcting, or at least addressing, the deep inequities that divide the races and the classes.
 Levin and Toll sometimes seem surprised by the political company they are now keeping -- and by the opponents they have attracted. ''I'm a total liberal!'' Toll said, a little defensively, when I asked her recently about this political divide. Many charter advocates claim that the views of Democratic politicians on charter schools are clouded by the fact that they depend for both money and votes on the nation's teachers' unions, which are skeptical of charter schools and in some states have taken steps to block them from expanding. In Connecticut, the state teachers' union this year lobbied against a legislative change to allow for the expansion of Amistad Academy (it later passed), and the union's lawyers filed a Freedom of Information Act request that required Amistad to turn over all of its employment and pay records. The union's chief lobbyist told reporters in April that the state's charter law was intended only ''to create incubators of innovation. It was never to create a charter-school system.'' Amistad was acceptable as a small experiment, in other words, but there was no reason to let it grow. 
 Even if schools like KIPP are allowed to expand to meet the demand in the educational marketplace -- all of them have long waiting lists -- it is hard to imagine that, alone, they will be able to make much of a dent in the problem of the achievement gap; there are, after all, millions of poor and minority public-school students who aren't getting the education they need either at home or in the classroom. What these charter schools demonstrate, though, is the effort that would be required to provide those students with that education. 
 Toll put it this way: ''We want to change the conversation from 'You can't educate these kids' to 'You can only educate these kids if. ...' '' And to a great extent, she and the other principals have done so. The message inherent in the success of their schools is that if poor students are going to catch up, they will require not the same education that middle-class children receive but one that is considerably better; they need more time in class than middle-class students, better-trained teachers and a curriculum that prepares them psychologically and emotionally, as well as intellectually, for the challenges ahead of them. 
 Right now, of course, they are not getting more than middle-class students; they are getting less. For instance, nationwide, the best and most experienced teachers are allowed to choose where they teach. And since most state contracts offer teachers no bonus or incentive for teaching in a school with a high population of needy children, the best teachers tend to go where they are needed the least. A study that the Education Trust issued in June used data from Illinois to demonstrate the point. Illinois measures the quality of its teachers and divides their scores into four quartiles, and those numbers show glaring racial inequities. In majority-white schools, bad teachers are rare: just 11 percent of the teachers are in the lowest quartile. But in schools with practically no white students, 88 percent of the teachers are in the worst quartile. The same disturbing pattern holds true in terms of poverty. At schools where more than 90 percent of the students are poor -- where excellent teachers are needed the most -- just 1 percent of teachers are in the highest quartile. 
 Government spending on education does not tend to compensate for these inequities; in fact, it often makes them worse. Goodwin Liu, a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley, has compiled persuasive evidence for what he calls the country's ''education apartheid.'' In states with more poor children, spending per pupil is lower. In Mississippi, for instance, it is $5,391 a year; in Connecticut, it is $9,588. Most education financing comes from state and local governments, but the federal supplement for poor children, Title 1, is ''regressive,'' Liu points out, because it is tied to the amount each state spends. So the federal government gives Arkansas $964 to help educate each poor child in the state, and it gives Massachusetts $2,048 for each poor child there. 
 Without making a much more serious commitment to the education of poor and minority students, it is hard to see how the federal government will be able to deliver on the promise contained in No Child Left Behind. The law made states responsible for turning their poorest children into accomplished scholars in a little more than a decade -- a national undertaking on the order of a moon landing -- but provided them with little assistance or even direction as to how they might accomplish that goal. And recently, many advocates have begun to argue that the Education Department has quietly given up on No Child Left Behind. 
 The most malignant element of the original law was that it required all states to achieve proficiency but then allowed each state to define proficiency for itself. It took state governments a couple of years to realize just what that meant, but now they have caught on -- and many of them are engaged in an ignoble competition to see which state can demand the least of its students. At the head of this pack right now is Mississippi, which has declared 89 percent of its fourth-grade students to be proficient readers, the highest percentage in the nation, while in fact, the National Assessment of Educational Progress shows that only 18 percent of Mississippi fourth graders know how to read at an appropriate level -- the second-lowest score of any state. In the past year, Arizona, Maryland, Ohio, North Dakota and Idaho all followed Mississippi's lead and slashed their standards in order to allow themselves to label uneducated students educated. The federal government has permitted these maneuvers, and after several years of tough talk about enforcing the law's standards, the Education Department has in the past year begun cutting one deal after another with states that want to redefine ''success'' for their schools. (When I spoke to Spellings this month, she said she would ''appeal to the better angels of governors and state policy makers'' to keep their standards in line with national benchmarks.)
 The absence of any robust federal effort to improve high-poverty schools undercuts and distorts the debate over the responsibility for their problems. It is true, as the Thernstroms write in their book, that ''dysfunctional families and poverty are no excuse for widespread, chronic educational failure.'' But while those factors are not an excuse, they're certainly an explanation; as researchers like Lareau and Brooks-Gunn have made clear, poverty and dysfunction are enormous disadvantages for any child to overcome. When Levin and Feinberg began using the slogan ''No Excuses'' in the mid-1990s, they intended it to motivate their students and teachers, to remind them that within the context of a KIPP school, there would always be a way to achieve success. But when the conservative education movement adopted ''No Excuses'' as a slogan, the phrase was used much more broadly: if that rural Arkansas public school isn't achieving the success of a KIPP school, those responsible for its underachievement must simply be making excuses. The slogan came to suggest that what is going wrong in the schools is simply some sort of failure of will -- that teachers don't want to work hard, or don't believe in their students, or are succumbing to what the president calls ''the soft bigotry of low expectations'' -- while the reality is that even the best, most motivated educator, given just six hours a day and 10 months a year and nothing more than the typical resources provided to a public-school teacher, would find it near impossible to educate an average classroom of poor minority students up to the level of their middle-class peers. 
 The evidence is now overwhelming that if you take an average low-income child and put him into an average American public school, he will almost certainly come out poorly educated. What the small but growing number of successful schools demonstrate is that the public-school system accomplishes that result because we have built it that way. We could also decide to create a different system, one that educates most (if not all) poor minority students to high levels of achievement. It is not yet entirely clear what that system might look like -- it might include not only KIPP-like structures and practices but also high-quality early-childhood education, as well as incentives to bring the best teachers to the worst schools -- but what is clear is that it is within reach. 
 Although the failure of No Child Left Behind now seems more likely than not, it is not too late for it to succeed. We know now, in a way that we did not when the law was passed, what it would take to make it work. And if the law does, in the end, fail -- if in 2014 only 20 or 30 or 40 percent of the country's poor and minority students are proficient, then we will need to accept that its failure was not an accident and was not inevitable, but was the outcome we chose.


GRAPHIC: Photos: KIPP's mission is to give students like these fifth to eighth graders in the South Bronx an even better education than their white middle-class counterparts.
Mottos Matter: But coherent goals, clear lesson plans and teachers willing to put in 15-hour days matter even more at KIPP schools.
 Model Behavior: Kids like Niya Henry, a second grader at an Achievement First charter school in Brooklyn, learn a system for conduct -- to nod while listening to the teacher, for example -- along with reading and math. (Photographs by Justine Kurland for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%) Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Charter Schools; Education and Schools

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Kipp Foundation

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (73%) Paul Tough; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



590 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Overhauling Health Care: An Influential Union and Spitzer Align, for Now 

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
It is arguably the most fearsome independent political force in Albany, a union that provided the muscle that helped assure Gov. George E. Pataki's re-election to a third term. And before this year's election, the union, 1199 United Healthcare Workers East, told Eliot Spitzer that it would endorse him, too, at the time and place of his choosing, people with knowledge of the discussions said. 
 But after having received nearly $150,000 in political contributions over the years, Mr. Spitzer rebuffed the union and never asked for its public endorsement.
Now the governor-elect and the union, led by its longtime president, Dennis Rivera, are on something of a collision course as Mr. Spitzer seeks to overhaul the state's costly health care system, which is sure to include the closing of several hospitals. 
 Certainly, the giant health care workers union can be a considerable opponent, and its clout has been known to make or break candidates. This year, there were ample signs of the union's political muscle, from the roughly $3.5 million its political action committee donated to state candidates and parties to its hard-knuckled campaign this summer against Mr. Pataki's proposed budget cuts, which included a commercial that featured a weeping neonatal nurse practically accusing the governor of wanting to harm babies.
 But the union is facing a new governor who must grapple with a $2.5 billion deficit next year, one who has promised to increase education financing by billions of dollars, cut the number of uninsured New Yorkers in half and reduce property taxes by $6 billion over three years. 
 To help pay for all of this, Mr. Spitzer has said he will broadly overhaul the state's bloated health care system, which soaks up more than a quarter of all state spending; his various proposals could result in cuts of more than $1 billion annually in state and federal funds.
 ''These are going to be tough decisions,'' Mr. Spitzer said at a campaign stop in September. ''Nobody likes to hear that a hospital is going to close, or a wing of a hospital, or beds are going to be shifted, but that is what we have to do.''
 The first flashpoint will come Tuesday, when a special commission appointed by Governor Pataki is to make public its recommendations on hospital closings. 
 ''This is probably the most massive, dramatic, impactful reorganization of health care in New York State, and some people say in the history of the United States,'' Mr. Rivera said in a recent interview.
 Mr. Rivera has been tentatively supportive of the hospital closing process -- calling it ''unprecedented'' for a trade union to take such a stance -- though he is withholding final judgment until the commission releases its findings. Among the sticking points will be negotiating transition assistance for displaced workers. 
 ''We have always had a wonderful relationship with Governor-elect Spitzer and always had a good dialogue with him,'' Mr. Rivera said, ''so I have the expectation. And we hope and we pray, we keep the same dialogue going forward.'' 
 Both Mr. Rivera and his close ally, Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, say the governor must go beyond the recommendations of the hospital commission and spread cuts to the broader health care industry -- a step Mr. Spitzer has said he would take. 
 ''The thing that I, and Dennis, have encouraged the governor-elect to do is take an omnibus approach to health care policy and to look at medical spending in all of the quarters it comes in, including H.M.O.'s, big pharma, medical malpractice premiums and so on,'' Mr. Raske said.
 He added: ''You have a lot of people making money at the front end and the back end, but not the people who are giving the care, the hospitals. They're getting squeezed.''
 For his part, Mr. Spitzer said in a statement for this article, ''I look forward to working with all participants in restructuring the health care system to ensure coverage for all New Yorkers at a price we can afford.''
 Mr. Rivera, along with his political director, Jennifer Cunningham, have proved to be canny political operatives. Previous leaders of the union were known for their activism and advocacy for core Democratic issues, which led the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to refer to the union as ''the conscience of the labor movement.''
 But Mr. Rivera has been pragmatic, allying himself with Republicans, including Mr. Pataki during the last election and more closely with Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader.
 In Mr. Spitzer, the union faces a moderate Democrat intent on reining in state spending and upending the power structure that has long governed Albany. 
 Beyond the hospital closings, which Mr. Spitzer has said will bring tough medicine for a state that desperately needs a more rational health care system, other land mines lay ahead, including negotiations over the broader budget. There is also the expiration of the Health Care Reform Act next summer, which includes financing that reimburses hospitals for charity care of the uninsured, a critical revenue stream the hospitals that employ the union's members depend upon. 
 Further complicating matters are the union's close ties to the next attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo. The union endorsed him a year before the election and dispatched Ms. Cunningham to be a top adviser.
 ''It's hard to believe they won't cross swords,'' said Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''There'll be fallout from the Berger commission,'' he said, referring to the hospital closing commission by the name of its director, Stephen Berger.
 ''The governor-elect has said he'll spend a lot of effort on Medicaid fraud investigations; the Health Care Reform Act expires next year; and the major expansions in government services are being provided in large measure by greater efficiency in the health care system,'' Mr. Horner added. 
 Mr. Spitzer has said he wants to change the way the state reimburses hospitals for various services, so there is a greater emphasis on preventive care rather than costly procedures after a patient becomes ill. Such changes, however, will have considerable ramifications for certain hospitals and their workers. 
 There are, however, motives for the sides to find common ground. 
 The union is not eager to cross a new governor elected with such a sweeping mandate, and Mr. Spitzer and his staff see the health care workers union as a formidable opponent who can make trouble for their new agenda.
 Agreeing to the recommendations of the Berger commission will also be lucrative for the state, because the federal government has promised $300 million annually over five years if it does so.
 In a bid to keep the peace, Mr. Spitzer has appointed Mr. Rivera and Mr. Raske to be among the many members of his health care transition working group. 
 And the governor-elect's budgetary problems are being alleviated somewhat by improving economic conditions and the recent decision by the state Court of Appeals to sharply lower the money that needs to be spent to improve New York City public schools. But Mr. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, will be a powerful ally for the union. 
 Last week, he released a list of his four priorities for 2007, and included ''ensuring access to quality health care'' among them. 
 Last year, Mr. Bruno said, the Senate fought to ''restore more than $700 million in proposed budget cuts to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers.''
 ''In 2007,'' he added, ''the Senate will not support gratuitous cuts to health care.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CLOSINGS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: United Healthcare Workers East

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Dennis Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



591 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Administration Is Developing Land Use Plan to Accommodate Future Populations

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Faced with a shrinking inventory of vacant land, the Bloomberg administration next month will unveil its goals for accommodating the city's growing population over the next 25 years and the municipal services that nine million or more New Yorkers will require. 
 Chief among the priorities of the mayor's Sustainability Advisory Board, led by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, is how to reclaim as many as 1,700 acres of polluted land -- brownfields and other former industrial parcels -- and transform them into environmentally sound sites for schools, apartments and parks. 
Among the other goals being explored by the 17-member board, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appointed in September, are improving commuting times (at 39 minutes on average, now the highest of any big city in the nation), maintaining and protecting the drinking water supply, reducing sewage overflow into the city's surrounding waterways during stormy weather, and reconciling the region's growing energy needs with clean-air standards. 
 The board is expected to outline its draft agenda by the end of next month, then place it before civic groups and the public for further debate. In mid-2007, the mayor will present its final goals -- and strategies to achieve them. 
 Driven by higher birth rates among Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers, the influx of about 100,000 immigrants a year and a housing boom that is attracting newcomers to each borough, the city's population hit another peak last year, of 8.2 million. If those trends persist, the population is projected to reach at least nine million in the 2020's. 
 Responding to the mayor's pledge in his State of the City address last January to produce a ''strategic land use plan'' to deal with a city of nine million people, Mr. Doctoroff said: ''We have the capacity through rezoning and underutilized land to go well over that number. But you cannot simply divorce the issue of growth from the infrastructure required to support it.
 ''It opens up great opportunities only if the growth is smart,'' he said at the time, explaining that growth that fosters economic development could, for instance, help balance the city's budget.
 ''Growth for its own sake is not necessarily good,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We have a structural budget deficit. You want to ensure that the growth that takes place helps to ameliorate that deficit rather than exacerbates it.'' 
 City officials declined to publicly elaborate on their proposals in advance of the advisory board's announcement. But some of its goals were foreshadowed by two of the largest rezoning revisions in city history -- of the Brooklyn waterfront in Greenpoint and Williamsburg and the Far West Side of Manhattan -- both driven by Mr. Doctoroff. 
 The two major zoning changes, coupled with other development proposals, including the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, were aimed at revitalizing underutilized land for economic development and expanding the city's property tax base. The zoning changes were accomplished, in part, by tying them to the city's timetable to apply for the 2012 Olympic Games. 
 The city lost its Olympic bid, which included the ill-fated proposal for combining a stadium for the Olympics and the Jets with an expanded convention center on the West Side. But Mr. Doctoroff maintains that he also viewed the Olympics as a vehicle to drive the sort of longer-range planning in which local governments rarely have the resources, or the vision, to indulge. 
 ''Ultimately the most important point was to finally create the conditions for the West Side to develop,'' he said. 
 The stadium proposal itself generated the most criticism, and even some of Mr. Doctoroff's supporters said he did not do enough political spadework to see it through. But Mr. Bloomberg, among others, says that Mr. Doctoroff has not gotten his due. 
 ''Doctoroff, by the time he gets done,'' Mr. Bloomberg said recently, ''will have a greater impact on this city, I think, than Robert Moses, in a much more democratic world where there's a lot more community input and a lot more supervision from the courts and the Legislature.'' 
 Planners who were interviewed agreed that the biggest growth constraint that the city faced was accommodating nine million people within its boundaries. Unlike newer cities in the South or the West, New York is not empowered to expand by annexing neighboring communities. But developers are seeing new possibilities for land that was once the site of industry, as manufacturing and maritime uses of the waterfront have declined. 
 The advisory board's biggest challenge, Mr. Doctoroff has said, is ''how are we going to generate the land in a city where land is our scarcest resource to provide for the facilities that will support growth.'' 
 ''It could be a zoning change, an investment in a form of transportation, it could be park space, working with Con Ed and KeySpan on energy needs,'' he continued. ''Power plants take acres and acres of land, but if we're going to grow we've got to provide that.'' 
 One possible source is the inventory of 1,700 contaminated acres in the city, many of which, consultants to the advisory board believe, can be reclaimed through improved technology. The technology has to be efficient enough, however, to make whatever is built there affordable. 
 If the brownfields were sufficiently decontaminated, those sites alone could accommodate 2,600 schools. 
 ''We can't afford to write off the land,'' one advisor to the board said. 
 According to a Department of City Planning survey of land use, one- and two-family homes consume more space than any other category -- more than 27 percent -- followed by 25 percent devoted to open space and recreation, 12 percent to multifamily housing, 4 percent each to commercial and industrial uses, and a little more than 1 percent to parking. About 7 percent of the land surveyed was identified as vacant. 
 Separately, transportation officials say streets and highways take up about 32,000 acres, which would rank them third in an overall inventory of land use. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BROWNFIELD SITES (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); AIR QUALITY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (52%) Land Use Policies; Population; Area Planning and Renewal; Environment

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Sam Roberts; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



592 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-26-06; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Long After We Withdraw

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
As the situation in Iraq continues to deteriorate and as policy makers debate how to extricate the United States honorably from what increasingly appears a war without end, it is worth remembering that all wars do end eventually, and that postwar relationships between the bitterest of enemies can turn out surprisingly well. President Bush's recent trip to Vietnam, where he attended the annual meeting of APEC -- the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation organization -- illustrates this reality and even offers a measure of hope at a time when battlefront reports are almost unrelievedly bad and when America's foreign policy seems to lurch from crisis to crisis.
It often seems as if the U.S. presence in Iraq has created so many new enemies in the Muslim world that the clash of civilizations described by Prof. Samuel Huntington has gone from being the hypothesis of a Harvard political scientist to a historical inevitability. Even many of those who resist the notion that Islam and the West are on a collision course still worry that the harm that has been done in Iraq to relations between the U.S. and the Islamic world will be almost impossible to undo. 
 And yet the example of Vietnam suggests otherwise. If anything, the trauma of the Vietnam War on the American psyche was and for some still is far deeper than anything the Iraq war has yet produced. These days we speak -- probably too glibly -- of an America almost evenly divided between so-called red and blue states. But for anyone who remembers what this country was like during the Vietnam era and in its immediate aftermath, these contemporary divisions seem rather shallow. Vietnam truly split the country and brought millions of people into the streets against their own government. People died protesting the Vietnam War on campuses like Kent State. On the battlefield, there was also tremendous savagery. Think of the C.I.A.-run Phoenix program of targeted assassination or the systematic torture of American prisoners of war by the North Vietnamese.
 Nevertheless, 30 years after the end of a war that left Vietnam in ruins and America in turmoil and confusion, the issues left over -- accounting for the missing in action, reuniting families and even paying compensation for Agent Orange-induced maladies -- are far less central to U.S.-Vietnamese relations than issues of trade and investment. America is now Vietnam's leading trading partner, and Intel has just announced the expansion of its factory near Ho Chi Minh City. While Congress dealt a temporary setback to President Bush's efforts to promote trade with Vietnam, few doubt that such efforts will succeed. As Stephen Hadley, the national security adviser, has put it, Vietnam is ''reforming'' and ''booming.'' (Of course, he might have added that it is hardly a paragon of human rights.)
 Remarkably, President Bush's cordial reception to Prime Minister Phan Van Khai in 2005 was accepted with little protest except from small groups of Vietnamese-Americans. On the Vietnamese side, the dour commissars who fought the French and then the Americans, at the cost of more than a million of their own dead -- ''born in the North, die in the South'' was a well-known saying in the North Vietnamese Army at the time -- have given way to proud capitalists who, despite their Communist affiliations, are far more interested in deepening trade relations with America and in warding off their historic rival China than in pulling the scabs off old wounds.
 Is there a lesson here for Iraq? The answer is that, in fact, there are many. The first, and perhaps the most important, is that history is not predictable and even the most deep-seated enmities can evaporate over time when the conditions are right. As President Bush himself said when he was in Hanoi last week: ''History has a long march to it. Societies change, and relationships can constantly be altered to the good.'' There is no iron law of history that says that the bad relations between America and the Islamic world, and even between the United States and radical Shiite groups like the one led by the militant cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, are fated to continue this way indefinitely and immutably. Nor is there any reason to believe that an American withdrawal from Iraq will harm these relations any more than the U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam permanently damaged U.S.-Vietnamese relations. 
 After the searing experience of Iraq, few among us believe that outsiders can impose democracy at the point of a gun. Nations and peoples simply have to find their own way. Of course, it is crucial not to romanticize this process. For the Vietnamese, the first decade after the fall of Saigon in 1975 was an appalling one -- an era of mass repression and mass hunger. It is entirely possible, likely even, that in Iraq the situation will get considerably worse after a U.S. withdrawal, as it did in Vietnam. To put it starkly, however, the effort to foster democracy in Iraq has failed, and with that failure, short-term suffering may have to be the price of long-term coexistence. Is this perspective harsh to the point of cruelty? Perhaps. But it may be a necessary and sober one as well. 
 No one in his right mind should imagine a rosy future for Iraq -- regardless of whether American commanders choose to preserve the status quo, start withdrawing or even add more troops to try a ''final push'' this spring. But again, all wars do end eventually. And in their aftermath, in the peace that follows, possibilities arise that seem almost unimaginable as people lie bleeding. It is conceivable that 30 years from now, one of President Bush's successors will travel to Baghdad not for crisis meetings in the Green Zone or to serve Thanksgiving turkey to the troops but to talk about peacetime matters like trade, tourism and the environment. Yet given America's inability to guarantee the security of ordinary Iraqis after an occupation that has lasted almost as long as our participation in World War II, it is possible to speculate that the sooner American forces leave Iraq, the sooner such a trip is likely to happen.

 U.S. trade with Vietnam, 2000-2005. All figures are in billions of U.S. dollars
 Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Foreign Trade Division, Data Dissemination Branch
 (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Darko Bandic
 Associated Press)Chart: ''MADE IN HO CHI MINH CITY''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RELIGION (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); TORTURE (61%) Vietnam War; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David Rieff

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (96%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (92%) Iraq; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



593 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Rich Man, Poor Man Nov. 19-25

 BODY:

SOARING GOOGLE STOCK

The News -- Google's share price passed $500 for the first time, pushing the market capitalization of the technology company, best known for its Internet search engine, to about $156 billion, roughly four times the size of its closest competitor, Yahoo. 


Behind the News -- Founded eight years ago in a Silicon Valley garage by two Stanford University graduate students, Google went public two years ago at $85 a share. The company now ranks as one of America's 15 largest companies, joining the likes of Exxon Mobil and Wal-Mart. Its founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, both 33, are each worth roughly $17 billion. And Google keeps expanding. It recently bought YouTube, the video-sharing site, for $1.65 billion in stock, and is investing billions in research, computers and a global communications network. Some analysts expect the stock price to reach $600 next year. Yahoo.

A RECORD BUYOUT

The News -- In the biggest leveraged buyout in history, the Blackstone Group, a private investment firm, agreed to acquire Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest office-building owner and manager, for about $36 billion.

Behind the News -- The deal eclipses the $33 billion paid earlier this year for H.C.A., the hospital chain, and will make Blackstone one of the nation's largest owners of real estate. The trust, with interests in 580 buildings and 108.6 million square feet of office space, will go from being a publicly held company to a private one. Samuel Zell, the real estate tycoon who founded Equity Office, told The Associated Press that Blackstone's offer was unsolicited. ''We got what we considered to be a significant offer at a price that we considered to be very attractive, and responded accordingly,'' he said. His stake could bring him $800 million.

BONANZA ON WALL STREET

The News -- The average weekly pay for financial sector jobs in Manhattan was $8,323 in the first quarter of 2006, up more than $3,000 per week in just three years, according to data collected by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Behind the News -- New York's dependence on Wall Street continues to grow. The 280,000 workers in the financial sector collect more than half of all the wages paid in Manhattan, but hold less than one in six of the 1.8 million jobs in the borough, according to the data. The good news on Wall Street may not be so good for others who live in New York. Michael L. Dolfman, the bureau's regional commissioner, said one consequence of the unequal distribution of income gains is that ''the middle class is being squeezed out of the city because of the tremendous purchasing power of the people in the global sectors of the economy.''

AN EYE ON THE WEALTHY

The News -- The Internal Revenue Service reported a sharp increase in the number of tax audits for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 and warned high earners that they will continue to face scrutiny in the coming year.

Behind the News -- One of every 16 taxpayers who earned $1 million or more faced audits last year, a 33 percent increase over the previous year. The agency also audited 257,000 taxpayers with incomes over $100,000, an increase of 18 percent and the most in more than a decade. Over all, nearly 1.3 million individual returns were audited. . The I.R.S. commissioner, Mark W. Everson, said the agency would continue to investigate high-income taxpayers to maintain ''faith'' in the system. ''If you earn more than $100,000 or you're a millionaire,'' he said, ''you're a lot more likely to be audited these days than just a few years ago.''

A VICTORY FOR JANITORS

The News -- Ending a monthlong strike, the union representing 5,300 janitors in Houston and the city's major cleaning firms reached a tentative contract that raises their wages by nearly 50 percent over two years and provides them health coverage.

Behind the News -- The organizing of the janitors last year by the Service Employees International Union was hailed by the labor movement as a major victory. The contract would gradually raise wages, which now average $5.25 an hour, to $7.75 by Jan. 1, 2009. The employers agreed to increase a janitor's typical shift to six hours a day, from four, and to provide health coverage. For a 30-hour week, a janitor would earn $232.50 in the final year, about $12,000 a year. ''It's a moment of great victory,'' said Mercedes Herrera, a janitor for five years who earns $5.15 an hour. ''I've earned the same ever since I started, so the raise is great.''

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Julia Hoffmann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); RANKINGS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); STATISTICS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (56%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (56%); HOSPITALS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (70%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); BX (NYSE) (70%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (70%); SERGEY BRIN (58%); LARRY PAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



594 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Now It's Iraq on the Agenda For the Mr. Fix-It of the G.O.P. 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Everyone in Washington knows that President Bush has a lot riding on the Iraq Study Group, the bipartisan panel searching for a fresh strategy in Iraq. But so has the man whose name has become synonymous with the group: its Republican co-chairman, James A. Baker III.
 The last time he dominated the news was in 2000, in Florida, when Mr. Baker -- a former secretary of state who has been a friend and a tennis partner of the first President Bush since the current president was 13 years old -- led the legal team that delivered the White House to its current occupant. That was Mr. Baker in partisan mode, cementing his reputation as Bush family confidant and Republican fix-it man.
Now, at 76, Mr. Baker is in high diplomat mode, on a mission, friends and supporters say, to aid his country and his president -- and, while he is at it, seal his legacy in the realm of statesmen, a sphere he cares about far more than politics. 
 ''I think he'd like to be remembered as a 21st-century Disraeli,'' said Leon Panetta, a Democratic member of the group, referring to the 19th-century British statesman and prime minister. ''I think deep down he is someone who believes that his diplomatic career, in many ways, helped change the world.''
 On Monday, the 10 members of the Iraq Study Group -- five Republicans and five Democrats -- will convene in Washington for two days of deliberations, to try to produce a report by mid-December. The panel, formed at the urging of a bipartisan group in Congress, has a broad mandate to conduct an analysis of the situation in Iraq, including military, economic and political issues.
 The group has conducted hundreds of interviews, but some question whether even the most thorough report can have any effect on the ground in Iraq, where sectarian violence is escalating.
 The panel remains deeply divided over several critical issues, most notably whether to accede to calls by Democrats for a phased withdrawal of troops. Mr. Baker, who would not be interviewed for this article, has said he wants bipartisan consensus, but the panel's Democratic co-chairman, Lee H. Hamilton, acknowledges it will be difficult.
 ''It's not a guaranteed result,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''There is a lot of focus on our work, and a lot of attention to it, and high expectation from it. I think Jim and I both feel that pressure.''
 Mr. Baker is no stranger to world affairs; he presided over the end of the cold war, the 1991 invasion of Iraq (arguing famously against ousting Saddam Hussein) and was an aggressive dealmaker in the Middle East. He has always been ''the quintessential pragmatist,'' in Mr. Panetta's words, a master at intertwining politics with diplomacy, at consulting everyone in the beginning so no one feels left out in the end.
 That has been his modus operandi at the commission, where he has functioned almost as a shadow secretary of state, using his vast personal Rolodex to reach out to international figures the Bush administration has shunned -- while testing the political waters at home.
 He has made ample use of his Bush connections, dropping in on the president for private Oval Office tete-a-tetes. He led the study group on a mission to Baghdad, where they donned helmets and flak jackets to meet leaders of every political stripe. (''A lot of them knew him,'' Mr. Panetta said.) 
 He has included Mr. Hamilton on every decision, going so far as to reject a photo shoot at Newsweek unless it included Mr. Hamilton, colleagues said. He insisted the report be released after the November election. He has let information slip out when it has suited him -- like news of his quiet rendezvous with officials from Syria and Iran, rogue nations in the White House's view -- but has demanded absolute secrecy about the substance of the panel's work.
 ''We've all been issued cyanide pills,'' said Edward P. Djerejian, who is helping Mr. Baker write the draft and is director of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University, a university Mr. Baker's grandfather helped found.
 As a two-time former cabinet secretary (at Treasury under President Ronald Reagan and the State Department under the first President Bush) and a two-time former White House chief of staff (Reagan and the first President Bush), Mr. Baker has been around Washington long enough to know how to play the expectations game. Right now, he is playing it to the hilt, putting out the word that Iraq 2006 is hardly Florida 2000.
 ''The expectations have gotten well beyond where he wanted them to get,'' said one person close to Mr. Baker, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''You're talking about a political equation as much as you are a strategic and diplomatic one. And one of the things that's making the situation difficult is this image that Baker's coming in, Baker's riding to the rescue. There are some very smart and very strong Democrats on this panel, and they're not going to do what Baker tells them to do.''
 Nor will President Bush; his press secretary, Tony Snow, insisted that the White House would not ''outsource this problem to the Baker commission.'' The White House is already pushing back against the report, even before it is issued. The Pentagon is doing its own review of Iraq policy, and the White House has commissioned another. President Bush, meanwhile, is traveling to Jordan this week to meet Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki of Iraq, where he is expected to reassure the prime minister that the United States is not pulling out anytime soon.
 Mr. Baker's relationship with the president is one of the great curiosities of Washington, and many here are trying to divine how he will use that tie to advance the Iraq Study Group. The two are not nearly as close as Mr. Baker is with Mr. Bush's father; Mr. Baker's recent autobiography, ''Work Hard, Study and Keep Out of Politics,'' suggests tension just under the surface.
 Mr. Baker writes that he did not mind being left out of the current administration: ''We had our turn. Now it was his.'' Though people in Washington see a certain irony in his return to manage a new Iraq war gone wrong, he insists he is not ''implicitly criticizing'' Mr. Bush for the invasion. Yet Mr. Baker takes pains to point out, in a one-sentence footnote, that Mr. Bush is ''an alumnus'' of the ''office boy pool'' at Baker Botts, Mr. Baker's law firm in Houston. In one scene from the elder Mr. Bush's 1988 presidential campaign, he refers to ''the ever-playful presidential son, George W.''
 These days Mr. Baker refers to that son as ''Mr. President.'' The president calls Mr. Baker, 16 years his senior, ''Jimmy.'' Aides to both insist Mr. Baker has not used his private Oval Office meetings to tip the president off to the commission's work. But then, Mr. Baker would never be that unsubtle. 
 ''He's treating the president just like he is everyone else, as somebody to be co-opted, and brought into the process,'' said one outside adviser to the study group, who was granted anonymity to talk about the process.
 Some Democrats consider that a good thing. ''Baker has the great good possibility of success because he's so close to the president,'' said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat and incoming chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. ''He's able to give the president a way out, a way of saying, 'I didn't do what the Democrats said. I listened to Baker, my old buddy, Jim Baker.' ''
 By all accounts, Mr. Baker relishes his encore as elder statesmen. 
 ''Look, he wascertainly a very effective politician, a wise political strategist,'' said Donald L. Evans, a close friend of Mr. Baker's who served as commerce secretary in President Bush's first term. ''But that was a means to an end. He's playing, I think, the role that he should be playing at this moment in life -- the distinguished statesman that is there for leaders to go to, and listen to.''
 The study group, formed in March, operated below radar for months. But the assignment just happened to overlap with Mr. Baker's October book tour. Mr. Baker left no media outlet unturned, even appearing on ''The Daily Show with Jon Stewart.'' (''Don't think for one minute they don't sell books,'' he later told The Houston Chronicle.)
 Mr. Baker used the appearances artfully, promoting the book and setting the stage for public acceptance of the Iraq Study Group. He made clear his differences with the White House, telling the ABC news program ''This Week'' that ''it's not appeasement to talk to your enemies'' and that his panel would search for a middle ground between '' 'stay the course' and 'cut and run.' ''
 The political landscape, though, has changed dramatically since then. If Mr. Baker can guide his group toward recommendations that are accepted by the White House and Democrats, and that yield real improvement in Iraq, he will be more than a Republican fix-it man. Mr. Evans, the former commerce secretary, said he would be remembered as ''America's fix-it man.''
 But foreign policy experts and politicians alike say there is no miracle elixir for Iraq; if there were, someone would have thought of it already. Ivo Daalder, a scholar at the Brookings Institution, says the real test for Mr. Baker is to pull the White House ''out of the quicksand'' in a way that has lasting political effects at home and strategic effects in Iraq. 
 ''This is an impossible job,'' said Mr. Daalder, adding wryly: ''Even God couldn't meet those expectations. Perhaps Jim Baker can.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Baker III is a leader of the Iraq Study Group, the panel searching for a new strategy in Iraq. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); COLD WAR (72%); TRENDS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (62%); TERRORISM (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); LEON E PANETTA (54%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; James A III Baker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



595 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: New Rules; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Here Come the Economic Populists

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
FOR years, the Clinton wing of the Democratic Party, exercising a lock on the party's economic policies, argued that the economy could achieve sustained growth only if markets were allowed to operate unfettered and globally. 
 Overcoming protests from labor unions, a traditional constituency, the Clinton administration vigorously supported free trade agreements like Nafta and agreed to China's admission into the World Trade Organization. If there was damage to workers, then the Clinton camp proposed dealing with it after it occurred -- through wage insurance, for example, or worker retraining and other safety-net measures.
This approach coincided with a period of economic prosperity, low unemployment and falling deficits. Over time, this combination -- called Rubinomics after the Clinton administration's Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin -- became the Democratic establishment's accepted model for the future. 
 Not anymore. With the Democrats now a majority in Congress, and disquiet over globalization growing, a party faction that has been powerless -- the economic populists -- is emerging and strongly promoting an alternative to Rubinomics. 
 The populists argue that the national income has flowed disproportionately into corporate coffers and the nation's wealthiest households, and that the imbalance has grown worse in recent years. They want to rethink America's role in the global economy. They would intervene in markets and regulate them much more than the Rubinites would. For a start, they would declare a moratorium on new trade agreements until clauses were included that would, for example, restrict layoffs and protect incomes.
 ''We are at a point where the Reagan era might finally be over, including the eight years of Bill Clinton,'' said Jeff Faux, a fellow at the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group partly financed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''The historic juncture here is whether the Democrats can come up with policies that get to the level of the problem.'' 
 The split is not over the damage from globalization. Mr. Rubin and his followers increasingly say that globalization has not brought job security or rising incomes to millions of Americans. The ''share of the pie may even be shrinking'' for vast segments of the middle class, Mr. Rubin's successor as Treasury secretary under President Clinton, Lawrence H. Summers, recently wrote in an op-ed in The Financial Times. And the populists certainly agree. 
 But the Rubin camp argues that regulating trade, or imposing other market restrictions, would be self-defeating.
 ''You pay a steep economic cost when you adopt market interventions,'' said Peter R. Orszag, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a leader of the Rubin group. He argued, for example, that restrictions on layoffs ''would impede the ability of markets to reallocate labor efficiently.'' 
 As a result, the Rubinites contend, there would be slower economic growth and less national income to distribute -- equally or unequally. It was an argument that President Clinton embraced 15 years ago in pushing Congress to approve the North American Free Trade Agreement. For workers who were damaged by free trade, the administration offered a safety net, not immunity from damage.
 The economic populists argue that the trade agreements themselves are the problem. They cite several studies showing that more jobs shifted to Mexico as a result of Nafta than were created in the United States to serve the Mexican market. 
 ''I don't see Congress passing any bilateral trade agreement that does not have strong labor and environmental standards written into it,'' Representative Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Democrat just elected to the Senate, said in an interview last week. 
 Economic populists in and out of Congress are organizing to push their proposals, coalescing around the Economic Policy Institute. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is a very visible member of this coalition. Unions have gained political influence because of their get-out-the vote role in battleground states like Ohio, where Democrats made substantial gains in the midterm election.
 ''We feel we have a stronger voice now in the deliberations of the Democratic Party,'' said Ronald Blackwell, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s chief economist. 
 Just as the populists have organized, tentatively calling their group Shared Prosperity, so has the Democratic establishment. Its counterpart is ''the Hamilton Project,'' formed last spring to elaborate policies in anticipation of a Democratic Congress and, in 2008, a Democratic victor in the presidential election. Mr. Orszag, who was a senior economist in the Clinton administration, directs the project. The financing comes from wealthy Democrats, among them Mr. Rubin. 
 As the two groups face off, Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute, contends that the populists are pushing much harder than the Rubinites for government-subsidized universal health care. They also favor expanding Social Security to offset the decline in pension coverage in the private sector.
 Apart from such differences, there are nevertheless crucial issues on which the groups agree. Both would sponsor legislation that reduced college tuition, mainly through tax credits or lower interest rates on student loans. Both would expand the earned-income tax credit to subsidize the working poor. Both would have the government negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare's prescription drug plan. And despite their relentless criticisms of President Bush's tax cuts, neither the populists nor the Rubinite regulars would try to roll them back now, risking a veto that the Democrats lack the votes to override. 
 ''Any solution that you put up is going to get knocked down before you put it up,'' Mr. Rubin said in an interview last week, referring mainly to taxes. 
 Noting the Democrats' slim majority in Congress, he added, ''I think you need a process that involves the president of the United States, the leaders of both parties and the leaders of both houses.'' 
 The threat of a Bush veto affects another piece of the Democratic agenda -- an increase in the minimum wage. Both Democratic factions support a bill, to be introduced in January, that would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour from the current $5.15. The increase would come in three steps, spread over more than two years, with the final $7.25 not reached until spring 2009 at the earliest.
 That is the same $7.25 that would be effective today if Congress had given its approval when Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts first proposed the increase in 2004. Yet Mr. Kennedy is the chief sponsor of the new attempt to raise the minimum, his strategy being that the $7.25, stretched out to 2009, is mild enough to be acceptable to Mr. Bush and many Republicans.
 ''After we successfully pass this increase,'' Mr. Kennedy said last week, ''I plan to introduce a new proposal right away that will ensure that minimum-wage workers never again fall so far behind in our economy.''
 The minimum wage debate illustrates that in the end, economic policy might be determined less by partisan goals than by the constraints of pragmatic politics.
 Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, a Democrat whose New York district includes Kingston and other economically struggling cities, asserts that the federal minimum should be $10 an hour now. Going that high right away is unrealistic, he acknowledged, but in the Congressional debate over the Kennedy proposal, Mr. Hinchey will push to have the $7.25 effective no later than the spring 2008, not 2009. 
 ''If I went out on the street in Kingston,'' Mr. Hinchey said, ''and said to people that the minimum wage is not going up to $7.25 until 2009, they would say to me, 'That is all the Democrats are going to do? Why did I vote for you?' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Challenged -- Robert E. Rubin's free-market economics once ruled Democratic policy. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News)(pg. 4)Drawing (Drawing by Robert Grossman)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006



596 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Using Drugs to Alter Kids' Behavior

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Proof Is Scant on Psychiatric Drug Mix for Young'' (front page, Nov. 23):
As a practicing psychiatrist who has been on a medical school faculty for 28 years, I recognize the great benefit psychotropic medicines have provided for the psychiatrically ill. But I am alarmed at the trend of using multiple medications in the treatment of childhood disorders.
 Medicines treat illnesses. It is misleading to think that medications can change behavior, but child psychiatrists are trying to do so nonetheless. Even more irrational is the trend of defining behaviors as illnesses to justify the use of medicines. 
 Child psychiatrists are moving toward a system that labels any child who has tantrums as ''bipolar'' and drugging that child into submission. In some instances, two drugs are used even though their actions are opposites. 
 Sir William Osler, the father of modern medicine, said that when there are many treatments for a single condition, it is because none of them work.

Gerald A. Shiener, M.D.
Birmingham, Mich., Nov. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 In all the articles that I see on psychiatric drug use in the young, the larger questions are never asked, or even acknowledged: Why are so many kids so depressed? Why are so many kids so hyper? Why can't kids sleep? 
 Have we decided that the question of what causes these conditions is so hopeless we shouldn't even ask it?

Scott Telek
New York, Nov. 23, 2006

To the Editor:
 Your article rightly points out the complex issues behind the use of multiple psychiatric medications in children, especially the absence of any scientific proof as to their effectiveness and safety.
 These children are quite unhappy. Their parents, teachers and doctors are desperate to help them. The bottom line, though, is that the children's behavior is out of control.
 Any sociologist or anthropologist looking at America's child-rearing practices today will tell you that children's compliance either will be learned by interacting with parents, teachers and peers or will be achieved chemically -- no matter how many drugs or side effects it takes.

Lawrence Diller, M.D.
Walnut Creek, Calif., Nov. 24, 2006

The writer practices behavioral-developmental pediatrics.

To the Editor:
 Anecdotal evidence about the high percentage of children treated with Ritalin and other prescription drugs suggests that we may be overmedicating.
 But by affirming the backlash against the trend, you do a great disservice to those children -- and adults -- who do benefit from these drugs.
 We have witnessed the joy with which these ''miracle drugs'' were received, and are now witnessing the backlash against their use.
 I hope we will find a position of equilibrium before the progress we have made in sensitizing the public to mental-health problems has been erased.

Jessamyn Blau
New York, Nov. 23, 2006

To the Editor:
 The problems of overmedication and undermedication are common in the contemporary treatment of psychiatric disorders. Some patients and families resist taking medication at all; others are too willing to take any and all medications prescribed.
 The economics of mental health care does not support the thoughtful and unhurried assessment of the individual patient's symptoms and problems by the most qualified and highly trained specialists.
 There is evidence-based data available to guide clinical decision-making. Practitioners should resist external pressures from patients, families and schools to overprescribe and to promise more than can be delivered.

Michael Schwartz, M.D.
Stony Brook, N.Y., Nov. 23, 2006

The writer is an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Stony Brook University School of Medicine.

To the Editor:
 My goodness, have these parents not tried alternative approaches to changing the behavior of their children? Do they not see that Americans as a whole are overmedicated? Have they not considered other alternatives to psychotropic medications, such as family therapy or diet or exercise?
 Why do parents continue to look outside of their family system to ''fix'' their children? The answer is not in pills. I applaud Andrew and Leslie Darr, who your article says weaned their children off their medications after Mrs. Darr herself felt what it was like to be medicated.
 If more parents of these ''sick'' children could experience what it is that these children are going through, perhaps the pharmaceutical companies and the psychiatrists would find themselves with less profits in their pockets but there would be better-functioning families.

Donna Klein
Morristown, N.J., Nov. 24, 2006

The writer is a social worker.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ted McGrath)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); PARENTING (75%); WRITERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Mental Health and Disorders; Children and Youth; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mental Health and Disorders; Mental Health and Disorders

PERSON: Gerald A (Dr) Shiener; Lawrence (Dr) Diller; Jessamyn Blau; Michael (Dr) Schwartz; Donna Klein; Scott Telek

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); MICHIGAN, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



597 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words

 BODY:

TITAN VS. TITAN -- The latest installment in the long-running story of whether Richard A. Grasso, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, will be allowed to keep his copious compensation is scheduled Wednesday, when arguments will be heard about two of Mr. Grasso's appeals. One appeal seeks the removal of the presiding judge, Justice Charles E. Ramos of New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who has ruled that Mr. Grasso return up to $100 million of his pay package. The other seeks to overturn the judge's ruling that he decide without a jury whether Mr. Grasso's pay was reasonable. Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general and governor-elect, sued Mr. Grasso in 2004. 


HOME RANGE -- This week will bring snapshots of housing and the overall economy. The National Association of Realtors will release its report on existing-home sales for the month of October (Tuesday), followed by the Commerce Department's report on new-home sales for October (Wednesday). Both figures are expected to drop. The Federal Reserve will release its beige book, which summarizes current economic conditions (Wednesday). And automakers will report vehicle sales for November (Friday).

HO-HO OR HO-HUM? -- Leading retailers will release final sales reports for November on Thursday, and Wall Street will be watching to see how consumers are behaving, especially in light of the slowdown in the housing market. Wal-Mart sounded a cautionary note last week when it estimated that same-store sales fell 0.1 in November, more than expected. The weeks before Christmas typically account for 20 to 40 percent of retailers' annual sales.

A SOUPcON OF EARNINGS-- It will be a thin week for earnings reports, though heavy on Canadian banks: Bank of Montreal (Tuesday); Tiffany & Company and TiVo (Wednesday); H& R Block, H. J. Heinz, National Bank of Canada and Royal Bank of Canada (Thursday); and Warner Music Group (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); RETAILERS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPEALS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); GOVERNORS (56%); AUTOMAKERS (51%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (81%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (81%); TIFFANY & CO (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); H & R BLOCK INC (52%); H J HEINZ CO (52%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (52%); NATIONAL BANK OF CANADA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (81%); BMO (NYSE) (81%); RY (TSX) (81%); RY (SWX) (81%); RY (NYSE) (81%); TIF (NYSE) (64%); HRB (NYSE) (52%); HNZ (NYSE) (52%); NA (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (64%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (64%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (64%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (52%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (52%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (52%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



598 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: No Clues Yet as Health Industry Awaits a Report on Downsizing

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
An economic shock wave, years in the making, is expected to hit New York this week. It could alter or eliminate tens of thousands of jobs, and change the way millions of people receive health care.
 Yet the moment will catch most New Yorkers by surprise, and even those who know of it and care deeply have little real idea what to expect.
On Tuesday, a commission created by state lawmakers will release a plan for downsizing the hospital and nursing home industries across the state. Under the law that created the panel, the recommendations will become law unless the governor or the Legislature acts in December to reject the entire plan -- it cannot approve some pieces and not others.
 But beyond the general notion that it will direct the closing of some hospitals that are underused and losing money, the commission has given few hints as to what it will do. 
 Will it order 4 hospitals closed or 40? Will it merge some competing hospitals or force them to drop certain services instead of simply putting them out of business? Will it convert hospitals to outpatient clinics rather than just shutting them down? What will become of the closed hospitals' employees and the debts of those hospitals? And what will happen to nursing homes that are bleeding cash even though they are nearly full?
 ''I can make an educated guess based on what I think makes sense, like anybody else can, but that's all I can do is guess,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, who often knows what state government is going to do to his industry before most members of the Legislature do. ''They've played it extremely close to the vest.''
 The only certainty is that whatever the commission does will meet fierce opposition.
 Closing a hospital is a painful and politically fraught thing to attempt anywhere, but more so in New York, with its powerful health care workers union, 1199 S.E.I.U.United Healthcare Workers East, and its unusually high concentration of hospitals and medical schools. New York State spends more per person than any other state on health care, treating it as a source of jobs and economic development as much as medical attention. Over the last decade, New York State's more than 200 hospitals have been more fragile financially than those in any other state. About two dozen have closed, and most of those that remain have lost money and gone deeply into debt.
 Officials hope that downsizing will shore up the surviving hospitals by leaving them with more patients and putting them in a stronger position to bargain with health insurance companies. They predict that economically sound hospitals will invest more in computer systems -- an area where New York lags behind much of the country -- and other innovations that will make them more efficient.
 Such changes would matter almost as much to state and local governments, which spend billions of dollars on Medicaid payments and hospital subsidies, as to the hospitals themselves.
 In considering those high stakes, the state's panel, the Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century, has heard a great deal, holding meetings and public hearings around the state for more than a year. But it has said little about its plans, and so its work has generated sparse coverage by the news media.
 ''We've been struggling with this all year,'' said Kate Breslin, director of policy at the Community Health Care Association of New York, an alliance of large clinics. ''How do you light the issue on fire and get people involved when you really don't know what's going to happen?''
 A year ago, the commission's chairman, Stephen Berger, said that by January, it would publicly label each hospital as being at high risk, moderate risk, or low risk of being reduced in size or closed. Reporters and lobbyists eagerly awaited the result, anticipating an early road map to hospital closures.
 But hospitals and their industry groups complained bitterly that simply calling a fragile hospital high-risk could put it out of business -- vendors would demand cash rather than extending credit, and doctors, patients and health insurers would steer their business elsewhere. The commission quietly shelved the plan, a decision that set a pattern for the work that followed.
 Six committees, each for a different region of the state, were created to advise the commission, and the commission decided not to make that advice public until the final report was published. Even top health policy makers in the Legislature and the Pataki administration have said they do not know what to expect from the commission.
 That has created great anxiety among people who want to influence the group's work. Public officials and interest groups have held news conferences and vigils to protest the commission's recommendations, without knowing precisely what it was they were protesting.
 Members of the City Council recently held a news conference to make their own recommendations, saying that they hoped to send a message to the Berger commission. But Councilwoman Helen Sears of Queens, who headed the task force that produced the Council's report, conceded that for all they knew, ''our ideas are things that the commission has already taken to heart or decided against.''
 A particularly contentious area has been how to create more options for primary care -- everything from individual doctors' offices to big, multiservice clinics. Many New Yorkers use hospitals for primary care, an expensive practice that policymakers have long wanted to end, but some poor neighborhoods lack alternatives. As the commission itself has acknowledged, closing hospitals will only add to the shortage of primary care.
 Some advocates have pressed the commission to direct primary care development, or raise payments to family doctors, though just how it would do that is not clear. Commission officials say most of those suggestions go beyond the powers given them by state law.
 But the commission could have a profound effect on primary care in some neighborhoods if it directs smaller hospitals to become big clinics with primary care doctors and some other services. It is not clear how much power the commission has to give such orders, or how inclined it is to use that power. The state would probably pay for such conversions, but the commission has no ability to tell the state how to spend its money. 
 New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn said recently that the commission should have been more open about its deliberations, and that ''more transparency would have been a good thing.''
 David Sandman, the commission's executive director, said he was sympathetic, but he disagreed. Last week, a published report speculated as to which hospitals might be closed, prompting panicked responses from their executives and employees. 
 Mr. Sandman said, ''I think that was the best proof that not tipping our hand was the right way to go.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NURSING HOMES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INSURANCE (50%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Nursing Homes; Organized Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Law and Legislation ; Governors (US); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: United Healthcare Workers East; Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century (NYS)

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



599 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Regaining Independence After Polio and Cancer

BYLINE: By ERICKA V. MITCHELL

 BODY:
Walda Lyons's life has been marked by hardship, but it is not obvious from her demeanor. She survived polio as a child and cancer as an adult and at 62 is determined to resume working for a living. 
 Dressed in a neat two-piece outfit, as if she were preparing for a job interview, she presented a certain professional air. But after decades in white-collar jobs, Ms. Lyons has been unemployed since she was laid off in April 2002 by her employer, which then went out of business.
On a recent morning, she visited the offices of a state agency that helps people who are disabled get back into the work force. She was told that she had been jobless long enough that she needed to be evaluated for three weeks to determine whether she was competent for employment.
 ''They are supposed to help people who are disabled,'' Ms. Lyons said. ''The reality of it is, is it help or hindrance? I want to work, and I'll fight for what I have to get, but I don't want to fight with people and say, 'Do your job and help me.' '' 
 Ms. Lyons showed a similar resolve as a child, when she was paralyzed for about a year with polio, which was diagnosed when she was 7. She was determined that she would never let her condition get the best of her. 
 With her right leg atrophied because of the polio, Ms. Lyons underwent two operations during her adolescence. She walks with the help of a cane but wears two different shoe sizes: a 5 on her right foot and an 8 1/2 on her left. With help from the National Odd Shoe Exchange, a nonprofit organization that provides footwear for those requiring single shoes or pairs of differing sizes, that was one problem she no longer had to worry about.
 Growing up in Fall River, Mass., physical therapy as we know it today did not exist. So Ms. Lyons got creative to strengthen her legs and improve her balance: she roller-skated as therapy. 
 ''I had a cast all the way up to my hip, and they took the cast off and said you have to be able to walk to go home. That was my physical therapy.'' 
 When she first moved to New York in 1967, after college, she worked as a tax and title analyst for Equitable Life Insurance. She later worked for 13 years as an investigator with the U.S. Department of Labor's Civil and Criminal Division and then worked for a company that did legal research and background checks. 
 By the mid-1990s her legs began to worsen because of post-polio syndrome, but it was not until 2002, when she broke her right ankle in a fall on the way home from work, that she began to have catastrophic health problems. 
 In 2003, about the time she had recovered from her broken ankle, she developed stress fractures in her left leg, maybe from overreliance on it. She could not place her left foot flat onto the floor, much less stand on it. 
 ''This was like my super leg, and now I could not put it on the floor,'' she said. ''I could not use crutches because I had no leg I could stand on.'' 
 With her condition showing no improvement, Ms. Lyons, already out of work, applied for Social Security. A month before she received her first check, in 2004, she learned she had ovarian cancer. At the same time, Ms. Lyons was facing eviction from her apartment in Long Island City, Queens, because her landlord wanted it for a relative. 
 ''I've had polio, been through cancer, but the prospect of becoming homeless and navigating the bureaucracy of social services to find shelter was the worst experience of all,'' she said.
 Using research skills she learned on the job, and with help from the Coalition for the Homeless, Ms. Lyons was able to find an apartment in Manhattan in a building with handicapped access. 
 Her financial condition remained difficult, though. During the heat wave this past summer Ms. Lyons was afraid to use her air-conditioner because she feared she would not be able to pay her electric bill. 
 That is when a community service program referred her to Karen Norden, a manager for homeless services, in a program of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York. The federation is one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 Through the Neediest Cases Fund, Ms. Lyons received $129.11 to pay for her Con Edison bill, and $300 to replace some bookshelves that were damaged by a moving company she had hired. 
 Ms. Lyons undergoes therapy for both legs but is no longer held back by polio. With her cancer in remission, Ms. Lyons is resolute about regaining her independence and finding part-time work.
 ''I've worked for 40 years, and I'm going to work again,'' she said.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,242,275.73
Recorded last Monday: $12,378.00
Total: $2,254,653.73
Last year to date: $2,430,232.30


GRAPHIC: Photo: Walda Lyons, 62, worked for many years but has been unemployed since 2002, when she was laid off by a company that later shut down. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICAL THERAPY (87%); PARALYSIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FOOTWEAR (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: Ericka V Mitchell; Walda Lyons

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



600 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Chilling Echo For Lebanon

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nada Bakri contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
In April 1975, gunmen fired on a church in East Beirut in what appeared to be an attempt to kill Pierre Gemayel, founder of the main right-wing Lebanese Christian militia. He was not killed, but the shooting set off a cycle of revenge that became a 15-year civil war. 
 Last week, three gunmen assassinated Mr. Gemayel's grandson and namesake, a government minister and symbol of Lebanon's besieged Christian, pro-Western community. Now an unnerving question is emerging here: as the battle between the Iranian-backed group Hezbollah and the Western-backed governing coalition reaches a crescendo, is it in fact the prelude to a civil war?
Lebanon's seeming slide toward civil conflict is not just a symbol of unfortunate historic symmetry. This country is a barometer for the region, serving as a measure of tensions and rivalries. 
 It is no coincidence that Lebanon is suffering its worst political crisis in decades at a time when Iraq has descended into sectarian war, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the past few months reached new heights and power seems to be shifting away from the Western-allied Sunni Muslim countries of Egypt and Saudi Arabia to the Shiite state of Iran. 
 ''Generally, the regional situation at the time was very much what it is today,'' said Kamal Salibi, a historian and author from Beirut, speaking of the start of the 1975-90 civil war.
 Then as now, a major Arab military humiliation prompted radicalism, hostility and questions of legitimacy for Arab governments from Morocco to Bahrain. Then it was the 1967 war in which Israel defeated four armies, and the spreading ideology was secular nationalism. Today, it is the American military presence in Iraq and the ideology is Islamism. In both cases, rising oil prices and terrorism serve as fuel and tool for the conflicts. 
 In May 2003, with Baghdad occupied by American forces, Colin L. Powell, then the secretary of state, visited Damascus and warned Syrian and Lebanese leaders that there was a ''new strategic situation'' in the Middle East. He said they had to end support for groups the West considered terrorist, including Hamas and Hezbollah.
 Today, events in Iraq, Lebanon and the Palestinian areas have demonstrated the diminished status of the United States and its allies. In Iraq, the powerful Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr has threatened to stop supporting the government if the prime minister meets with President Bush, as he is scheduled to do Wednesday in Jordan. In Gaza, mediation by Egypt has failed to stem the rising tide of violence or negotiate the release of an Israeli solider despite its intense efforts. In Lebanon, the American-backed government is hanging on by a thread as Hezbollah and its allies push for more power.
 ''The army will first protect us, but if we find ourselves obliged we will take to the streets, and a peaceful confrontation will be faced with a peaceful confrontation, and clashes will be faced with clashes,'' said Walid Eido, a judge and member of Lebanon's Parliament in the governing coalition, speaking of the challenge from Hezbollah. ''We will sell our blood to buy weapons and confront them. We will never let them control the country.'' 
 The Bush administration is worried about Lebanon as well as the other flashpoints, and it suddenly appears to be considering opening a dialogue with Iran and Syria to win help in stabilizing Iraq. In Gaza, Arab and Western diplomats said, Syria has used its relationship with Hamas to block Egypt's efforts to mediate talks on the return of the Israeli solider captured by Hamas. 
 These forces have come to bear on Lebanon, a weak state with weak institutions unable to shield itself from the volley of disruptions jolting the region. Lebanon is in crisis because of its unique brand of power sharing, divided largely along sectarian lines, but also arranged by geography and political needs of individual players. 
 Lebanon is also in crisis because of regional uncertainty, which has spawned an intense flurry of geopoliticking between adversaries looking for a leg up. While Saudi Arabia and Egypt struggle to maintain the status quo, Iran presses to rewrite it, defying the West with its nuclear program. 
 Egypt and Saudi Arabia have been trying to defuse the crisis in Lebanon. Saudi Arabia has tried to protect its financial holdings here and to safeguard Lebanon's Sunni population. Saudi officials in Lebanon have met with Hezbollah's general secretary, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, hoping to orchestrate a compromise, officials here said. Egypt's interest in Lebanon is aimed at preserving its national dignity and a role as a regional power broker.
 ''Part of this is purely made in Lebanon,'' said Mr. Salibi, the historian. ''But it draws in the anti-Syrian and the pro-Syrian dichotomy, the Sunni-Shia dichotomy, the pro-Iranian-pro-Western dichotomy. All of this is drawn into Lebanon.'' 
 The specific Lebanese crisis is about who will control the government -- and so hold the power to direct the country's interests toward the West, or Iran and Syria. Right now, the government is in the hands of what is called the March 14th coalition, a mix of Sunni, Druse and some Christian political parties aligned with the United States and France. Six pro-Syrian ministers recently resigned from the cabinet after talks aimed at building a so-called national unity government collapsed. 
 While the government was already on the verge of collapse, Mr. Gemayel was assassinated in broad daylight in an attack that left even hardened political leaders shaken. 
 Despite the rising tension, many political analysts say that Lebanon is a different place from what it was in 1975, less prone to violence. Political leaders also say they will do what they can to avoid a civil war -- but will fight if pressed to.
 There are at least two major regional differences between the 1970s and now. Syria is not the Syria of the past. There is no Soviet Union to support it, and the president, Bashar al-Assad, is viewed as far less effective than his father, Hafez. When Syria first broke with its Arab neighbors and made an alliance with Iran -- Syria was the only Arab country allied with Iran during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war -- Syria was a more senior partner. Iran is now the senior partner, spreading its economic and military influence throughout Syria. And it has replaced Syria as Hezbollah's main contact point in Lebanon. 
 ''Look at all this mess,'' said Timur Goksel, a former longtime spokesman for United Nations Forces in Lebanon. ''The only one who has overall influence in the region with their military, ideology, money and propensity to cause mischief, are the Iranians.'' 
 In Damascus, there is a certain pride that its leaders bet on the right player, Tehran, in the regional jockeying for power. But there is also some anxiety emerging in Damascus over Iran's spreading influence. One Arab diplomat said one of the reasons Syria renewed its diplomatic ties with Iraq after so many years was fear that if the United States were to withdraw, Iran would quickly fill the power vacuum. Syria wants to make sure it has a foothold in the neighboring country so that it, too, can have some influence, said the diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, which is standard diplomatic practice. 
 The changing role of Iran and Syria in the region, and their diverging interests, come to bear in Lebanon. 
 One Arab diplomat in Lebanon said that Syria felt very strongly that it should be the prime player in Lebanon. 
 That, the diplomat said, may have prompted Syria to press for chaos in Lebanon, feeling that it may derail the international tribunal investigating the death of Rafik Hariri, a former prime minister, but also put it in a position where it may, once again, be asked to use its power and influence in Lebanon to maintain the peace.
 And there is a fear in the country that if the United States is desperate enough about Iraq it might be willing to accept a deal that restores Syrian hegemony over Lebanon. But they also say that tensions are high -- and neither side is willing to back down. ''This government threatens internal stability and civil peace, therefore it is essential to get rid of it through any possible medium,'' said Ahmad Malli, a Hezbollah politburo member. ''I am assured there will be no civil war because the Lebanese today are more mature than they were in 1975.'' 
 Many agree. Yet Mr. Goksel, the former United Nations forces spokesman, said he sensed a risk for renewed conflict that was not negligible.
 ''There are still people in this country who are nostalgic for the civil war,'' he said. ''They miss the days when they were somebody, when they had militias.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LEBANON -- A gunfight in this Christian neighborhood of Beirut was one of the smaller confrontations that eventually led to civil war in 1975. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)
IRAN -- Paramilitary forces held a parade in Tehran yesterday. Iran's growing influence in the region has unnerved even Syria, its longtime ally. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/European Pressphoto Agency)
 SYRIA -- A poster of the last two presidents and the leader of Hezbollah hangs from a car. Syria does not want to lose influence in Lebanon. (Photo by Bassem Tellawi/Associated Press)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (91%); ASSASSINATION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HISTORY (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); HAMAS (75%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%) Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations ; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%) Hezbollah

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%) Michael Slackman; Pierre Gemayel

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LEBANON (98%); SYRIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BAHRAIN (79%) Lebanon; Iran; Saudi Arabia; Egypt; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

 
