

601 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Defends His Policies In Kosovo, China and Mexico

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 26

 BODY:
With surprises abroad and critics at home bedeviling his foreign policy, President Clinton today defended his efforts to cooperate with Mexico in fighting drugs, to engage with China to promote political freedom, and to threaten force to bring peace to Kosovo.
Mr. Clinton tried to step back on a jumbled day of scattershot developments and locate coherent themes in a foreign policy that his critics have long complained reacts to world events more than it anticipates them, and abides the abuses of nations more than it prevents or punishes them. 
 Twice in his broad-gauged, 50-minute speech here, he spoke of the "inexorable logic of globalization." He warned that while increased trade and economic growth might knit nations closer together, without active American leadership they would not guarantee peace, wealth or environmental protection.
"The promise of our future lies in the world," Mr. Clinton said. "Therefore we must work hard with the world -- to defeat the dangers we face together and to build this hopeful moment together, in a generation of peace, prosperity, and freedom."
He went on to list regions and issues where he planned to use the country's troops, trade, aid and cooperation -- rather than its broad, cold shoulder -- to advance his goals.
On Kosovo, the Clinton Administration has faced criticism for setting a deadline for peace talks between Serbs and ethnic Albanian rebels, and then letting it slip.
In his speech, the President declared his intent to certify to Congress that Mexico is cooperating in the fight on drugs, despite the widely held view in his Administration that corruption in the Mexican Government has resulted in less cooperation in the last year. A6.
Mr. Clinton warned Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's President, to exert "restraint, not repression" during the pause in the troubled peace negotiations with the Albanian rebels in the once-autonomous region of Kosovo. "If he does not, NATO is prepared to act," he said. But he did not specify what actions might prompt the long-threatened bombing raids.
And on the day that his State Department issued a scathing summary of China's rights abuses in the annual Human Rights Report, Mr. Clinton called for "principled and purposeful engagement with China, its Government and its people."
Without referring specifically to the State Department's findings, he suggested that China was "moving away from the rule of fear" but was "not yet rooted in the rule of law."
"I do not believe we can hope to bring change to China if we isolate China from the forces of change," he said. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who is preparing to leave for China this weekend, sat to Mr. Clinton's left as he delivered his speech, in a hotel's basement ballroom here. He spoke to the Pacific Council for Globalization, the Commonwealth Club and the World Affairs Council.
With Israelis and Palestinians at an impasse over the President's latest intervention for peace, the Wye River Agreement, Mr. Clinton declared today, "I intend to use the time I have remaining in this office to push for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East," adding, "The people of the Middle East can do it, but time is precious, and they can't afford to waste any more of it."
He began his survey of the world -- which his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, called a "State of the Union for foreign policy" -- with an upbeat appraisal of the times. "For the first time since before the rise of Fascism early in this century, there is no overriding threat to our survival or our freedom," he said. He then described a fifteenfold jump in world trade since the end of World War II that has raised "living standards on every continent."
But, calling for "a little humility," he read a long quotation declaring that an extraordinary increase in trade, travel and information flow had insured that "isolation is no longer possible." The words were said 100 years ago by President William McKinley, Mr. Clinton said, noting that McKinley's optimism was followed by two world wars, the Holocaust, the Great Depression and Communism.
"Had leading nations acted decisively then, perhaps these disasters might have been prevented," he said.
As a result of that experience, he warned: "We cannot assume today that globalization alone will wash away the forces of destruction at the dawn of the 21st century, any more than it did at the dawn of the 20th century. We cannot assume it will bring freedom and prosperity to ordinary citizens around the world who long for them. We cannot assume it will avoid environmental and public health disasters."
Cautioning against what he called an American tendency to withdraw from the world during good times, the President went on to slot his top foreign policy concerns into overlapping categories, listing five "challenges" to the United States in the coming century: building a "more peaceful 21st century world;" bringing Russia and China "into the international system as open, prosperous, stable nations;" protecting against dangers of weapons proliferation, terrorism, drugs and climate change; creating a world trading and financial system that benefits ordinary people, and maintaining freedom as "a top goal."
His aides say that after regarding foreign policy as a regrettable but necessary distraction at the beginning of his first term, Mr. Clinton came to relish the world stage, particularly after 1994, when a Republican Congress stymied much of his domestic agenda. He also became increasingly convinced of the benefits of global trade to American business and of the potential of commercial ties and international organizations to enmesh potentially rogue nations and enforce peace, foster democracy and protect human rights.
Taking more control over his policy, he replaced the mentors of his first term -- notably Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher -- with advisers like Mr. Berger and Ms. Albright whom he regards as peers.
But while he has been credited in his two terms with advances in the Middle East, Haiti and Northern Ireland, Mr. Clinton has been repeatedly criticized for ignoring festering problems, like those in Bosnia and Rwanda. He has been unable to build enough support in his own party to win the special negotiating authority from Congress necessary to strike the free-trade deals that he regards as central to his policy. And critics have accused him of naive optimism that the flow of products and information will ultimately force China and other repressive governments to open their political systems.
Further, Mr. Clinton's go-go optimism for free markets, both of goods and of capital -- encouraged by his Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin -- may have blinded him, critics charge, to the risks posed by furious currency trading to the fragile economies of South East Asia, Latin America and Russia.
Today, he appealed to his audience for help in figuring out what to do about such sloshing of capital in and out of developing countries. "We have got to find a way to facilitate the movement of money -- without which trade and investment cannot occur -- in a way that avoids these dramatic cycles of boom and then bust, which have led to the collapse of economic activity in so many countries around the world," he said.
On a six-day trip through the west, Mr. Clinton flew this afternoon to Los Angeles to attend a fund-raiser this evening. On Saturday, he planned to fly to Utah for a three-day vacation with his family, to celebrate the 19th birthday of his daughter, Chelsea.
At a fund-raiser here Thursday night, he said he had made "no progress" in resolving tensions between Turkey and Greece, or between India and Pakistan. He did not speak so starkly today, but he observed that the standoff in South Asia was a reminder that "the next big war could still be nuclear."
In the Balkans, he urged Americans to heed the lesson that he has said he had learned in Bosnia. "Kosovo is not an easy problem," he said. "But if we don't stop the conflict now, it clearly will spread. And then we will not be able to stop it, except at far greater cost and risk." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); MEXICO (95%); CHINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHINA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA; SERBIA (97%); MEXICO (95%); CHINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); BOMBINGS (66%); CORRUPTION (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



602 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: IN A STIFF REBUKE, U.S. ACCUSES CHINA OF ABUSING RIGHTS

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
One year after saying China had improved its human rights record, the Clinton Administration today issued one of its harshest condemnations of Beijing to date and described some of the most serious human rights violations in recent years.
Released on the eve of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's departure for China, at a time when President Clinton has been criticized for being too easy on the Government in Beijing, the State Department's annual report on rights said that the country's Communist leaders had broken their promises to adhere to international human rights conventions and instead decided last fall "to nip in the bud" attempts to form independent and democratic political parties. 
 The Government also continues to keep several thousand political and religious dissidents imprisoned, tortures prisoners, suppresses Chinese of minority faiths, including Christians outside the official church, and has imposed new press restrictions, according to the report.
Added to a new Pentagon report this week that said China remains a military threat to Taiwan, the human rights document led Congress today to raise new questions about the effectiveness of the Administration's policies of engagement with China.
Last year's rather mild description of China's rights policies provoked criticism that the Administration was overreacting to minor improvements in the hope of removing the issue as an obstacle to trade.
Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, said, "There is a considerable indignation about the Chinese Government's renewed human rights abuses, its proliferation of military technology and its threats to its neighbors."
On Thursday the Senate unanimously passed a resolution co-sponsored by Senator Wellstone and Senator Tim Hutchinson, Republican of Arkansas, asking the Administration to condemn China's human rights record at a United Nations meeting in Geneva.
"What's the hesitation of following up on this strong report with a strong condemnation -- unless commercial interests trump all other interests in this Administration," Senator Wellstone said.
The Administration is unlikely to go along with that suggestion.
In a speech in San Francisco today, President Clinton defended his administration's policy of engagement with China, and suggested that China was "moving away from the rule of fear," even though it was "not yet rooted in the rule of law."
Still, officials worry that China is becoming a tinderbox.
"There is no question that the Chinese leadership is getting very nervous about dissidents and the opposition," a senior Administration official said.
In presenting the report, Harold Hongju Koh, Assistant Secretary of State for democracy, human rights and labor, said Secretary Albright would discuss the report's findings with Chinese leaders when she travels there over the weekend but cautioned that even the most "robust" dialogue would not necessarily lead to changes in China.
"I think it's a mistake to conclude that human rights in China is entirely a function of what U.S. policy is," Mr. Koh said. "The question here is, how can developments within China, which have led to greater economic freedom, and efforts at legal reform, which could bring about sweeping change, be pressed and pushed through a process of engagement?"
There was no immediate response by the Chinese Government to the State Department report.
Administration officials, scholars and leaders of human rights groups all agree that underlying the Chinese Government's fears about social unrest is the downturn in the country's economy. China's annual double-digit economic growth is a thing of the past and Chinese leaders are worried that the growing ranks of the unemployed will join forces with political dissidents and angry farmers and create a situation beyond their control.
"They haven't had the growth they need to continue with their economic reforms," said a senior Administration official involved in China policy. "Their economy is flat. Exports are flat and there is a real increase in labor unrest. That's why the regime is very, very anxious about political unrest."
The report gave China high marks for continuing to open up the economy, and thereby open up society.
"Overall, average citizens go about their daily lives with more personal freedom than ever before: Higher disposable income, looser economic controls, greater freedom of movement, increased access to outside sources of information, greater room for individual choice, and more diversity in cultural life," the report said.
But it went on to say that economic reform has not brought political freedom and that Chinese who try to openly dissent "live in an environment filled with repression."
Edward Friedman, a China scholar at the University of Wisconsin, said, "The hard-liners in the Chinese Government are increasingly in control and the economic liberalizers have to be more circumspect."
In recent years, the Chinese earned praise from the Administration for signing two major international conventions on economic, cultural, civil and political rights that include guarantees of the freedom of association, speech, assembly and religion.
China's leaders have said they would respect the spirit of the law until the national legislature ratifies the treaties, a promise they broke with this year's violations.
"There has been a complete disparity in the commitments China has made by signing the various treaties and their practice of flagrantly violating their citizens' rights," said Mike Jendrzejczyk of Human Rights Watch.
The Pentagon's report to Congress on the military balance between China and Taiwan highlighted how Beijing's deployment of short range-missiles aimed at the Taiwan Straits was meant to intimidate and threaten Taiwan.
While the report said there had been no increases in the number of missiles aimed at Taiwan in the last year, it added that China planned to increase its cruise and ballistic missiles to attain an "overwhelming advantage" over Taiwan by the year 2005.
Congressional concerns over tensions between China and Taiwan as well as tensions between China and its Southeast Asian neighbors over the Spratley Islands in the South China Sea have added to the overall deterioration in Chinese-American relations.
Those issues will be discussed by Ms. Albright in China next week in preparation for the visit by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji to Washington in April.
Moreover, a series of anniversaries in China could spark unrest that might further test China's tolerance of dissent. June 4 is the 10th anniversary of the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square and, on Oct. 1, the country will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (72%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; POLITICAL PRISONERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA RELIGION (95%); HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); TORTURE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CHURCH & STATE (69%); 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



603 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
$153 Million Is Sought For Struggling Farmers

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton is asking Congress for $153 million to make emergency loans to farmers and hire additional employees to process requests for disaster assistance.
The $153 million proposal would enable the Agriculture Department to provide $1.1 billion in direct loans and guaranteed loans for an estimated 10,000 farmers who are unable to get credit from private sources. The department is running out of money to make loans because of the heavy demand for credit. 
 Because of the gloomy farm economy, many bankers are reluctant to lend to marginal farmers unless the Government guarantees the loans.
"Without this help," Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said, "many farmers simply would not be able to put in their spring crops." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



604 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Science Fiction

BYLINE: By Gerald Jonas 

 BODY:
In DISTRACTION (Spectra/Bantam, $23.95) the estimable Bruce Sterling demonstrates why science fiction is such a difficult genre to get right. One of the inventors of cyberpunk, the stylistic and conceptual revolution that helped revitalize science fiction in the 1980's, Sterling has gone on to imagine densely layered futures inhabited by quirkily obsessive characters in novels like "Islands in the Net," "Heavy Weather" and "Holy Fire." The mid-21st-century America that forms the backdrop for "Distraction" is as elaborately detailed as any near-future milieu in recent science fiction. Yet the very detail that Sterling has provided undercuts the story he wants to tell and reduces the players in the drama to bloodless puppets of the authorial imagination.
Oscar Valparaiso, a brilliant political operative, is "not exactly human," having been birthed in a vat by a black market "embryo mill" that fooled around with his DNA to enhance his powers of survival. The book opens at a moment of triumph: Oscar has masterminded the election to the Senate of an idiosyncratic architect named Alcott Bambakias. 
 Sterling's vision of the United States in the year 2044 is challenging, to say the least. Global warming has raised sea levels worldwide, flooding low-lying coastal areas. The Chinese have bankrupted America by making "all English-language intellectual property freely available on their satellite networks"; the Air Force, starved for funds, is shaking down motorists at highway blockades. Birth rates are plunging; death rates are soaring. There are 16 major political parties; "Emergency Congressional committees" and strong local politicians have seized great chunks of power from the Federal Government.
The plot concerns Oscar's efforts to bring some kind of order to the "biggest bio-research center in the world," a famously out-of-control facility known as the Buna National Collaboratory. But so unlikely is the next-century scenario concocted by Sterling that I found myself unable to take the actions of his characters seriously, even as satire. Ideas as counterintuitive as the bankrupting of the United States by the overnight obliteration of copyright and trademark laws cannot function as mere background for other events; they call for front-and-center treatment on their own.
Sterling seems aware that readers may balk at his wilder suppositions; he pre-emptively tags his imagined America as "weird," "mad," "crazy." Oscar's behavior, which follows no rules I could divine, raises similar objections, which are hardly laid to rest by having a colleague characterize him as "just a very, very weird guy."
Many of Sterling's speculations, taken separately, are entertaining if only because of their thought-provoking absurdity. But strung together without regard for historical or narrative logic, they overwhelm the reader, ultimately failing to engage either the mind or the emotions.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	William Shatner, who once fought for universal decency as Capt. James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise, has lent his talents (or at least his name) to several series of science fiction books for young people. STEP INTO CHAOS (Harper Prism, $23) is the third novel in his "Quest for Tomorrow" series. I confess that I have not read the first two volumes, but Shatner has thoughtfully provided a four-and-a-half-page synopsis that is no more confusing than the novel itself. Suffice it to say that the 17-year-old Jim Endicott holds the key to the fate of the human species, not to mention at least two rival galactic empires. Getting him to shoulder his responsibilities is not easy, however, because he has been drinking too much ever since he accidentally killed the man he believed to be his father.
We know that he is suffering because when his mother bursts into tears, "guilt bloomed as a ball of nausea in his stomach." Saving the universe leaves precious little time for therapy, even with a shrink savvy enough to understand that Jim's experiences have left him with a severe case of "adolescent adjustment disorder." Fortunately, Jim pulls himself together in time to confront some really scary stuff, like the telepathic machinations of the disembodied intelligence known as Outsider: "The darkness seemed to breathe inside his skull. Then it subsided, leaving behind the emotional equivalent of a bathtub ring, a feeling of scum stuck to the sides of his psyche."
What makes science fiction such a remarkable genre is that in fewer than 240 pages an emotionally and stylistically challenged protagonist like Jim can end up chatting with God, resuscitating the man he called Dad and reinventing the universe. Through it all, Jim remains the same decent teen-ager he has always been. When he learns in the new and improved universe that he has killed someone -- not Dad this time but Dad's would-be assassin -- the nausea of guilt blooms on cue in his gut: "It felt . . . it felt awful."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	In contrast, all the hilarity in GODSHOME (Tor/Tom Doherty, $22.95), by Robert Sheckley, is intentional. Sheckley has long been considered one of the genre's leading humorists -- a somewhat hollow distinction since, with the exception of Douglas Adams's "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" series, science fiction has rarely enjoyed laughing at itself. And in fact "Godshome" is better described as a whimsical fantasy with scientific trappings.
When Arthur Fenn, an unemployed "Ph.D. in comparative mythology," receives an ancient Hebrew tome, he is slow to realize that the spells scratched on its pages give him access to the gods of earlier civilizations. These deities, who lost their jobs when their last worshipers died, live in a cosmic old-age facility called Godshome. Despite Fenn's entreaties, most prefer to remain in comfortable retirement rather than help him out of the financial jam he has stumbled into. The only gods who answer his call turn out to be mischief makers. Getting rid of them requires, in the end, the creation of a new universe.
Sheckley has some fun with the grumpy old divinities, who refuse to return to the "god eat god" rivalries on Earth, and with the false religion started by the real gods who accept Arthur's invitation. But in places the whimsy gets as thick as week-old goulash. To enter fully into the spirit of "Godshome," you have to be able to enjoy the banter of a narcissistic "singularity" at the center of a black hole, whose appearance varies from "a ball of wiry black hair out of which two bright eyes peeked" to a "green 1938 Oldsmobile," and who asks Arthur during an interview, "So how did you like my event horizon?" Other readers may second the opinion of a minor deity named Scabber who reveals that "if there's one thing a god finds boring it's talking to a human in a dream." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DISTRACTION (BOOK); STEP INTO CHAOS (BOOK); GODSHOME (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); POLITICS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); COPYRIGHT LAW (69%); TRADEMARKS (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (65%); COASTAL AREAS (65%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); TRADEMARK LAW (50%); 

PERSON: JONAS, GERALD; STERLING, BRUCE; SHATNER, WILLIAM; SHECKLEY, ROBERT BRUCE STERLING (92%); JIM ENDICOTT (78%); OSCAR VALPARAISO (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



605 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By SCOTT VEALE

 BODY:

AMERICA IN BLACK AND WHITE: One Nation, Indivisible
By Stephan Thernstrom and Abigail Thernstrom.
Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $18.
Two social scientists argue in language that alternates between combative and generous that it was World War II and not civil rights laws and Government intervention that led to better prospects for black America. In 1997 our reviewer, Nicholas Lemann, was not fully persuaded but praised the "eloquence, toughness and conviction" of their proposals to improve race relations.
 
NIGHT TRAIN
By Martin Amis. Vintage International, $11.
The tough-talking detective Mike Hoolihan is a "big blond old broad" assigned to investigate the apparent suicide of the daughter of her commanding officer, a father figure to both women who saved Hoolihan from her alcoholism. Last year our reviewer, Patrick McGrath, called this "a police procedural that elegantly defers to the conventions of the genre while at the same time sinking its probes deep into the question of human motivation." He added that "this brilliant, painful short novel is . . . so profoundly inflected with grief that it achieves in the end a sort of melancholy grandeur." 

THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS:
The Battle Between Government and the Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World
By Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw.
Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $15.
This ambitious study charts an extraordinary revolution in progress: the shift in the balance of power from big government to market forces, and the effects of that change on global politics, economics and culture. The result is "a colorful and even suspenseful story of how the world has been transformed over the last half century," Jeffrey E. Garten wrote in the Book Review in 1998. In OPENING AMERICA'S MARKET: U.S. Foreign Trade Policy Since 1776, by Alfred E. Eckes Jr. (University of North Carolina, $19.95), a former trade official in the Bush and Reagan Administrations traces the history of American trade policy to help readers sort through the arguments of both free-traders and protectionists. In 1995 in these pages, Michael Lind called this "a dispassionate, informed and accessible account."
 
A LOVER'S ALMANAC
By Maureen Howard. Penguin, $12.95.
Modeled on the "Old Farmer's Almanac," this novel strives to demystify the millennium by following a couple of Generation X'ers and an extended cast of lively minor characters into the year 2000. It's a strange brew, but it's also "rich propaganda" and "the product of obsessive craft," Lorna Sage said here in 1998.
 
LIFE WITH A STAR
By Jiri Weil. Northwestern University, $15.95.
The little-known but influential Czech author, who died in 1959, tells the tale of a lonely ex-bank clerk struggling to survive in an unnamed city against the tyranny of an unnamed enemy: it happens that the man is Jewish, the city is Prague and his tormentors are the Nazis, but the story gains power through its universality. In 1989 our reviewer, Anne Tyler, admired this "stripped, stark, uninflected novel." The same publisher has reissued another of Weil's books, MENDELSSOHN IS ON THE ROOF ($15.95), in which a Nazi officer orders the removal of a statue of the Jewish composer from the roof of Prague's concert hall, with disastrous results. "This brilliant novel . . . is dominated by a powerful authorial presence," Larry Wolff wrote in these pages in 1991.
 
DREAMING OF HITLER: Passions & Provocations
By Daphne Merkin. Harvest/Harcourt Brace, $13.
These strikingly personal essays and musings take on such hot-button topics as adultery, the thrill of shoplifting and the author's fondness for sexual spanking. "Her tone is a curious blend of girlishness and old-fashioned literary starchiness," Kate Jennings wrote here in 1997.
 
DESSA ROSE
By Sherley Anne Williams. Quill/Morrow, $12.
This novel reshapes two incidents from the antebellum South -- one involving a pregnant black woman sentenced to death for leading a slave uprising, the other a lone white woman who gives sanctuary to fugitive slaves on her farm -- so that the women meet and form an unlikely bond. The result is an "emotionally affecting and totally unforgettable" book, David Bradley wrote here in 1986. JUBILEE, by Margaret Walker (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $8.95), is the story of Vyry, the strong-willed child of a white plantation owner and his black mistress, who comes of age during the Civil War years. "'Jubilee' chronicles the triumph of a free spirit over many kinds of bondages," Wilma Dykeman wrote here in 1966.
 
A MARCH TO MADNESS:
The View From the Floor in the Atlantic Coast Conference
By John Feinstein. Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.
This account of the 1996-97 college basketball season unfolds through the eyes of the nine coaches in the Atlantic Coast Conference. "Using his near-unlimited access, Feinstein is able to describe the highs and lows each coach experiences," David Davis wrote here in 1998.
 
NIGHT BEAT: A Shadow History of Rock & Roll
By Mikal Gilmore. Anchor/Doubleday, $15.95.
A journalist explores the dark side of rock-and-roll -- the danger, excess and nihilism that infuse the work of musicians as varied as Elvis Presley and Kurt Cobain. Last year our reviewer, Michael E. Ross, admired these "witty, accessible and moving essays." SCOTT VEALE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Amis (Quina Fonseca/Vintage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List; Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); MEN (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); SUICIDE (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PROTECTIONISM (68%); GENERATION X (67%); 

PERSON: LOUIS 'MARTIN' AMIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



606 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7004 words

HEADLINE: Fear Itself

BYLINE: By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
It was a beautiful, springlike day in early December, and as Ruth Lippin sat in an examination room at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, waiting for her very interesting brain to be scanned in the adjoining neuroimaging suite, she gazed out the window and took in what was once for her a bloodcurdling scene: the Hudson River, the Jersey Palisades drenched in sun and, looming in the middle distance like a nightmare hammered together out of rivet and steel, the George Washington Bridge. There was a time not too long ago, the 39-year-old Lippin said cheerfully, when the mere thought of crossing that bridge in an automobile filled her with extreme dread, a physiological immersion in fear most of us can only imagine.
"Somehow I figured out how to get the phone number of the 24-hour control booth for the bridge," she said, still dismayed by the depth of her anxiety and embarrassed about the ingenuity it inspired. Lippin -- a mother of two, a lawyer and now a Manhattan therapist who treats people with phobias -- recalled the lengths to which she used to go to avoid getting stuck in traffic on the bridge. "I would call them, and I'd say, 'I know this sounds crazy, but I'm in a car and I'm anxious about crossing the bridge in traffic and want to know if it's clear or not.' And if it wasn't, then I wouldn't go over." 
 That is the disabling equation of anxiety disorders: irrational fear equals irrational behavior. If Lippin went ahead and then got out there in the middle and couldn't move, she feared, she would feel trapped and threatened and then might do something, well . . . crazy. In fact, she did sometimes get trapped, but she never did anything crazy. Yet people with panic disorders spend their lives avoiding situations because they're afraid of something that never happens.
Ruth Lippin had other fears too. Back in 1987, after she had diligently studied law for three years, she was plunged into total dread when she heard the news that she'd have to take her bar exam in Brooklyn, which to her meant choosing one phobic nightmare or another -- bridge or tunnel. Later, in an attempt to overcome her fear of subways, she repeatedly rode the 1, 2 or 3 train with a friend, yo-yoing up and down the West Side of Manhattan for hours like Pynchon's Benny Profane, so that she could go to work like everybody else.
As we spoke, a Columbia-Presbyterian technician, Manuel de la Nuez, probed for a vein in her right arm and inserted an intravenous line, which would deliver a radioactive isotope that would illuminate her brain's activity during a positron emission tomography, or PET, scan. Then a group of researchers ushered Lippin into the cramped working area of the PET scanner. Like other research groups, the Columbia team, headed by Dr. Jack Gorman, a psychopharmacologist, is using the latest high-tech imaging tools to study what fear, worry and obsession actually look like under the skull, what parts become active when a fear takes hold, how its intensity and its duration may vary from person to person. These psychiatric researchers -- this term was largely oxymoronic until a generation ago -- are looking at the effects of drugs and even some forms of psychotherapy to see what works on fear and to begin plotting more exacting methods of treatment.
For more than a century, scientists have pondered the nature of fear and anxiety, and how they cause the physical symptoms that contribute to so much human suffering. Anxiety disorders, officially categorized only in 1980, include panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, social phobia, specific phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder. Taken together, they are the most common mental illnesses in the country, affecting more than 23 million Americans. Recent epidemiological studies by Ronald C. Kessler of Harvard Medical School suggest not only that their prevalence is greater than previously thought, but also that many people suffer from more than one disorder at the same time, often accompanied by depression.
In the past few years, researchers like those at Columbia have begun pointing their increasingly powerful imaging machines at the brain to study these disorders and, thanks to the groundwork laid by a spectacular decade of research on fear in animals, have an excellent idea about where to aim. Lippin, for example, is a participant in a scientific study of the brain's circuitry of fear before and after the use of antidepressant medication, cognitive behavioral therapy or both. Like other subjects in the study, Lippin had been treated with both a drug (Zoloft in her case) and cognitive behavioral therapy for panic disorder.
Psychiatrists, neuroscientists, even cognitive psychologists are all using the new tools to take our understanding of the biology of fear to a higher level. In an explosion of new research, every aspect of fear is being scrutinized, measured, recorded and mapped out. Recent studies at Massachusetts General Hospital, for example, have provided graphic evidence that phobics and people with post-traumatic stress disorder tend to display unusual activity in the brain's fear centers, experiencing their fears more intensely than normal subjects. An as-yet-unpublished study by researchers led by Jill M. Hooley at Harvard has offered preliminary evidence that the fear circuitry becomes activated when subjects hear tapes of a parent criticizing them. As a result of these and other preliminary studies, doctors are approaching the day -- not soon, but foreseeable -- when imaging machines may ultimately reveal a broken psyche with as much routine precision as an X-ray shows a broken bone. In addition to suggesting new avenues of treatment, the research is lending inadvertent support to a very old interpretation of the brain -- namely the Freudian notion of unconscious fears -- although neuroscientists prefer not to view it that way.
Dr. Steven E. Hyman, director of the National Institute of Mental Health, has taken an especially prominent role in promoting an alliance between basic neuroscientists and psychiatric practitioners in the study of anxiety disorders. Although Hyman sometimes likes to deride what he sees as the indiscriminate use of M.R.I. and PET scans as a high-tech form of phrenology, with their point-and-shoot approach to pretty but inconsequential pictures of the brain, he makes an exception when it comes to the biology of fear and anxiety. "I've been pushing the basic scientists and the clinicians together because I think the research in this area has been exemplary. . . . The animal model has identified a number of circuits in the brain. Already, we're getting away from a phrenological view of the brain. If you look at a lot of human brain studies, they basically say, 'This part of the brain lights up, that part lights up. . . . ' That's phrenology. Here we have a template for thinking in a much more sophisticated way about how the brain works." Understanding this circuitry, Hyman says, will ultimately lead to diagnoses and treatments of unprecedented precision.
Such research is already shedding light on Ruth Lippin's battle for normalcy. Anxiety is ultimately an isolating condition, and it is somehow appropriate that she experienced her first panic attack in, of all places, the middle of a farm field in Holland, on a teen-age tour of Europe. It was the summer of 1976, and she was visiting a Dutch family in the country. She can picture the little farmhouse in the midst of acres of fields. She remembers cows. She remembers a banal conversation with her Dutch hostess that nevertheless took her, without warning, to an abyss she has since visited time and time again.
"We were sitting out in the middle of a field," she recalls. "Just vast. I remember the vastness. I suggested getting together with my friends that evening, and she said she didn't go out at night, and it definitely triggered a feeling of isolation and not having control over the situation. And then" -- she pauses at the memory -- "there was that huge adrenaline rush. Just this sense of being in very serious danger. Then the sweating, the heart palpitations and the sticky palms. It reminds you of what you feel like at the end of an aerobic workout. You're exhausted. That's why people with panic disorder walk around in a perpetual state of exhaustion."
That and the enervating fear that, out of the blue, it will happen again.
Some fears are stark and immediate; others simmer in the brainpan, warmed by imagination and worry. A number of years ago, my father, my brother, Eric, and I were camped on a lake in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area, on the border between Minnesota and Canada. After a day of fishing, we had retired for the night, the three of us arrayed in our sleeping bags. As usual, my brother and I were unable to sleep because of a persistent rhythmic guttural sound: my father's snoring. This went on for some time, until Eric finally got exasperated and said, "Dad, pleeeease stop snoring!" To which my father replied, "I'm wide awake." Which led all of us to simultaneously ponder the source of the sound that had been keeping us up.
We nervously peered outside the tent at -- and I'm sure there will someday be research claiming that fear sometimes causes visual exaggerations -- the largest black bear I've ever seen, standing on his back legs, swatting at our food pack, which we had shrewdly suspended from the branch of a tree. Not so shrewdly, however, we had selected a tree about three feet from the entrance to our tent. A family friend who experienced a similar close encounter put it best: "Now I know the difference between anxiety and fear."
I'll get back to that bear, but first a little detour. Although I didn't know it at the time, we had managed to pitch camp in a century-old debate about the nature of emotion, which started with a very smart observation by William James, the 19th-century American philosopher. James was among the very first thinkers, along with Charles Darwin, to seriously ponder the nature of emotions in general, and of fear in particular, from a scientific perspective. (It turns out that James was also a closet phobic, terrified of being alone.) In an 1884 article in the philosophy journal Mind, he asked an unusually prescient question about the nature of emotion, using as an example a person's fear upon encountering a bear. Does he run because he feels afraid, or does he feel afraid after he has already started running? Put another way, does a person have time to think something is frightening, or does the reaction to fear precede the thought?
James concluded it was the latter, arguing that "the bodily changes follow directly the perception of the exciting fact, and that our feeling of the same changes as they occur is the emotion." Ever since, there has been a kind of chicken-and-egg debate in psychology and the neurosciences about what comes first: the conscious awareness of fear (or emotion) or the physiological trimmings that come with it, like a pounding heart and waves of adrenaline, the better to fight or flee. It turns out that the answers to that 19th-century question will undoubtedly influence our understanding, and treatment, of anxiety disorders in the 21st century.
It was another, more philosophic observation by James that strikes at the central paradox of modern anxiety disorders. "The progress from brute to man is characterized by nothing so much as by the decrease in frequency of proper occasions for fear," James wrote. "In civilized life, in particular, it has at last become possible for large numbers of people to pass from the cradle to the grave without ever having had a pang of genuine fear." Civilized life is so safe, James suggested, and humans have so much cognitive firepower, that they should be protected against the instinctual, feral fears that quicken the pulse of so many other creatures that prowl the earth.
Fear and its fellow traveler, anxiety, in some ways represent a hard-wired alarm system in the brain in search of genuine life-threatening dangers. We tend not to encounter mastodons, saber-toothed tigers and other predators that prowled the earth eons ago, and yet we, like all mammals, have been evolutionarily equipped to respond to such threats instantaneously. We still respond to danger signals, but more often than not we've come to associate danger with social predators and situations -- the boss at work, the intolerant mate, the teacher, the bully. It may also be one of the paradoxes of our age that we've created entire economies around activating this fear system under safe conditions in the form of theme-park rides and Stephen King novels and films that have us on the edges of our seats. It is as if an archival survival circuit in our brains has become a cathartic button that gets pushed at great profit, the center of billion-dollar economies based on the vicarious experience of life-threatening fear.
By the same token, the proliferation of phobias and panic disorders may represent the overreaction of a life-preserving neural mechanism to normal everyday social stimuli. Only by the wildest stretch of the imagination should the George Washington Bridge represent a threat to one's very survival. And yet imagination, especially about the future, is precisely the engine that drives so many human fears -- fear of the unknown, fear of nuclear holocaust and in recent years fear of contracting AIDS. As Joseph LeDoux, a prominent neuroscientist at New York University, put it, "A rat can't worry about the stock market crashing." But we can.
"One of the things that is so important about having anxiety and fear is some understanding that there's a future," says Jack Gorman of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. "Humans with generalized anxiety disorder -- that is always a disorder characterized by anticipation of future events. I don't know that a monkey is capable of that."
It has been traditional to think about fear (and anxiety) as a battle ultimately waged between the rational and irrational minds, between human reason and animal fear. In all but the most dangerous circumstances, it is a battle that reason and rationality should win every time, as William James suggested, and yet the fact that 10 to 15 percent of adults in America suffer from some sort of anxiety-based disorder argues that exaggerated or irrational fear is a widespread feature of the modern condition.
However, that traditional version of the battle between the rational and irrational brain is being recast as an anatomical scenario that has everyone from psychopharmacologists to Freudian analysts excited: the experience of irrational fear and anxiety represents a battle between conscious "autobiographical" memory and unconscious emotional memory. Human experiments in just the past year have confirmed that fear travels in at least two distinct circuits in the brain, one of which threads its way through the higher, cortical (thinking) precincts of the brain and one of which seems to occur with lightning speed just below the radar of our awareness. As neuroscientists like to point out, the brain processes sights and sounds, including threatening ones, in milliseconds, while the simplest thought takes full seconds to develop.
Which brings me back to the bear in the woods, for in a curious way our actions (and reactions) that night loosely recapitulated the varieties of fearful experiences that can afflict the human mind. There was an initial surge of, if I may, Jamesian fear when we realized we were in danger. But then the rational part of my brain wheeled into action -- when a bear comes into your camp, it remembered, you should be able to shag it away by beating on a pan and making lots of noise. We proceeded to make a racket, and the bear slunk off into the woods. But it wasn't entirely deterred. We heard it pacing back and forth on the periphery of the camp, snorting and sulking, its bulk both snapping branches and rattling our nerves, leading to a different stage of fear: worry.
And then, at some point during the night, the sound of the bear moving back and forth on the periphery changed. It sounded as if it was coming closer. In fact, it was coming closer, in a big hurry. In a fine group rendition of the fight-or-flight response, we all leapt to our feet and, with racing hearts and surges of adrenalized motion, jumped into our canoe and paddled as if our middle name were Evinrude. We spent the rest of a very long night listening to the bear devour everything from buttermilk pancake mix to cans of Spam.
That was in 1971. Now imagine that all the back and forth that had gone on inside our heads, that debate between fear and reason, could be recast as a dialogue between parts of the brain, and that those parts had names and belonged to an increasingly well-defined circuit, and that you could begin to see the dialogue unfold in an imaging machine. Imagine further that some people, because of a genetic predisposition or the quirk of personal brain chemistry, might later have anxiety attacks when they saw a can of Spam, or become phobic about camping. Finally, imagine that the sheer act of imagination -- powered by the greatest cognitive machine in the history of evolution, the human brain -- could activate the same circuitry of fear as a charging bear. That is precisely what many neuroscientists have begun to think when it comes to irrational fears in the brain, and all neural roads seem to run through a thimble-size bit of brain tissue known as the amygdala.
Although I didn't fully appreciate it at the time, I had the rare privilege of seeing Joseph LeDoux's amygdala kick into overdrive when I went to talk to him about his research on fear. We were walking down a street near Washington Square on our way to lunch one day, when out of the corner of my eye, I noticed the Henry and Lucy Moses Professor of Science at N.Y.U. slowly hunker down into something halfway between a cringe and a crouch. Edging ever so slightly closer to the wall, he kept a wary eye on a small boy coming from the opposite direction. The boy happened to have a rather large boa constrictor draped around his neck and over his arms, and LeDoux happens to have a fear -- a deep, ingrained fear -- of snakes. "That's what I'm afraid of," LeDoux said.
More than any other researcher, LeDoux has put the amygdala -- two nubbins of neural tissue (one on either side of the brain) -- at the center of what he calls the Wheel of Fear. Located near the center of the skull, the amygdala belongs to an archaic part of the brain, a part found in birds and reptiles, often referred to as the "limbic system," although LeDoux doesn't much care for the term. It has long been associated with emotion, especially fear. There are a handful of patients in the United States and Europe who have totally lost the use of the amygdala. While they are not, as might be expected, fearless, they do display subtle social quirks, according to Ralph Adolphs of the University of Iowa, like an unusually trusting manner and an inability to recognize fear in other people's faces.
LeDoux is not the only biologist to have homed in on the amygdala. Bruce Kapp of the University of Vermont started by studying one of the signature aspects of fear, changes in heart rate, and worked back to the brain. Beginning in 1979, he focused on the part of the brain stem that controls heart rate in rabbits. Following the nerve filaments like a spent fuse back into the brain, he discovered that these fibers lead to the amygdala. Not only that, they also lead to a small hive of related nerve cells in the amygdala, a bit larger than the head of a pin, known as the central nucleus.
What was found to be true in rabbits, and later in rats, now appears to be true in humans as well. The central nucleus is the part of your brain that instantaneously looses the hounds of fear when you hear a loud bang, feel an earthquake, see Alan Arkin lunge for Audrey Hepburn that last time in "Wait Until Dark." Nerves running out from this little knot of excitation carry the messages that control heart rate, blood pressure, sweating, respiration, freezing, increased jumpiness -- all the engines that get revved in a fearful situation. But the wiring doesn't stop there. Other nerve fibers from the amygdala thread their way back (or "project") into the upper parts of the brain, to regions that control the release of stress hormones (which may play a major role in the reign of irrational fears), to the cortex and to sensory areas. So when a threat occurs, when imminent danger needs to be sorted out right away, alarms go off throughout the brain -- and a result of this richly thatched neural alarm system, says Kapp, is a very alert individual. "One of our hypotheses is that a number of these projections enhance arousal; you open your sensory gates and process information more efficiently." So fear, in this telling, has a kind of distinctly modern responsibility: it instantly primes animals, presumably including us, to notice novelty and pay special attention to, indeed, the shock of the new.
Ledoux came at the amygdala from a different direction. He set up an experiment in rats known as fear conditioning, which works like this: You give the animal a tone, followed shortly by a mild shock, so that the animal is "conditioned" to have a fear response to the sound alone. Then you try to trace the circuit by which the brain converts the sound into a fear response.
Over the last decade or so, LeDoux and others have worked out this circuitry in lab rats step by step, each accreted detail sending a small ripple through the world of human psychology. His laboratory has been able to show that as soon as conditioned animals hear the tone that precedes a shock, the auditory information travels to a way station in the brain known as the sensory thalamus, an essential stop for any incoming information about the world, and then immediately continues on to the amygdala. In rats, a fear-inducing sound goes from the ear to the amygdala in 12 milliseconds -- that is, 12 one-thousandths of a second. Moreover, LeDoux says, cells in this corner of the amygdala, known as the lateral nucleus, "learn" and memorize the fearful stimulus with incredible rapidity and tenacity. The research suggests that all it takes is one terrifying experience to form a lifelong emotional memory, one that is extremely difficult to erase.
While LeDoux's lab has concentrated on this downstairs circuit, the laboratory of Michael Davis, now at Emory University in Atlanta after 29 years at Yale, has sketched out what might be considered the high road in the processing of fear, one that may more closely mirror the routine processing of fearful information in humans. It passes from the sensory organs, like the eyes and ears, and lingers in the cortex, where conscious memories are formed, before threading down to the amygdala. Davis has also tentatively identified a separate destination, called the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, which is heavily connected to the amygdala and seems to control chronic states of fear like anxiety and worry.
This may sound like a lot of dense neural cartography, but the significance for psychiatry, if the same dual circuitry pertains to humans, would be profound. It suggests that because there are two different neural routes to the amygdala, two different kinds of fear-related memory can form. Indeed, one of the most provocative things about LeDoux's circuit is where it doesn't go. It doesn't go to the thinking part of the brain first. And what that implies -- certainly in rats, and almost certainly in humans like Ruth Lippin -- is that we experience, learn and unconsciously commit to emotional memory many fearful situations, without ever being aware of what has triggered the racing heart and quick pulse.
One hallmark of a panic attack, for example, is that its victim cannot understand what has triggered such a powerful reaction. The implication of fear-conditioning experiments in animals is that we have a separate memory of a fearful stimulus, be it a bear or a dinner party, lodged in the amygdala, probably informed by things we have heard or seen but do not consciously remember. So it's as if we walk through the world half-blind, bumping into archival stimuli, things we never knew scared us, things that we can't consciously remember but that nevertheless set in motion inexplicable and disturbing sensations of dread. Freudian analysts who have followed the work of LeDoux and others have been quick to point out that neuroscience's version of unconscious fear, in the words of Dr. Jean Roiphe, a Manhattan analyst, "strongly corresponds with the Freudian notion that it's indelible and never goes away."
Indeed, the sheer amount of environmental information pouring into the brain at any given moment -- not to mention at terrifying moments -- is probably more than consciousness can keep up with. This notion underpins one of the most startling messages to come out of the neurosciences in recent years: that most of what the brain does occurs outside of, and inaccessible to, our awareness. "Consciousness," says LeDoux, "is the weird thing, the unusual thing."
The big question, of course, is just how much delivering shocks to lab rats can tell us about human behavior. It clearly doesn't tell the whole story, everyone agrees, but it's beginning to tell us quite a bit. Just within the past year, the first returns from the neuroimaging suite support the idea that human fears and anxiety can form subconsciously. In a PET study just published, Dr. Ray Dolan of the Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology in London has demonstrated that in humans, as in LeDoux's rats, a fear-conditioning route bypasses the cognitive part of the brain. Elizabeth Phelps of Yale and her co-workers have also recently demonstrated that fear conditioning in humans activates the amygdala in the same way it does in rats.
And Paul Whalen, Dr. Scott Rauch and their co-workers at Massachusetts General Hospital recently reported a clever experiment confirming that humans can indeed activate their fear circuitry without ever being aware of it. The Mass General researchers used an approach suggestive of subliminal advertising known as "masking"; they showed subjects in an M.R.I. machine photographs of fearful faces for a mere 33 milliseconds, followed by a longer, masking exposure to expressionless faces for 167 milliseconds. The subjects had no conscious memory of seeing the fearful faces, yet their brains unequivocally did; the amygdala lighted up even during the brief flash of a fearful face, but not afterward and not during the similarly brief exposure of a happy face. "So it's a very fast and preferential way to get information," says Whelan. "Anxiety is about hypervigilance, and this is a vigilance system."
The animal work of LeDoux, Davis and Kapp has inspired neuro-scientists to explore fear in humans, and so when Liz Phelps asked if I wanted to be a subject in a fear-conditioning experiment, I jumped at the opportunity to go where only rats had gone before. "I don't want to get into too much detail here," she said over the phone when we set up the appointment. But, she added, packaging informed consent into an understated aside, "you may receive a shock."
When I arrived at the Yale School of Medicine, I proceeded downstairs to the basement, where the imaging machine filled the M.R.I. suite with a slow, mechanical throb. Kevin O'Connor, one of Phelps's colleagues, attached electrodes to my left arm and to fingertips on my left hand. The latter would measure galvanic skin response, an indicator -- like heart rate or blood pressure -- of an instantaneous, almost involuntary fear response. The one on my arm could deliver a shock. The echoplanar M.R.I., meanwhile, would track activity in my brain.
The experiment was deceptively simple. Looking through a mirror above my head as I lay motionless in the tube, I would see a blue square projected onto a screen for exactly 18 seconds, then a yellow square for 18 seconds, then a sign that said "Rest." "You may receive a shock when the yellow square is on," Kevin's voice said over the intercom, "but there will be no chance of a shock associated with the blue square." So blue was cool, but yellow was trouble.
They first took a series of M.R.I. pictures to establish the basic architecture of my brain. Then the fear experiment began. The first thing to appear was a blue square, with a digital clock counting down to zero. When the yellow square came on, I could almost feel electrons surging like Mongol hordes down my arm toward the electrodes on my fingertips. But nothing happened, and then the "Rest" sign came on.
The same thing happened during the second cycle of blue, yellow and rest, and by the third cycle, it occurred to me that maybe I should inform Kevin that the shock electrode didn't seem to be working. By the fourth cycle, I finally began to realize (duh) what was going on: nothing. "As you probably noticed," Kevin said after it was all over, "we didn't give you a shock." And he made far too little effort, in my opinion, to suppress a chuckle when the data showing my skin conductance responses came up on the screen of his laptop. My own private Switzerland: the jagged lines traced five alpine leaps of fear that corresponded to the five times the yellow square had appeared during the experiment. "Very robust indeed," he said. Liz Phelps's cool professional assessment of the initial data was even more disconcerting. "Ooooh," she cried, "look at that!"
Later, M.R.I. film in hand, I joined Phelps for lunch. "So," she began, in a memorable conversational icebreaker, "let's see your brain." While she examined the cross-sections, Phelps explained that the experiment -- done in collaboration with Mike Davis -- was designed to see if the amygdala played a role in anticipatory fear. "You can be afraid of the dog in the neighborhood because the dog bit you," she said, "and that's like fear conditioning, or you can be afraid of the dog in your neighborhood because you heard that the dog bit somebody else. Either way, you're going to have a fear reaction. But in one of them you have this direct experience, and in the other one you don't." In other words, learning, hearsay, rumor, word of mouth, subliminal suggestion, even the empathic horror we sometimes feel listening to details of a plane crash might create a hand-me-down sense of fear. "So the question I wanted to ask," Phelps continued, "is, 'Does the amygdala get activated when you just hear about a fearful situation?"'
The answer appears to be yes. In the experiment I participated in, for example, no one received an actual shock, but I and other participants all associated a certain square with the likelihood of a shock and fired up our amygdalas -- in effect, underwent fear conditioning of the sort done in rats -- solely on the basis of what we'd been told. The experiment hinted at a more extended circuitry of fear in humans, because several other brain structures became active during the exercise, including the anterior cingulate and the insula. It's not exactly clear what their role is in this setting, Phelps told me later, although the cingulate seems to be involved in attention and the insula with cognitive understanding of fear.
The role of the imagination in anticipatory anxiety and fear introduces a powerful cognitive wild card to the prevailing disorders of our age, which is why the psychiatric community has been following these experiments with great interest. One of the emerging theories of anxiety disorders, advanced by Jack Gorman, who has been studying them for 20 years, is that each variation -- phobia, panic attack, post-traumatic stress disorder and so on -- represents a glitch somewhere in the fear circuitry, either because of an inherited biochemistry (nature) or remembered experiences (nurture), all this in turn modulated by the effects of stress, which alters body chemistry in a way that seems to accentuate irrational or unfounded fears, and by the effects of cognition, which can both hatch or defuse irrational fears.
The point, says Gorman, is that anxiety disorders seem to be a uniquely human phenomenon. They seem to involve the prefrontal cortex, he says, the part of the brain that differentiates us from the chimpanzees. "It explains the overlap between the different anxiety disorders, because you can think about how you tweak different parts of the system and you're going to get a different disorder," he says. "You know, bang on the amygdala and you're going to get panic attacks. Bang on the hippocampus and you're going to get post-traumatic stress disorder. You mess up the medial prefrontal cortex and you're going to get too much worrying. They're all within the same system."
The implications of these theories for treatment are complicated. Existing medications like the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (S.S.R.I.'s), which include Prozac and Zoloft, are generally pretty effective for anxiety disorders, Gorman says, but recent studies have suggested more precise targets for a new generation of drugs that are already in the pipeline. Merck and Pfizer, for example, are working on new antidepressant and antianxiety medications that specifically block molecules that seem to arouse the fear circuitry, including corticotropin-releasing hormone, Substance P and glutamate. And there is an intriguing question buried in the saga of Ruth Lippin and so many other patients: Why does cognitive behavioral therapy seem to be as effective as drugs?
Around the time she passed the bar and began working as a lawyer representing tenants in their disputes against landlords, Lippin knew she needed to explore other treatment options. For about 10 years, she had been taking a powerful antianxiety drug called Ativan, which at first moderated her symptoms and then often made them worse. For almost as long, meanwhile, she had tried many forms of psychotherapy. It was almost by accident that she was referred, in 1987, to a cognitive behavioral therapist.
Developed in the 1960's by the psychiatrist Aaron T. Beck, this form of therapy gradually gets people with anxiety disorders to talk about, physically approach and ultimately experience the very things that terrify them. To render this particular form of therapy in the idiom of modern neurobiology, it deliberately sets up a program of repeated, programmed self-awareness exercises to rewire connections in the brain and form helpful new memories, just as repetitive practicing of the piano gradually creates a memory of motor skills. Thus, in the late 1980's, when Lippin rode the subway two hours a day, three days a week, as "practice," or sat in traffic on the West Side Highway, learning to live with recurrent waves of adrenaline, she was in a subtle but significant way creating new synapses, new memories and thus new cognitive ways to override the fears she knew only too well. "I could not believe I'd wasted 10 years of my life on inappropriate therapies," Lippin says, "and I'm a pretty resourceful person. I could have been helped, but I didn't know."
Her most severe personal tribulation came when she wanted to have children. When she began taking Ativan, she says, doctors told her its side effects were limited, but it can be difficult to discontinue its use. "Like a good phobic," she says, "I became very dependent on it psychologically as well as physically." She knew she would have to discontinue the drug during the course of a pregnancy, and she wasn't sure she could handle the stress. That was when she began to seek the help of a psychopharmacologist, Jack Gorman.
With a great amount of difficulty, Gorman weaned Lippin off Ativan, and at the end of 1991, she became pregnant with her daughter, Rachel. "As the pregnancy proceeded," she recalls, "I became more and more phobic, and Jack, being conservative, worried about putting me back on medications. I went from taking the subway to work without thinking to having to drive and park in a lot close to work. I'd be driving on West End Avenue in horrible traffic, with just surge after surge of adrenaline. And when it peaks, you say, 'Oh, now I've done it -- I've gone too far.' It felt like being punched in the stomach over and over and over again." After Rachel was born in September 1992, Lippin was put on Zoloft, an antidepressant medication, within days. It was the first time, she says now, that she had received an appropriate medication.
Two years later, despite the stress of her previous pregnancy, Lippin wanted to have another child. She stopped taking Zoloft and "Bam, I was right back." The panic attacks returned, worse than ever. After the birth of her son, Jesse, in October 1995, she once again worked herself back toward normalcy through the combination of Zoloft and cognitive behavioral therapy. "I felt incredibly discouraged and depressed that I was going to have to do this again," she recalled. "I practiced for a year, and I realized that I had to integrate this piece of myself into my life and not hide it. So that was the beginning of the coming out. It was an illness, not a flaw, and nothing to be ashamed of."
Coincidentally, while all this was going on, Gorman and three other colleagues -- Dr. David H. Barlow of Boston University, M. Katherine Shear of the University of Pittsburgh and Dr. Scott Woods of Yale University -- were conducting a large-scale clinical trial comparing the use of drugs to cognitive behavioral therapy for anxiety disorders. The study, which has been presented at scientific meetings, will add fuel to the debate on whether drugs or therapy works best. Using a generation of antidepressant drugs prior to the current S.S.R.I.'s, the study showed that both drugs and cognitive behavioral therapy are effective in treating panic disorder. But the researchers did tease out a potentially significant difference by following patients after they stopped treatment: drugs seemed to have worked quicker, but therapy provided more enduring success.
Gorman says he believes -- and the study Ruth Lippen participated in is designed to investigate -- that the combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and drugs is effective because both influence the fear circuitry mapped out by LeDoux, Davis and others. The drugs probably do this by dampening the activity of the amygdala biochemically. Cognitive behavioral therapy does it, researchers believe, by strengthening memory circuits in the cognitive parts of brain through the repetitive exercises that are this therapy's hallmark -- the cognitive parts being those that know, for example, that there is nothing intrinsically dangerous about the George Washington Bridge. That kind of "knowing" -- a practiced memory of what is rational -- allows the reasoning brain to override the amygdala.
Like many people who have struggled with anxiety disorders, Ruth Lippin has often found herself wondering what her life might have been like if it hadn't been boxed in by irrational fears. "I ask myself all the time," she says, "what could I have done with my life if I hadn't devoted 75 percent of my energies to these anxieties?" One thing she managed to do, beginning in 1997, was to take classes at White Plains Hospital Center, and now, more than 20 years after she stood terrified in the field in Holland, she has been certified to treat anxiety-disorder patients with "supported-exposure therapy," a form of cognitive behavioral therapy in which the therapist accompanies a patient into the situation that he or she fears.
In her new profession, Ruth treats people who are afraid of being alone, afraid of driving in traffic, afraid of flying, afraid of being in elevators, afraid of wide open spaces, afraid of malls, theaters, museums. They are claustrophobic, hypochondriacal and phobic about social situations. The sheer range and catalogue of things that cause fear and anxiety, especially when patently irrational, made me wonder if humans, because of our prodigious imaginative capacities, are the most fearful creatures to walk the face of the earth.
When I mentioned the notion to Jerome Kagan, who has studied fearfulness in children at Harvard University, he practically laughed me out of his office. If you put monkeys on the Champs-elysee, he said, they would be consumed with fear and go crazy. But as everyone from Stephen King to R. L. Stine to the designers of those rides at Six Flags seems to know, imagination can tickle the amygdala and stir up an awful lot of anxiety, in ways we couldn't scientifically appreciate even a year ago.
"Certainly animals have more instinctual fear than humans do," Gorman told me. "On the other hand, I don't think animals have the capacity to worry about so many things and to be concerned that so many things in the future could happen. And I think that does make us, probably in that sort of intellectual way, more fearful."
As the spotlight of fear studies moves from rats and rabbits to humans, the most recent results from the animal lab may be telling us that fear has a very long shelf life in the cells where its memory is warehoused. In one of the most recent results from their laboratory, Joseph LeDoux, Greg Quirk and Chris Repa experimentally created anxiety in rats and then electronically eavesdropped on single brain cells in the animals' amygdalas. Once certain cells have been coupled by the perception of dangerous circumstances, they discovered, these cells continue to fire in unison, even after the animal has abandoned the behavior rooted in fear.
Fear, in other words, has soldered the circuitry of these rats into a permanent state, just waiting for the right circumstances to trigger the effect again. "The party line," as LeDoux likes to say, "is that fear is forever."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Matt Mahurin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA-PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA-PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; FEAR; ANXIETY; PHOBIAS; OBSESSIVE-COMPULSIVE DISORDER; POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER; RESEARCH; BRAIN MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); PHOBIAS (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (89%); BRAIN (77%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (61%); 

PERSON: HALL, STEPHEN S MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



607 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Fliers' Awards: Some New Math

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
A FEW big new developments make this a good time to look again at some of the loyalty programs in the world of travel. Perhaps I should have looked sooner; the report on my United Mileage Plus program for December noted that 4,842 miles had expired with the old year. People who scatter their travel among airlines and hotels based on convenience and price often suffer these setbacks. But some new programs involve miles or points that are evergreen or permit earning miles for one line while flying another. These may get us bits-and-pieces people back into the game. 

Hotel Entry
A major new frequent guest program was announced by Starwood Hotels and Resorts. If Starwood is not a household word, this is because it is a real estate investment trust, with headquarters in White Plains and with no hotel bearing its own name. It owns Sheraton and Westin and other midpriced and upscale hotels and resorts: Four Points, Caesars and W hotels, as well as the Luxury Collection, which includes the St. Regis brand. Starwood is now promoting, reshuffling and renaming many of the 650 hotels it has recently acquired.
Barry Sternlicht, chairman of Starwood, said the Preferred Guest program was designed to be easy to understand. Points are awarded for all money spent in participating properties -- 550 of the 650. (The program excludes some properties the trust has taken over bearing other brand names -- Marriott, for example -- that have competing programs.)
New members get two points for every dollar spent. After 10 stays in a year, the member gets three points for every dollar. And it goes up from there.
Points do not expire with age if the member stays in a participating hotel once a year. There are no blackout dates and no capacity controls, Mr. Sternlicht said: a hotel will give its last available room to someone using points.
The Starwood program is not for budget travelers. Hoyt H. Harper, the company's vice president for marketing programs, said that a weekend hotel night at the "mid scale" Four Points in Fort Walton Beach, Fla., would require 2,000 points; during the week, 3,000. On the high end, the Princeville Hotel on Kauai, Hawaii, would cost 10,000 points a night, weekday or weekend.
The program has links to 21 airlines. Points transfer at one point to one mile on Air France, Air New Zealand, Alaska Airlines, Alitalia, American, America West, Ansett Australia, Asiana, Canadian, Cathay Pacific, Continental, Delta, Eva Air, Japan Airlines, K.L.M., Northwest, Qantas, Saudi Arabian, Thai Airways, United and US Airways.
Those who reserve at any hotel in the program can ask to sign up when the reservation is made. Information is also available on the Web site: www.preferredguest.com.
 
Airlines' Link
On Feb. 1, five airlines linked their marketing programs: American, British Airways, Canadian, Cathay Pacific and Qantas Airways. Travelers flying on most flights on any of these airlines can earn points through the program, called One World, on any other line, and can also redeem points interchangeably.
Because of variations in names for elite levels of the lines' programs, One World is establishing its own categories, emerald, sapphire and ruby, which will be indicated on the cards. This will enable employees to know what privileges a member of another line's plan is entitled to. The cards will be jointly marked for the particular airline program and One World.
There is one catch: direct trans-Atlantic flights on British Airways and American Airlines are not interchangeable for accruing points or spending them. These two lines have been pressing regulators for a separate, closer alliance; meantime, a spokesman said, they are prevented by Government rules from exchanging mileage across the Atlantic.
The pooling of frequent flier awards was pioneered by the Star Alliance, set up in 1997 by United, Lufthansa, Air Canada, Scandinavian and Thai Airways.
The individual airlines maintain their separate rules on mileage expiration and the like.
Other two-way alliances have been set up, with varying rules. Northwest and Continental linked their programs last year, and as of March 1, miles from one line may be used to get a ticket on the other, although they cannot be pooled. Meantime, both airlines have turned back the clock a little, offering round-trip domestic tickets for 20,000 miles in the low season, September to May, instead of the 25,000 miles needed in summer.
US Airways, in January, also set up a 20,000-mile award for travel within the United States and Canada in the low season, in this case between Sept. 15 and the end of February. The line added two hitches at the same time: Saturday-night stays will be required for domestic or Canadian trips on reservations made after March 31 and on trips after Sept. 15. Starting in January 2000, the Dividend Miles will expire within three calendar years if the member does not fly on US Airways in that period. Miles earned before then will not expire.
Will the increase in alliances and the lowering of some mileage levels make the pressure for reward seats worse than it already is? Randy Petersen, editor of the magazine Inside Flyer, says redemptions were up 20 percent last year, the biggest increase on record: Nothing above a 9 percent rise had been seen before, he said.
Mr. Petersen said the growth was probably related more to the booming economy than to increasing friendliness on the part of the airlines. In 1999, he sees a moderate rise in difficulty in getting certain award trips.
"For some trips, there will never be enough seats," he said. "Tel Aviv is the toughest of all. Call at two minutes past midnight a year in advance, and the seats went to people who called at one minute past."
 
From American Express
The American Express Membership Rewards program, formerly Membership Miles, added some new partners this month, mostly stores. Points may be exchanged for purchases or gift certificates at Borders Books, Avis Rent a Car, Cathay Pacific Airways, Samsonite stores, the Sharper Image and Foot Locker, among others.
The airlines where American Express Membership Rewards points may be used to obtain tickets, or to "top off" a balance too small for a ticket or an upgrade, are Delta, US Airways, Continental, Southwest, T.W.A., Hawaiian, Virgin Atlantic, Cathay Pacific, Korean Air, Aeromexico, El Al, Sabena and Mexicana.
The core of Membership Rewards is the double dip: If you charge an airline ticket on the American Express card, you get the reward points and also the miles when you fly the trip. These points do not expire, but the downside comes if you fail to pay your American Express bill on time: your Membership Rewards points are docked for that month. However, a phone call to (800) 297-3276 and a payment of $15 will restore a month's lost points.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Claudia Newell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (73%); HOT (NYSE) (56%); AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); AIZ (ASX) (51%); AIR (NZX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (67%); AUSTRALIA (51%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (73%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (67%); AUSTRALIA (51%); HAWAII, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIRLINES (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESORTS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); BRANDING (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



608 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 2.28.99 -- On Language;
New Paving for The Middle of the Road

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
A specter is stalking world politics, as Karl Marx might have manifested it -- the specter of the third way.
"The third way is part of the politics of the center and center left," said Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, last month. "In Britain, it means New Labor." He defined his third way as a place where "economic dynamism and social justice can live together." 
 "European Governments spend and tax heavily," noted Laura D'Andrea Tyson, former chairman of the Clinton Council of Economic Advisers, "but the architects of the new Europe see them as a human third way between old-style socialism and the supposed divisive social consequences of the American way."
Her former boss saw the way more benignly. In Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, he said, "I thought we ought to have a third way," and in his 1998 State of the Union declared, "We have found a third way." Last month, he told the Economic Club of Detroit: "We are working with business to use technology, research and market incentives to meet national goals. Some have called this political philosophy 'the third way."'
Those "some" can also be found in Moscow. "Former Deputy Prime Ministers Anatoly Chubais and Boris Nemtsov accused Moscow Mayor and born-again centrist Yuri Luzhkov of 'economic illiteracy,"' wrote Harry Kopp of the Jamestown Foundation's Monitor. "Luzhkov, who recently returned from Tony Blair's Britain, said Russia must choose 'a third way between total socialism and vulgar liberalism."'
Where there's a way, there's a will; in this case, Will Marshall, head of Washington's Progressive Policy Institute, who says that Mr. and Mrs. Clinton "think a third way approach to governing is his legacy."
Of course, left and right take their pops at it. Liberals see self-contradictions in such a "slippery center." "The Third Way assumes a basic political symmetry," wrote Jonathan Chait in The New Republic, "an unreconstructed left, a radical right and a Third Way nestled in between." But this is self-defeating: "When the Third Way takes power, it alters that equation and no longer sits between the two poles of the political spectrum; it is the left pole. The calculus has changed, and, in order to retain the center, the Third Way must shift right again."
The Republican Lamar Alexander, of the Campaign for a New American Century (its onset is getting ever more likely), slams the way from the right. "The third way is no way," he claims. "Supposedly, this is an alternative to free-market capitalism, on the one hand, and socialism on the other. When you peel the layers off this particular onion, however, what you get is 'social democracy' -- the ever-expanding, cradle-to-grave welfare-state programs that hobble most European countries."
Where did the latest moniker for the middle of the road come from? You can find the phrase in theology (between the second and fourth ways of St. Thomas Aquinas) and among the ways of phenomenology. In politics, the historian H.A.L. Fisher traced it to the French emperor Napoleon III, who steered between internal revolution and foreign war to choose a third way of liberalism. In the United States, early centrists working toward a third party between Federalists and Republicans were called Quiddists, from the Latin tertium quid, or "third thing."
 
Hotspur!
"He must find a way out among moderate Republicans and Democrats," the Times editorialist wrote of the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, "even if Republican hotspurs object."
Every dictionary worth its spurs notes that the word hotspur was the sobriquet of Sir Henry Percy, son of the Earl of Northumberland, killed in 1403 in the rebellion against Henry IV. (A sobriquet is a descriptive appellation, like Gov. Jesse the Body Ventura, which geezers will fondly recall followed, by two generations, Marie the Body McDonald.) The earliest citation of hotspur was in a chronicle a half-century later: "Herry Percy the yonger, whom the Scottis clepid Herry Hatspore." Shakespeare then used the word in his "Henry IV": "A haire-brained Hotspurre, gouern'd by a Spleene."
Tangent time: those citations show us (1) that Henry led to Harry by way of Herry, or Herry was the progenitor of both, and (2) that the Shakespearean spelling of haire-brained is a source of the confusion about that word's meaning. It has nothing to do with hair found on the scalp on top of the skull that encases the brain. Rather, it is a hare, or rabbit, which was thought to have an especially small or weak brain. End of tangent.
But what is the metaphoric basis of hotspur? Why not coldspur or hotsaddle (as in the discomforting title of the Mel Brooks movie "Blazing Saddles")? When an equestrian rides impetuously or cruelly, spurring his horse constantly, the spurs are seen to become hot from the friction -- if not literally, at least figuratively. That's what harebrained Henry (not haire-brained Herry) did, and why they clepid, or yclept, or named him that. And that is also why profoundly literate editorialists still use hotspur to mean "a rash, impetuous, hard-driving person." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (78%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



609 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 21; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 2.28.99 -- The Economics of Cigarettes;
Smoke One for the Tax Man

BYLINE: By Andy Newman 

 BODY:
Less than three months after tobacco companies raised the price of cigarettes by 45 cents a pack (to pay for their $206 billion settlement with the states), President Clinton has proposed an additional 55-cent levy. That could push the price of cigarettes to $4 or more in many parts of the country.
These Federal taxes are designed in part to discourage smoking, but the Government may have become just as dependent on tobacco as many smokers are. In New York City, where a pack of Marlboros can cost as much as $3.50 (depending on the retailer), Federal, state and city taxes account for $1.20. By way of comparison, the shocking sum of $883 million that states' lawyers will earn this year from tobacco settlements adds up to only 4 cents a pack. For its part, according to David Adelman, an industry analyst, Philip Morris pockets 28 cents a pack, after taxes, on Marlboros. 
 Despite all these added charges and legal hassles, of course, tobacco remains an extraordinarily profitable business. Which doesn't stop industry leaders from depicting themselves as victims -- along with the helpless consumers -- of the Government's taxation habits. Andy Newman
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by David Lawrence for The New York Times)
 
Chart: $.41: Payment to state governments as reimbursment for treatment of smoking-related illnesses.
 
$.09: Legal fees: 4 cents goes to the states' lawyers, a nickel to Philip Morris's.
 
$.03: Cash outlay to tobacco farmers, which, depending on whom you believe, either buys their political loyalty or safeguards them against fluctuations in demand.
 
$.28: Profits for Philip Morris, after taxes.
 
$1.20: Taxes. The Feds take 43 cents (19 cents in income tax, 24 cents sin tax). New York State and City tack on another 77 cents. Alaska and Hawaii, where not much tobacco grows, have the highest cigarette taxes, adding a buck per pack. The tobacco-rich state of Virginia takes only 2 1/2 cents.
 
$.16: Cost of cigarette production, including tobacco, which amounts to 8 cents a pack (or 2/5 of a cent per cigarette).
 
$.17: Advertising and special merchandise.
 
$.38: Givebacks to retailers (and occasionally customers). Wonder why the local deli is plastered with Marlboro logos? Philip Morris pays for in-store ads, prime shelf space, display hardware, sales bonuses, discount coupons and reimbursement to retailers for ads they place in local papers.
 
$.57: Retailer markup, which varies widely.
 
$.21: Distribution, including various middleman fees like wholesaling and warehousing.
 
$3.50: For a pack of Marlboros bought in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SMOKING (91%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LAWYERS (74%); RETAILERS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



610 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 2.28.99;
What They Were Thinking

 BODY:

Caitlin Marcoux, Econo Lodge, Arlington, Va.
"Josh and I had been casually dating up till that point; the night before he took the picture we fell in love. When I woke up, all I had was the clothes I had the night before, no toothbrush, no makeup, so it was not my idea of a conventionally pretty moment. I felt really small on that huge bed and that bedspread saturated with surreal color you wouldn't want in your own house. I wondered what Josh could see through the wide-angle lens. He was examining me, and I was examining myself. I was excited about starting a relationship, but terrified that he was going to see right into me. There's not a whole lot of hiding when someone is looking so intently at you."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Joshua Lutz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

PERSON: MARCOUX, CAITLIN; LUTZ, JOSHUA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



611 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 45; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2301 words

HEADLINE: ART / ARCHITECTURE;
Dear Friends of Ray, and Audiences of One

 BODY:
RAY JOHNSON perpetrated art that made its recipients work. For 40 years, with the collaboration of the Post Office, he mailed out drawn, collaged and, in later years, photocopied confections concocted from visual puns, Pop Art references, the lives of friends, chance happenings and weird news items. Something was asked of those who encountered his deadpan performances or received his quixotic letters: to focus for a moment, to add something, to decipher the code, to pass it on. The workings of the New York Correspondence School, as his mailings came to be called, were well known to art-world insiders and, after his 1970 "Ray Johnson New York Correspondence School" exhibition at the Whitney Museum, to a somewhat wider public. But the extent of his subversive, hilariously conceived, intricately executed collages have only begun to become evident with "Ray Johnson: Correspondences." organized by Donna De Salvo for the Wexner Center for the Arts and on view at the Whitney Museum, through March 21.
The exhibition has brought to Johnson a recognition that eluded him in the life that ended on Jan. 13, 1995, when, at the age of 67, he dived from a Sag Harbor, N.Y., bridge and died, a probable suicide. Two girls noticed, called the police, got no answer and went to the movies. It was the sort of macabre detail that Johnson compiled and transformed in his art. His friends believe his death was his final performance. 
 Following are remembrances by people who knew Johnson, gathered by Amei Wallach, who begins by offering one of her own.
 
 AMEI WALLACH, art critic.
Ray Johnson was mugged about the same time Robert Kennedy was assassinated and Andy Warhol was shot. Soon after that, at age 40, he moved out of New York to Locust Valley, N.Y., where I visited him in 1977, in his gray clapboard house with white shutters. The Volkswagen in the front yard had a Shelley Duvall photograph taped to its side window. By then, Johnson, with his shaved head and lashless blue eyes, looked suspiciously like a character in a comic book. He helpfully supplied the name: "Sluggo in the Nancy comic. Ernie Bushmiller drew the strip." Then he stamped my notebook with an Ernie Bushmiller Fan Club stamp. Also a Shelley Duvall Fan Club stamp. And a Paloma Picasso Fan Club stamp.
I never did get upstairs, but just about all that was in the front room was an enormous, loving-hands-at-home work table and new work propped against walls badly in need of paint. On the Masonite floor was a decrepit Oriental rug dominated by an enormous gray paint spot that, Johnson said, had been spilled "by the ghost of Janis Joplin." The back room was stacked precariously with cardboard boxes, hoards of Scotch tape, cans of Lucite wall paint, bottles of Elmer's glue and a four-foot-high tower of New York telephone books. "It took days to organize it," Johnson told me. He hadn't bothered with the kitchen, where newspapers clogged the doorway and half-empty Camel cigarette packs obliterated the counter.
At that point in the mid-1970's, Johnson had taken a hint from the 16th-century Italian painter Arcimboldo and was making punned, doodled, painted and collaged portraits that began with silhouettes he would draw of friends and strangers. He made some of me. "They're like a fly in the face, not flattering, nor are they insulting," he said. "I've managed at this point to combine the tragic with the comic, the ridiculous with the sublime."
 
 JAMES ROSENQUIST, artist.
I was introduced to Bob Rauschenberg through Ray in 1956, and later I met Lenore Tawney and Agnes Martin through Ray. The first time I visited Joseph Cornell, there was Andy Warhol and Ray and Bob Indiana.
Then Ray moved to Locust Valley. He sent me things in the mail to send on to other people, and when they were really beautiful I'd keep them. Usually they were funny, bizarre, very mysterious, beautiful things -- collages. Once he sent me an image of Bill de Kooning's bicycle seat. And he'd say, "Finish this portrait." So I'd finish it, and send it on. Things like that I thought I could understand, it was ironic and deep and funny. It was also a very delicate vision. Ray's work has a different kind of feeling than, say, Roy Lichtenstein's or Andy Warhol's or mine. It was a much more personal, private experience, a discovery kind of thing, not smack dab in your face. He would say, "This weekend I walked to all the mailboxes in Brooklyn." He had probably put things in them. He would do that, it seemed to me, a little bit like Zen: if you think you know something, you realize you don't know it; then, when you realize you don't know anything, something pops into your head and your mind learns something. I miss Ray, because whenever I find something that is really bizarre, I don't have anyone to send it to.
 
BILL WILSON, retired professor of English literature who has written extensively on Johnson.
Very few people can accept that Ray killed himself, but he was planning that when I met him in 1956. Ray lived on behalf of religio-philosophic meanings, and he died on behalf of those meanings. He called me from Orient Point at 4 o'clock the day he died -- collect, so the phone call is recorded on my phone bill. He meant his death by drowning as a mailing event. When he sent works of art through the mail to people as gifts, he was describing what he thought were the correct relations among people.
Mail art meant that art should be free. He was able to live without money for his needs, because he thought most needs would be false. When he wrote to Joan Crawford, he was giving her the chance to reply to him as a person. In the art world, fame and money distorted all those relations. I was with him in 1958 when Leo Castelli said, "When are you going to let me show your collages?" and Ray turned on his heel. One by one, as the artists he knew became rich and famous, Ray satirized them or tweaked them. But some of the artists, like Jim Rosenquist, were able to continue like an all-American boy to communicate with Ray. An envelope from Ray was like a haiku, a moment of immediacy and indeterminancy, a particularly vivid moment outside the economy, outside the machinery of our culture. It was free.
 
 ANDREW HOYEM, poet and publisher, Arion Press.
I was in Texas with the United States Navy; it could have been in 1958 or '59. I had helped with the publication of a book by Paul Reps, a Zen practitioner, who called his books picture poems. My name was in the back of the book with an address, China Lake, California, and the address seemed to charm Ray. He began sending me odd things in the mail. Then I noticed his design on a paperback book of poems by Rimbaud, and that opened a flood of correspondence.
One time he sent me a cardboard box wrapped with twine, and there was sealing tape around it, and I opened it in my office and out poured these carpet sweepings. Later I got involved in a small publishing company, and we had an idea we would publish his work. The book never happened. Ray could be very coy, and it took me a long time to understand that the talking about it, the sending things back and forth, was the thing. There was a literary bent to Ray Johnson, his use of words, his deep involvement in twists and turns of language, and his punning.
 
CHRISTO AND JEANNE-CLAUDE, artists.
Jeanne-Claude: We were living in Paris in 1962 and Sidney Janis did an exhibition called "New Realists" and invited Christo to show two works. Then we receive a letter from a Mr. Ray Johnson, whom we don't know, saying, "I have seen your package at the Sidney Janis Gallery and I would really like to buy one." So Christo made a package, he took a photograph of the package, then he reopened the package and put the photo inside with a note saying: "You said you wanted a package. I sent you one. You destroyed it, and so I send you a photograph. Keep it as a souvenir."
Christo: My letter was written in English or French, I forget, and he incorporated it in some collage that was sold to a collector.
Jeanne-Claude: When we arrived in New York in 1964, we started inviting people to our room at the Chelsea Hotel, and he was one of the very first phone calls we made. I told him, "We'll have dinner together, but I have to warn you we might not have enough forks; we might have to eat the chicken with our fingers." And the day he was supposed to come, a small, long, narrow package arrived and inside were four forks and a note that said, "Fear Four Forks." Then one day Ray was doing a piece about toys, and he asked me what was my favorite toy when I was a little girl, and I answered, I liked to climb trees. He took an empty bottle of Bordeaux wine and put a sticker on it, and he wrote "Trees" and a little doodle.
 
JOHN WILLENBACHER, artist.
I think the Christos and Ray were made for each other. Both of their art is generous in that they reach out to people. Ray was always illustrating the lives of people he would meet. There was a gallery girl at the Feigen Gallery, where I showed in the 60's -- Ray was showing at Willard. And Ray was asking people to send bows to her at the gallery, because not only did she wear big black bows in her beehive hairdo, which fascinated Ray, but she also had a live-in lover, which was unusual in those days. So this was Ray Johnson's version of her beau.
One of the things I liked about Ray, he was a real scamp. He sent me a reproduction of a photograph of a horse, and he put little names all around the horse's anatomy with little arrows. Robert Indiana got the ass. I was friends with Robert Indiana in those days. But I didn't go to many Correspondence School meetings. A lot of them were very boring. They were like cocktail parties without drinks.
 
CHUCK CLOSE, artist.
I have rather strong feelings about the way Ray has been dealt with as a willing outsider. He was an unwilling outsider; he wanted to be an insider desperately. Ray was an artist's artist, and he had many friends and fans who tried for years to interest curators, museums and writers in his work. You don't want death to become a great career move, and dying and becoming famous is one of the worst artist cliches, and basically it doesn't happen. In Ray's case, since his suicide he has become far more interesting to the art-world establishment. Without it, would he be getting all this attention?
We used to talk usually every week. When I told him I was doing an Artist's Choice show at the Modern "Chuck Close: Head-On/The Modern Portrait," 1991 , which consisted of portraits by artists in the museum's collection, he was devastated, because he didn't have a portrait in the collection.
So, the first thing he thought about was would the museum buy something? Not likely. Then: what if he got a collector to give something? But the wheels of an institution like the Modern grind very slowly. So Ray, in his perversely subversive way, knew that Clive Philpot, the librarian at the Modern, never threw anything away. And if Ray began to correspond with him, this guy would compulsively log everything in and put it in boxes, which would circumvent the problems of getting into the collection. And Ray would get in through the back door.
So I call up Clive and say: I understand you have some Ray Johnson. So I selected a black-and-white Xerox of a bunny-head drawing, supposedly a portrait of Bill de Kooning but, of course, all the bunnies look exactly alike. I wanted to pick one that stood for Ray's correspondence because it was as correspondence that it got into the museum. It didn't have all the elegance and likableness and the craft that go into Ray's work, because that's not how it got into the Modern. I wanted it to stand out for its difference.
So I selected this 8-by-10-inch Xerox that cost maybe two cents to make and prominently put it into the exhibition next to extraordinarily expensive pictures by van Gogh and Picasso. It was a great triumph for him, and I think the people at the Modern got a kick out of it too.
 
ARTHUR DANTO, philosopher, critic.
I think he was the arch-insider, to tell you the truth. He was so involved with so many people who defined an art world at that time. What I think has to be brought out: there is genuinely a gay esthetic in that operation, the fanlike attitude toward movie stars, the prizing of camp sensibilities, and I think he was very widely connected with a lot of people who knew the answers and could see his references and illusions. The Correspondence School was a tremendous breakthrough. It enabled him to make art of the kind he wanted for the people he wanted.
 
FRANCES BEATTY,vice president of Richard Feigen & Co.
I met Ray probably 20 years ago, when I was I doing my Ph.D. on Surrealist imagery, so you can imagine how interested I was in him. I lived in this little apartment, and on the wall I had 200 postcards of art from the 19th and 20th century and the Renaissance that I was using to study for my orals.
Ray walked in one night and he named practically every one of them; you knew this was a man who had absorbed all of art history. I joined the Feigen Gallery in 1980, and Richard and I tried for 17 years to do a Ray Johnson show. Ray was totally ambivalent. In the mid-1980's he said, "I've got it, Frances, we'll have," pause, "Nothing in the show." He wanted to be famous, but he realized if he ever was famous, it would be the end of his activity as an artist.
He called me about five days before he died, and he said: "You know, Frances, I think I'm finished doing this Nothing I'm involved in. I'm going to do Something, and you're going to be able to do the show." And he laughed this sweet Ray laugh, and then he jumped off the bridge. It was a complete performance.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Detail of "Christo Two," 1967, by Ray Johnson. (Photograph by Andre Grossmann/Collection of Christo and Jeanne-Claude, New York)(pg. 46); Ray Johnson's eclectic art includes, top left, "Trees," made from an empty wine bottle for Jeanne-Claude in the mid-60's; above, "Untitled (Dear Marcia Tucker)," 1970, in honor of correspondence with the curator who organized Johnson's first museum exhibition; left, "Untitled: F. X. Profumo," the center part of which was made in the 1950's and the drawing with photocopy on the left added in the late 70's; and, far left, "Ducham," a play on the name Duchamp, 1977. (Photographs by Andre Grossman/Collection of Christo and Jeanne-Claude, New York (far left and below left); Estate of Ray Johnson (above); Collection of Frances Beatty and Allen Adler (below)); Ray Johnson was his own subject in "Untitled (Ice)," 1994. (Estate of Ray Johnson)(pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (53%); VW (SWX) (53%); VOW (FRA) (53%); VOA (PAR) (53%); VKW (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) VOLKSWAGEN AG (53%); INTERNATIONAL ARTISTS NETWORK (83%); INTERNATIONAL ARTISTS NETWORK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) INTERNATIONAL ARTISTS NETWORK (83%); INTERNATIONAL ARTISTS NETWORK (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); 

PERSON: WALLACH, AMEI; JOHNSON, RAY (D1995) RAY D JOHNSON JR (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



612 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Small in San Diego's Little Italy Enclave

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRASS 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
JONATHAN SEGAL, an architect turned developer, says he builds "affordable urban boxes." In the last eight years, when few others were building downtown, Mr. Segal completed seven of his small loft and row-house developments.
Mr. Segal's designs typically call for two-to three-story stucco buildings, with compact living spaces, 18-foot ceilings, tall windows and "garden" patios. "I'm not designing for families," said the 36-year-old Mr. Segal. "I'm designing for hip, urban singles."
He is one of a small group of architects building creative infill projects targeting younger residents who until recently couldn't afford to live in downtown San Diego.
Mr. Segal's most recently completed project is Kettner Row, 16 row houses in Little Italy, a 50-block neighborhood of warehouses, offices and small restaurants on San Diego Harbor. Called "convertible housing," the project is designed to allow the owner to use the street level space as an office or studio.
The houses, with 1,280 to 1,800 square feet of space, sold as soon as they were finished in 1998 for prices ranging from $190,000 to $265,000. The residents, mostly 25 to 40 years old, include a lawyer, a real estate agent and an artist.
Scott Woods, a 38-year-old hotel consultant, rents one of the row houses for $1,400 a month. Tired of commuting, he moved downtown from the suburbs three years ago.
"I have one wall that's all glass," Mr. Woods said. "I didn't expect to find something like this in the middle of the city."
The redevelopment of Little Italy is an experiment for the city's redevelopment agency, the Centre City Development Corporation. It was the first time the agency had actively sought more than one developer for a large parcel. It approved a plan calling for seven architects to design six separate housing projects in a little more than one block.
However, with vacancy rates soaring and the area in a general recession in the mid-90's the agency couldn't find builders able to finance large projects downtown.
"We wanted to hit home runs during the recession with big projects, and it just wasn't going to happen," said Peter Q. Davis, chairman of the agency's board. "So we had to go for singles."
"Conventional wisdom," said Michael Stepner, a longtime city planner who is now dean of the New School of Architecture here, explaining the redevelopment agency's yearning to tackle big projects, "was that the only way to get something done was to take over an entire block and find one developer."
To help spur the development of Little Italy, the agency offered developers discounts on city-owned land and it financed off-site improvements, including sidewalks.
Some local residents initially criticized the modern designs for not addressing the heritage of Little Italy, a community where Italian immigrants first settled at the turn of the century. But the architects argued that the area's roots were more closely linked to the fishing fleet, which was once based at the foot of the neighborhood.
"The last place I wanted to look for inspiration was Rome," said Ted Smith, one of the architects. "I think the history of the area was smaller buildings oriented to the waterfront."
Mr. Smith and his partner, Lloyd Russell, designed the Merrimac Building, a three-story work-living loft project on a 5,000-square-foot lot around the corner from Kettner Row. It also features a sharp box style, narrow spaces and tall windows.
Lofts of about 1,100 square feet in the Merrimac rent for $700 to $800 a month.
"They rented as soon as we put the sign out," Mr. Smith said. "We could have built 50 and they would have rented."
The tenants are primarily artists, architects and graphic designers who, like Mr. Smith, live and work in the building.
"Our interest as architects is to make spaces that are fun," Mr. Smith said, "things that typically the market doesn't pay for."
BOTH Kettner Row and the Merrimac have won state and national design awards and praise from fellow architects. In 1998 an American Institute of Architects awards jury praised the new downtown residential developments as "bold" and "energetic."
"These designs are quite innovative," said Steven Ehrlich, a member of the jury panel and the principal in a Los Angeles architectural firm that bears his name. "San Diego is on the cutting edge of multifamily residential urban design."
The projects and others like them provide evidence that "you can build to lower densities than is the practice and still make money," said Rob Wellington Quigley, an architect who has worked on several downtown projects. After several "grim" years, downtown is "coming alive," he added.
Industry analysts say downtown is in the midst of a renaissance. With no large projects built in the last five years, the average resale price of condominiums downtown went from $248,000 to $401,000, according to Market Profiles of San Diego, a research firm.
Development of the Gaslamp Quarter, with nightclubs and restaurants, helped bring new vibrancy to downtown's nightlife. A trolley system that began in 1981 links downtown to outlying areas, including the United States-Mexico border.
The city has done "an extraordinary job" redeveloping its downtown, "particularly because they saw downtown as part of a regional complex," said Peter Calthorpe, an architect based in northern California who is a frequent lecturer on urban design issues.
In 1997 the first large supermarket opened downtown and last November voters approved a new hotel and baseball stadium complex for the southeastern corner of downtown. It will be home for the San Diego Padres.
"The decision to live downtown is much easier today than it was even five years ago," said Peter Reeb, a real estate analyst.
Real estate analysts talk about a phenomenon similar to "a switch being flipped" downtown, in terms of builder interest in developing residential units. In five years, the price of land in Little Italy has jumped from $25 to $75 a square foot, Mr. Smith said.
Mr. Segal has four downtown projects either under construction or approved by the city. One calls for one of the city's oldest taverns, the Waterfront bar in Little Italy, to be incorporated into a loft project.
All of Mr. Segal's new projects -- except for a three-unit development that will include his own residence -- are designed to rent. The vacancy rate for downtown rental units 2.3 percent, according to the San Diego County Apartment Association.
"The time's right for rentals; all the moons are aligned," Mr. Segal said.
Mr. Davis of the redevelopment agency said downtown was entering a new era in residential development.
"In the first 22 years of redevelopment we did 4,000 residential units, and we'll probably do 4,000 in the next five years," Mr. Davis said.
His agency is now reverting to its old strategy, once again looking for developers willing to take over an entire block.
"Now there seems to be a ton of developers willing to take on a full block," Mr. Davis said. "Right now we're filling up a lot of residential needs and we're doing it with larger projects."
Last year, his agency put out a request for proposals to redevelop 12 sites in the waterfront Marina District, the southwest corner of downtown near the San Diego Convention Center. A few years ago such a an announcement would have attracted little attention. This year more than 30 proposals were received.
Eventually, the redevelopment agency chose eight commercial and residential plans including several covering entire blocks. The projects, which are expected to be completed over the next three years, will add 1,157 apartments and for-sale units to the existing 7,900 units downtown, according to Market Profiles of San Diego.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Segal at Kettner Row project, above, which he designed and built. Mr. Segal, rear, with tenant Scott Woods in rental row house. (Photo-graphs by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)
 
Map of dowtown San Diego, highlighting Kettner Row.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); SUBURBS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); APPROVALS (62%); 

PERSON: BRASS, KEVIN; SEGAL, JONATHAN ROBERT G DAVIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



613 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
For Hauppauge, a 408,000-Sq.-Ft. Office Complex

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
A 408,000-SQUARE-FOOT office complex now awaiting final approvals -- Long Island's largest new office project in almost a decade -- could start construction as early as the spring.
Its 19.6-acre site is in the Smithtown side of Hauppauge at the intersection of the Vanderbilt Motor Parkway and Moreland Road at Exit 53 of the Long Island Expressway. 
 "This building will create a critical mass that doesn't exist right now on Long Island," said Bob J. Coughlan, the co-managing partner with his brother, Jim, of the Tritec Real Estate Company of East Setauket, the developer of the new building.
Other large office buildings are under construction. They include a 100,000-square-foot building under way at the Greenway Plaza Office Park in Melville and a 100,000-square-foot building rising in Woodbury at the Gateway Office Park. But a building has to be at least 150,000 square feet in size to justify the "infrastructure we are developing," said Bob Coughlan.
Tritec -- whose other principals are the Coughlans' father, Bob T., and another brother, Dan -- is also the developer of the million-square-foot Stony Brook Technology Center in East Setauket, which is about three-quarters completed.
One of Tritec's operating units, Tritec Capital, will arrange the financing for the $65-million Hauppauge project, which will be called 100 Motor Parkway.
Real estate brokers agree that the infusion of that large amount of space comes at an opportune time because vacancy rates in prime office buildings in Nassau County and most areas of Suffolk County have fallen to single-digit levels.
The vacancy rate for prime space in Nassau, including sublet space, was 4.95 percent at the end of January, according to the Commercial Industrial Brokers Society of Long Island in Syosset. Working with the CoStar/Realty Information Group, a data-base and statistical services company in Bethesda, Md., the society conducts monthly surveys of the Long Island market.
In Suffolk County, however, vacancies in first-class buildings rose from 7 percent at the end of December to 11.8 percent in January. The increase resulted from changes in the Melville market where, for example, the merger of Astoria Federal Savings and Loan Association and the Long Island Savings Bank freed up 220,000 square feet of space.
"However, that's more of an aberration and not indicative of the marketplace," said David Pennetta, the president of the Brokers Society who is also the executive director of Oxford & Simpson, a commercial brokerage in Jericho.
In fact, without large blocks of space coming on the market "we could be in real trouble," said Theodore P. Sasso, senior managing director at the Syosset office of Insignia/ESG.
"Long Island has not as yet lost a large tenant because we were unable to accommodate them," he said. "But we need new space to open up the boundaries."
Insignia/ESG, an international commercial brokerage, is the leasing agent for 100 Motor Parkway, which could open for occupancy by the summer of 2000 depending on when final approvals are obtained.
THE building will become the gateway to the Hauppauge office corridor, and its arrival could encourage development of additional prime office space along Vanderbilt Motor Parkway, said Frank DeRubeis, Smithtown's planning director. As many as 25 acres, now underutilized, could be redeveloped for offices along the thoroughfare in line with Smithtown's master plan, he said.
In 1988, Evans Development of New York City had started construction of what was to have been the 350,000-square-foot Evans Financial Center on the same 19.6-acre site that 100 Motor Parkway will occupy.
Because of the collapse of the commercial market, the building never progressed beyond its foundation. EAB, a Uniondale bank, which had provided the construction loan, foreclosed on Evans and took over the property in 1990. Tritec is in contract to purchase the site from ABN AMRO Bank, the Dutch parent of EAB.
At one time, EAB proposed subdividing the site and selling off parcels to a fast-food chain among others, Mr. DeRubeis said. "But I have always championed office development there because this site is ideally suited for that," he said.
In recent years, Hauppauge, which straddles both Smithtown and the Town of Islip, has begun rivaling Melville's Route 110 as an office center.
Computer Associates International, which built its headquarters on the Long Island Expressway in Islandia just east of Hauppauge in 1992, led the way in making central Suffolk a headquarters destination. Symbol Technologies followed in 1997, moving to a Holtsville building formerly owned by Northrop Grumman.
"East is no longer east as it was five years ago," said Raymond A. Ruiz, vice president of the Garden City office of CB Richard Ellis, who represents several landlords in the Hauppauge area. One of his clients is Crown Properties, which owns the 67,972-square-foot 1 Suffolk Square at Veterans Memorial Highway and the Expressway in Islandia. Another is Fortunato Development, which is currently adding a 60,000-square-foot building to its 200,000-square-foot Airport Corporate Center in Bohemia.
"There is no longer a sense of moving to Hauppauge to get a better deal," said Mr. Ruiz. "The move is now based on residential trends, which are providing a growing labor pool, and the availability of space."
"You're talking about a dynamic market with a lot of tenant growth," said Davar Rad, the chairman of Crown Properties, which is based in Garden City and has holdings around the country. It purchased 1 Suffolk Square in 1997 and Mr. Rad said vacancies only occur when a tenant needing more space moves out.
"At one time, central Suffolk was considered the end of Long Island for the corporate user, but now its the O.K. place to be for corporate America," said Mr. Pennettaof Oxford & Simpson.
Other prime office buildings in the Hauppauge area include the 123,000-square-foot Hauppauge Office Park on Veterans Memorial Highway and the 172,000-square-foot Islandia Pavilion on Vanderbilt Motor Parkway, both built in 1989. Another is the 191,447-square-foot Hauppauge Corporate Center at 150 Vanderbilt Motor Parkway, which was built in 1984. But 100 Motor Parkway will be by far the largest multitenanted office building so far east.
DESIGNED by Mojo Stumer Associates of Roslyn and the Baldassano Architectural Group of Ronkonkoma, 100 Motor Parkway will have two six-story towers connected by a skylighted concourse level under a landscaped plaza. The building's location will make it highly visible from the Expressway.
The building will offer up-to-date technology from video conferencing to Internet access, said Bob J. Coughlan of Tritex. A visitors' center will provide copiers, facsimile machines and access to the Internet. Diners in the building's cafeteria will be able to plug in their laptops at their tables. Both the cafeteria and health club, among other amenities, will be in the concourse.
The building's exterior will be blue-green tinted glass; the two main entrances will have three-story atriums, and exteriors will take orientation into account. For example, the south facade will have overhangs to keep out the glare of direct sunlight.
Annual rents at 100 Motor Parkway, which is now being marketed, are $25 a square foot plus electricity, said Mr. Sasso of Insignia/ESG.
Rents have reached $30 a square foot at the 1.2 million-square-foot EAB Plaza in Uniondale. At the new Greenway Plaza Office Park building in Melville, the asking rent is $28 a square foot, Mr. Sasso said.
"So not only are we less expensive than some of the other top-end buildings, but we have 400,000 square feet that will be the biggest block of available space when built," he said.
Being a tenant in a building of that size, brokers and developers say, is important to corporations because they like the idea of being able to grow without having to move out of their building for lack of space.
The Motor Parkway building could be built in two phases, but that will depend on how quickly the complex leases up, Mr. Sasso said. Several large companies have already expressed interest, he noted, even though construction has not yet started.
Bob J. Coughlan of Tritec said he felt confident that demand for space would continue to be strong. "The Long Island economy is tremendous now and by every indication it will continue that way," he said.
Economists say the key has been diversification, with Northrop Grumman and other military contractors no longer the main players in the region.
"Growth is slowing down, but we are still growing and I don't see 2000 as a recession year," said Thomas Conoscenti, a specialist in regional economics and public finance analysis with offices in Nesconset.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A skylighted underground concourse, with such amenities as a cafeteria and a health club, is to connect the two buildings of 100 Motor Parkway. (Mojo Stumer Associates/Baldassano Architectural Group)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (NYSE) (85%); CSGP (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (78%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TRITEC REAL ESTATE CO ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (85%); COSTAR GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRITEC REAL ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: HAUPPAUGE (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (78%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA BOB J COUGHLAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



614 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property / Queens;
Long Island City Still Waits for the Back Offices

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
FOR decades, developers have peered across the East River to Long Island City and envisioned a new central business district for the city, with high-rise buildings housing the back-office operations of companies whose headquarters are in expensive Manhattan.
After all, the location is a good one, just a few subway stops away from most locations in midtown. And as manufacturing has inexorably declined in the city, the old factory buildings that occupy much of the area have become available for conversion into offices or for demolition to provide building sites. 
 With the exception of the 50-story Citicorp tower that was erected a decade ago, it has not happened, despite the success of the Metrotech project in downtown Brooklyn, which attracted back-office operations from lower Manhattan.
Some change has come to the area. Big-box stores, such as Home Depot, Toys 'R' Us, Edwards Supermarket and Pergament Home Center, have moved in, many of them taking sites once occupied by industrial and distribution centers. Smaller stores like Old Navy and the Gap have located in the area as well, filling in the spaces between the anchor tenants.
Forest City Ratner Companies is building a 112,000-square-foot, 14-screen Regal cinema, one block off Steinway Street and almost in the shadow of the Kaufman Astoria Studios, where the Marx Brothers and other early stars made their movies in the 1920's and 1930's. Although the location is some distance from the shopping areas on Steinway Street, Bruce Ratner, the chief executive of the company, said he believes the complex's attractions will draw customers from outside the neighborhood.
"The boroughs are so under-movied that it is hard to make a mistake," Mr. Ratner said. "We think people will travel to megaplexes." The movie complex will include stadium-style seating so there are no obstructed views, digital sound and small auditoriums, so films can continue to play there longer than in bigger theaters.
The big-box retailers and the movie theater project represent a successful conversion from industrial to a retail use, said Sanford H. Zuckerbrot, the president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty, a brokerage firm in Long Island City. "We are recycling these locations," he said.
Not all the industrial properties are being converted to other uses, however. Some are serving as havens for industries being displaced from other locations.
Mr. Zuckerbrot said one of the two Swingline factory buildings that were made available when its manufacturing was moved to Mexico last year will be largely leased to printing companies being pushed out of the Hudson Square area of southwestern Manhattan.
"This is an opportunity for a company that's paying $12 to $15 a square foot on the west side of Manhattan to come to Queens and pay $6.50 a square foot" annually, Mr. Zuckerbrot said.
For some this is a natural economic development as property values and rents in Manhattan make it impossible for low-margin businesses to thrive. "The printers can't survive in Manhattan," said Richard Maltz, chairman of Greiner-Maltz, a brokerage and management firm. He said he controls a building on Varick Street, in the heart of the old printing center, and is replacing the printers as their leases expire.
"I can't say to a guy, 'Pay me $20 a foot,' because I know within a year he'll be broke," Mr. Maltz said.
He said that new, high-tech tenants, such as MCI and Sprint, at the old Port Authority warehouse building at 111 Eighth Avenue, at 16th Street, in Manhattan were paying $20 a square foot annually, compared to under $10 a square foot that had been paid by the warehousing and distribution companies they replaced. . "The low-end tenants get squeezed out," he said.
With office rents in Manhattan rising as well, some real estate executives say that Long Island City is the ideal location for lower-cost office space to avoid losing companies caught in a rent squeeze to the projects going up along the New Jersey waterfront. Nobody is putting any shovels in the ground yet, but some argue the pressure is building.
"I'M looking for Long Island City to come to life over the next two to five years," said James S. Meiskin, the president of Plymouth Partners, a tenants' broker. "If that market does not sprout, New York is going to lose a large number of back-office jobs to New Jersey and Connecticut."
He said he knows of companies with back-office operations occupying 4 million square feet that are looking to relocate outside Manhattan. Since effective office rents in the space available in Long Island City are typically under $20 a square foot, companies can make substantial savings by moving less-critical operations out of Manhattan, Mr. Meiskin said.
"I know a financial institution that is trying to move 500,000 square feet of back-office operations," he said. "By doing so, they can save $30 a square foot, which is $15 million a year, $150 million over 10 years."
Some are already making the move, according to Richard Karson, a senior managing director at the Insignia/ESG office in Long Island City. He is marketing the Queens Atrium Corporate Center on Thomson Avenue near Queens Boulevard.
The two-building complex contains 1 million square feet, of which 250,000 square feet have been rented. "We'll do 300,000 square feet this year," said Mr. Karson, who said he had deals for 80,000 square feet and 200,000 square feet pending.
He said most of the tenants and prospects are back-office operations of insurance companies, health care managers and banks. Some communications companies, he said, are considering locating their switching centers there rather than in Manhattan.
He said that the government agencies developing Queens West, a tract of waterfront land facing across the river from the United Nations complex, are seeking developers for what could amount to 2 million square feet of new office space in the area. Currently, only Citylights, a 43-story residential building, has been built at Queens West, although Avalon Bay Communities, a real estate investment trust, has been designated to build the three remaining residential buildings of the first phase of the project.
The city is taking preliminary steps to make the area suitable for commercial development, said Thomas Knierim, executive director of the Long Island City Economic Development Corporation. "There is a substantial rezoning proposal that is in the final stages of preliminary review," he said. Since much of the area is currently zoned for industrial use, the bulk of a building that could be built on a given parcel of land, called the floor-area ratio, or FAR, is limited.
The rezoning would increase that substantially in some locations, he said. "In some places it would go from a FAR of 2 to 5 up to 12," he said.
The new zoning would cover a triangular 36-block area from Queens Plaza on the north to 23d Road on the west and Jackson Avenue to the Sunnyside rail yards to the east. "That area has the potential to be a fourth central business district for the city," he said, after midtown and downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn.
The new zoning, if approved, could permit the building of 10 million to 20 million square feet of new office buildings, Mr. Knierim said.
Some real estate executives say Long Island City will develop slowly, if at all, as an office center because an old factory area lacks the amenities, such as restaurants and shops, that office tenants prefer.
"Long Island City is different from Brooklyn, because Brooklyn has a well-defined downtown while Queens is all spread out," said Barry Rosner, a senior managing director of Williams Real Estate, a services company. "And it lacks amenities. The city would be better off encouraging residential development along the Queens waterfront, where people would have a view of Manhattan and be a five-minute ferry ride away."
Mr. Ratner, whose company developed Metrotech in Brooklyn, said that any developer seeking to build in Long Island City had better be patient and have deep pockets. He said the land in the designated downtown area has many different owners, so site assembly could be a problem without active help from the city. And, he said, environmental and land-use planning studies and approvals could drag on.
"You would probably have to do two or three years of predevelopment work," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanford H. Zuckerbrot, whose brokerage is the leasing agent for the Swingline building in background. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (56%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (82%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); TOYS 'R' US INC (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); MOVIE THEATERS (87%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOME CENTERS (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); THEATER & DRAMA (61%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN SANFORD H ZUCKERBROT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



615 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2563 words

HEADLINE: Is Gulotta Living His Ninth Life?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
HE is Long Island's champion political escape artist, the Houdini of Mineola. But as he struggles with a huge budget deficit, a health insurance scandal and a drumbeat of reported abuses at the county jail, the Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, faces his greatest challenge ever, maybe even a career breaker.
In his 12-year tenure, Mr. Gulotta has survived setbacks and rebounded to score even bigger election triumphs than before. Now some politicians say his luck may be running out. 
 "I think Tom realizes he's living on borrowed time as well as on borrowed money," said one public official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, who has talked with Mr. Gulotta and the chairman of Nassau's Republican Party machine, Joseph N. Mondello.
Mr. Mondello has made little secret of his exasperation at the mounting difficulties and has even revived talk that he might engineer Mr. Gulotta's resignation and, by appointment of the County Legislature, take over the county executive's job himself for awhile to straighten out the mess. No one expects such a drastic step any time soon, however.
Instead, Mr. Mondello is first trying to get top county officials to solve the problems themselves. To that end, earlier this month he summoned Mr. Gulotta, Comptroller Frederick Parola and the County Legislature's presiding officer, Bruce A. Blakeman, to a meeting at party headquarters in Westbury.
Though relations among the four men have been rocky, for now they seem to be trying to harmonize for G.O.P. self-preservation.
Mr. Gulotta has been grappling with the largest deficit in Nassau's history, officially estimated at $160 million to $190 million for 1998. The deficit projection for 1999 is $125 million, which would be the second biggest deficit, and bond-rating agencies have put the county on notice that its credit-worthiness may be downgraded.
Mr. Gulotta is also saddled with a scandal over the transfer of the county's health insurance to Benefit Plan Administrators. The contract was supposed to save up to $15 million, but instead raised the county's costs by as much as $50 million.
The red ink and sloppy supervision of the contract are damaging enough, but it's the smell emanating from the deal that may hurt the Republicans most. Mr. Gulotta's chief deputy, Robert J. McDonald, helped arrange the contract, then retired and began collecting a $150,000 annual fee from William M. Blake, the former Suffolk County Republican Party chairman and head of the brokerage that underwrote the deal.
And then there is the Federal investigation into charges of abusive guards at the Nassau County jail, a case prompted by an inmate's brutal homicide there. Sheriff Joseph Jablonksy, who runs the jail, is Mr. Gulotta's appointee.
These successive setbacks are hardly the way Mr. Gulotta hoped to celebrate Nassau County's 100th anniversary this year.
"This is a defining moment for those of us in county government," Mr. Blakeman said. "This is an opportunity for Tom to show that he has the leadership skills to solve tough problems."
Mr. Gulotta has begun to tackle the issues, ending the insurance contract and announcing a series of revenue-raising moves. But Mr. Blakeman has also grown increasingly assertive on behalf of a usually docile Legislature, issuing investigative subpoenas, calling the county budget director's testimony "a disgrace" and accusing Mr. McDonald of a conflict of interest.
Republican leaders are clearly nervous, not just about Mr. Gulotta and his future, but about the rest of the party. They fear repercussions for their ticket in this fall's off-year elections. All 19 seats in the Legislature are up, as well as 27 local offices in the towns of Hempstead, North Hempstead and Oyster Bay and the cities of Glen Cove and Long Beach. Republicans control the Legislature by a lopsided majority, 14 seats for them and 5 for the Democrats.
The back-to-back 1998-99 deficits could not come at a worse time for the Republican legislators. They may be forced to impose tax increases or program cuts or both in adopting the next budget -- a vote that by law must come just before the election.
Although he is not running this year, Mr. Gulotta's record will surely be a focal campaign issue. If he proves to be a major liability, he may have the most to lose.
"If the Republicans reach the point of it being either him or them, then something's going to happen," said Arthur J. Kremer, a former Democratic state assemblyman from Long Beach. "If the county gets downgraded to junk-bond level, Gulotta's not invincible."
Lewis J. Yevoli, the former Democratic supervisor of Oyster Bay, who lost to Mr. Gulotta for county executive in 1997, said: "I don't think he survives this time. He's got nine lives, but I think he's into his ninth life."
Despite Mr. Gulotta's woes, most politicians contend that it would be a big mistake to write him off so soon.
"I've been on standby half a dozen times for the political wake of Tom Gulotta, and it hasn't happened yet, so don't ever count this guy out," said Bruce Nyman, the Legislature's minority leader. Comptroller Parola said: "I would never underestimate him. We're obviously going to have a deficit, but there is time to deal with it."
Mr. Gulotta actually has plenty going for him. For starters, Nassau has no impeachment or recall process to remove him, and he has nearly three years left in his term.
"That's several lifetimes in politics," said the former Suffolk County Executive, John V. N. Klein, a Republican. The public's attention span can be short, and there is time for yet another reversal of fortune. Just a year ago, for example, Mr. Gulotta was still savoring his crushing 2-to-1 landslide over Mr. Yevoli and was being discussed as a contender for statewide office.
"Not to minimize them, I think there's a tendency to overestimate the impact of these issues," Mr. Klein said. He predicted that Mr. Gulotta will survive if county officials make "the painful but absolutely essential" decisions and "face up to the fact there may have to be some modest increases in property taxes coupled with some serious spending cuts."
A vigorous 54 years old, Mr. Gulotta is nowhere near voluntary retirement. "Never felt better," he said in an interview while he was drafting his annual state of the county message, delivered on Monday. He remains unruffled, at least in public, and rarely if ever strays from his own carefully memorized script.
"A little over a year ago the voters elected me with one of the highest pluralities in the history of Nassau County," he said, "and I intend to justify the confidence they placed in me."
Undefeated in decades of running for the State Assembly, Hempstead supervisor, presiding supervisor and county executive, Mr. Gulotta is widely reported to retain high polling numbers, although some political insiders question the depth of his support.
Any potential challenger must confront Mr. Gulotta's daunting personal campaign fund of $2 million and the corps of loyal followers he commands within the Republican organization.
And the rest of the picture in Nassau is just about ideal for Mr. Gulotta. Crime is at its lowest level in 29 years, welfare rolls for home relief are down 53 percent from their high, and the 2.2 percent jobless rate is the smallest in a quarter of a century.
But for most of this decade, finance has been Mr. Gulotta's nemesis. The problem started in 1992, during the double whammy of the national recession and the demise of the aerospace industry, once the mainstay of the Island's economy. The county ran up a $120 million deficit, the largest up to that time. His proposed remedy was to increase property taxes by nearly 26 percent.
But Mr. Mondello -- then serving as the Town of Hempstead supervisor as well as party chairman -- led a rare revolt against the executive, slashing the tax increase to about 10 percent and leaving Mr. Gulotta the thankless duty of cutting programs and some 2,000 jobs.
Mr. Gulotta came up for re-election the next year and faced a spirited challenge from the Democratic nominee, Benjamin L. Zwirn, then supervisor of North Hempstead. Mr. Gulotta won with 51 percent of the vote, which has turned out to be his closest call ever at the polls, and he vowed never again to allow himself to be tagged as a tax-raising candidate.
He embarked on a strategy of routinely overestimating revenues and underestimating expenses. He imposed room and board fees on jail prisoners and projected $8 million in revenue. Most prisoners could not pay, of course, so only a small fraction was collected. He also banked on one-shot revenues that failed to materialize, like the 144-acre tract in Plainview that he counted as sold in eight budget proposals.
Creative budgeting also concocted deals like getting the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to advance Nassau $51 million for a year in return for the county borrowing $102 million in long-term bonds to finance transit projects in later years.
The flourishing economy and good luck enabled Mr. Gulotta to scrape by with two small surpluses and three relatively modest deficits, until last year -- when hardly anything went right.
Critics say Mr. Gulotta has no one to blame but himself. All along the way, he was warned about the dangers of his daring budget maneuvers by the state and county comptrollers, legislators and the Nassau Citizens Budget Committee, among others.
"It takes a special talent to mismanage to this degree," said Phoebe Goodman, director of the Citizens Budget Committee.
Defending his deficits last week, Mr. Gulotta said: "I make no apologies for cutting and freezing Nassau County's property taxes for seven consecutive years."
But his critics say Nassau would have no financial problem if Mr. Gulotta had taken as much care with its budget as he did with his campaign fund. Ms. Goodman suggested, "Maybe he'd like to make a contribution to the county general fund."
Whatever sympathy Mr. Gulotta may have evoked in 1992-3 because of national and local economic pressures beyond his control, few people seem to feel sorry for him now.
"The economy is booming and the state, the city and everybody else -- even the Federal government -- are all in the black, and here one of the richest counties in the nation is in the hole to the tune of $200 million," said Desmond Ryan, executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers group.
Mr. Gulotta downplays the deficit. "Is this a legitimate issue that must be dealt with? Absolutely," he said. "Is this a dire circumstance? Absolutely not." But the Legislature's budget review director, Tim Sullivan, described the county's plight with precisely that word, "dire."
To replenish the county's coffers, Mr. Gulotta recently reached a long-delayed agreement to sell the county medical center to a public benefit agency for $70 million, though the county will have to pay the agency a total of $127 million over 25 years, including $18 million for each of the first five years. He sued the health insurance company, and it agreed to settle for $16 million. He also announced an agreement to sell those 144 acres in Plainview for $23 million.
In his state of the county address on Monday, Mr. Gulotta repeatedly boasted of "cutting and freezing taxes." He said that Legislator Blakeman, Comtproller Parola and he "are forging a long-term fiscal plan that is designed to reduce short- and long-term county obligations, cut taxpayer spending and reduce reliance upon non-recurring revenues."
Critics accuse Mr. Gulotta of failing to address the underlying fiscal issues. Nassau now has nearly $3 billion in debt, or $2,214 per resident. That is more than triple the $687 figure in neighboring Suffolk.
Nassau's antiquated assessment system, based on 1938 construction prices, prompts thousands of challenges from property owners every year. The county pays more than a $100 million a year in refunds for excess taxes, and in recent years has incurred $1 billion of debt for this problem alone.
Pay for a typical Nassau police officer will reach $73,859 next year, compared to $70,659 in Suffolk and $49,023 in New York City. Other personnel costs are also high. Nassau Community College professors are among the highest paid in the nation, even compared with some Ivy League schools. Civil service workers just negotiated a 20 percent increase over five years, well above current inflation rates.
If Mr. Gulotta finishes his term at the end of 2001, he would tie the longevity record set half a century ago by J. Russell Sprague. But sentiment is growing in Republican ranks that it is time for Mr. Gulotta to move on. The question is, where can he go?
"Joe Mondello would not be unhappy if Tom wanted to leave," said Mr. Nyman, "but he's not going anywhere. What's he going to do, become a lawyer and do closings?"
Although his late father was a judge and his brother is one, Mr. Gulotta has turned down past suggestions that he accept a judgeship. The most coveted appointments, on the Federal bench with their lifetime tenure, are foreclosed to him for now because both of New York's United States Senators, who sponsor the nominations, are Democrats since Charles Schumer upset Alfonse M. D'Amato last fall.
With the White House in Democratic hands for at least two more years, any other Federal post is equally unlikely. One possibility that has been discussed, however, is an appointment to a state post. If Governor Pataki saw a way to help Nassau Republicans by taking Mr. Gulotta off their hands, he would probably be glad to oblige.
One factor favoring Mr. Gulotta's continued reign is that while there are several potential successors, none is the clear-cut heir apparent.
To become county executive, Mr. Mondello would have to decide whether to relinquish his party post and private job. Legislator Blakeman had been a front-runner before suffering a setback in running last year for State Comptroller, but the current crisis is giving him a new opportunity to show leadership.
Supervisor Richard V. Guardino Jr. of Hempstead, Nassau's largest town and the Republican home base, would be a natural contender. But he has been in his job barely a year. His predecessor, Gregory P. Peterson, seems content to continue as president of the Off-Track Betting agency. State Senator Michael L. Balboni and Supervisor John Venditto of Oyster Bay are relatively new. Comptroller Parola is a veteran elected county official, but years ago he made the mistake of challenging Mr. Mondello, though they have since made up.
As for the Democrats, they are a distinct minority in Nassau, and the current disarray in their party handicaps their chances of capitalizing on Mr. Gulotta's difficulties. But Mr. Nyman said that they intend to make serious inroads in November.
More than anything else, however, Mr. Gulotta's fate hinges on what he and the other officials do in the coming months.
"If the problems get solved in a credible way, there will be one outcome, and if they don't, there'll be another outcome," said Hank Morris, a Democratic political consultant who grew up in Nassau and who helped run Mr. Schumer's Senate campaign.
Ms. Goodman agreed, but only if Mr. Gulotta takes some bitter fiscal medicine. "I think he'll survive," she said, "if he does the right thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas S. Gulotta, who has been the Nassau County Executive for the last 12 years, faces doubts about his effectiveness. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Thomas S. Gulotta delivering his State of the County speech on Monday. He played down the county's financial straits. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); COUNTY LEGISLATURE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); COUNTY LEGISLATURE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); ETHICS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (62%); 

PERSON: GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC); LAMBERT, BRUCE THOMAS S GULOTTA (97%); BRUCE A BLAKEMAN (56%); JOSEPH N MONDELLO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



616 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 3-Day New York Preservation Conference;
5 Groups Join To Make a Case

 BODY:
Five city and state preservation groups have combined to sponsor a conference Friday through Sunday called Preservation in New York.
It starts with a reception Friday evening at the Municipal Art Society at 457 Madison Avenue, where there will be an exhibit on preserving New York's modern monuments. 
 Saturday opens with a discussion, at St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery on Second Avenue at 10th Street, in which Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. of Charleston, S.C., will speak on preservation as an economic development tool. Other discussions, which will be held at the church and Cooper Union, will range from waterfront preservation to buying and selling historic homes and creating open- space oases. The session concludes with the highlights of a statewide study by Donovan Rypkema, a development consultant, on the economic impact of preservation, which found that every $1 million spent on restoring historic buildings results in adding $1.9 million to the state's economy.
Sunday offers tours of many preservation projects and historic neighborhoods, as well as a look at the new 42d Street.
For registration and fee information, call the Historic Districts Council, a sponsor, at (212) 7999-5837. Other sponsors are the Preservation League of New York State, the Historic House Trust, the New York Landmarks Conservancy and the Municipal Art Society. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HISTORIC DISTRICTS COUNCIL (NYC); PRESERVATION LEAGUE OF NEW YORK STATE; HISTORIC HOUSE TRUST; NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY; MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (57%); PRESERVATION LEAGUE OF NEW YORK STATE (91%); MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC DISTRICTS COUNCIL (NYC); PRESERVATION LEAGUE OF NEW YORK STATE; HISTORIC HOUSE TRUST; NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY; MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY PRESERVATION LEAGUE OF NEW YORK STATE (91%); MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (94%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



617 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
New Flexibility on Meeting Mt. Laurel Obligations

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A 119-UNIT market-rate town-house project and a neighboring 50-unit rental complex for low- and moderate-income tenants, both being constructed by the same developer, are beginning to take shape in Holmdel in Monmouth County.
In Stanhope in Sussex County, one five-unit group home has been completed and another of the same size will start construction next summer. And in Washington Township in Morris County lower-income families, with financial assistance from the township, will be able to buy existing homes that will carry deed restrictions to make sure that the homes remain affordable to low- and moderate-income purchasers. 
 The three examples suggest ways municipalities and developers are providing low- and moderate-income housing across the state that differ from the high-density residential communities of the last decade. The units will help the towns meet their obligations under the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel decisions, requiring them to provide housing opportunities for people earning 50 to 80 percent of the median income in the area.
The requirement, believed to be unique in the nation, led to many large-scale developments during the building boom of the 80's when some towns let developers build four market-rate units for every one addressing the needs of lower-income tenants or buyers -- units known as "affordable." But by the late 80's residential development, including Mount Laurel housing, slowed.
In 1994 the Council on Affordable Housing, created under the 1985 Fair Housing Act to oversee Mount Laurel issues and monitor compliance, devised more flexible rules to help towns meet their share of the 83,000 affordable units the state says it needs by the end of this year. If a municipality's housing plan is approved by the council, which lacks enforcement powers, it is protected from suits by developers for six years.
Among other things, the rules enable towns to reduce the density of planned projects and receive two credits for each affordable rental built; those for the elderly get 1.33 credits per unit. Towns are also able to include in their fair-share obligation either group homes for the elderly or the mentally or physically disabled, or to provide mortgage subsidies to income-eligible families to buy homes priced at the lower end of the resale market.
Washington Township, for example, will make available $20,000 in mortgage assistance to up to 10 buyers of homes within its borders. The subsidy is to help bring market-rate housing within the reach of buyers whose income does not exceed 80 percent, or $51,760, of the area's median income. The median for a family of four is $64,700.
Applicants must also be approved for a mortgage, have at least $1,000 in savings and attend home ownership classes sponsored by the nonprofit Housing Partnership of Morris County. The homes must carry 30-year deed restrictions that cap the resale price.
One couple has been approved for a mortgage, said Susan M. Zellman, executive director of the partnership. "This program allows people to buy a home where they want it and preserves the character of the community," she added.
The Council on Affordable Housing said that the resale cap may increase annually based on the percentage increase of maximum income eligibility. The council's revised rules, along with the state's strong housing market, have aided the production of affordable housing. And the shape of the projects that include such housing has changed to reflect today's market conditions, which favor one-family homes, rental housing and small upscale town-house communities.
"It has taken time for towns to focus on the options," said Shirley M. Bishop, executive director of the Council on Affordable Housing, part of the state's Department of Community Affairs. "But they are now taking a more active role in determining which options to use and where the affordable housing is located." Meanwhile, she went on, "developers perceive the market is hot and want to start projects," adding that "each side is getting something they want."
From the municipal perspective, "anything that gives more flexibility to towns advances Mount Laurel," said Jeffrey R. Surenian of the Lomell law firm in Toms River, who represents towns in Mount Laurel matters.
Stephen Eisdorfer, a partner at Hill & Wallack, a Princeton-based law firm that represents developers in Mount Laurel cases, added: "While towns and developers with mutual interests are negotiating deals, restructuring zoning, and building, no new sites are being zoned for Mount Laurel housing." What such arrangements ultimately will accomplish is unknown, he added.
Lawsuits persist, some of them tied to how existing affordable housing sites have been restructured. Others reflect the still strong resistance of some towns to Mount Laurel. Of the state's 566 municipalities, 237 have had or are in the process of having their housing plans approved by the Council on Affordable Housing or the courts.
MS. BISHOP conceded that some of the options could mean zoning for fewer affordable units. But they have also encouraged often smaller projects that reflect today's market. "And they actually get built, which is the goal," she said.
The council estimates that since it started monitoring Mount Laurel compliance in 1987 more than 21,000 affordable residences had been built or were under construction as of June 30, 1998, up from 18,549 at the same time in 1997. Zoning is currently in place for 14,000 more residences.
In Stanhope, local officials are partnering with nonprofit operators to build and manage two group homes. One, for five developmentally disabled residents, was recently completed; the other, for five elderly tenants, will be built this summer. Both are on sites off Brooklyn-Stanhope Road that the borough conveyed or will convey to the developers.
The new homes, along with an existing one for three developmentally disabled residents, will fulfill the borough's obligation of 36 Mount Laurel units, of which 15 were to be produced through new construction. The rest were satisfied through the rehabilitation of existing units.
The group homes, "provide a housing opportunity, especially for the elderly, at a much lower cost to the community than a high-density project," said Ms. Zellman, who is chairwoman of Stanhope's planning board as well as executive director of the Housing Partnership for Morris County. Built at the typical 4-to-1 ratio, she said, such a project would have generated 60 units, which would have taxed the borough's municipal services, particularly schools.
To help meet its remaining Mount Laurel obligation of 256 units, Holmdel worked out an agreement with Continental Properties of Woodbridge to build 119 town houses and 50 affordable rentals. They will rise on 33 acres at the corner of Route 35 and Laurel Avenue, which had zoning in place for 231 condominiums.
The project is part of Holmdel's affordable housing plan, which was revised in 1994 following state rules that such plans be updated every six years. This time the township wanted to take advantage of the options and "fashion a plan that would have a minimum burden on the community," said Mr. Surenian, the attorney, who represents Holmdel on Mount Laurel matters.
In its earlier plan Holmdel, among other things, rezoned 12 sites for high-density projects. Prior to 1994 six of the projects -- totaling 700 units, including 191 affordable ones -- were built, most of them in the township's northern sector along Route 35 where utilities are in place.
The result was overdevelopment in that part of the community, said Michael P. Bolan, of Banisch Associates, a planning and consulting firm in Flemington that represents Holmdel. The new plan "addresses a higher percentage of the township's Mount Laurel obligation with fewer overall housing units," he said.
Continental Properties, for instance, agreed to build just 169 units, including the 50 affordable rentals, which with the 2-for-1 bonus will give Holdmel credit for 100 Mount Laurel units. Stephen Fisch, a Continental principal, said his company agreed to the revised plan because "we would rather have 119 market-rate units we knew we could build, than take the chance on 231 units we were unsure would ever get built."
Mr. Fisch said the town houses "will be larger and more luxurious" than those originally planned, meeting a demand from empty-nester and professional couples. That, along with buying the property at an "attractive price," makes the economics of the entire project work, he said.
The town-house project, Woods at Holmdel, will sit on 30 acres. The units, averaging 2,000 square feet, will have three bedrooms and one-car garages, and be in 18 two-story buildings. Pre-construction prices will be $205,000 to $250,000; common charges will be $116 a month, Mr. Fisch said.
The rental project, Laurel Village at Holmdel, will rise on the remaining three acres. The one- to three-bedroom apartments, each with a private entrance and 700 to 1,150 square feet, will be in four two-story buildings. Monthly rents will be $575 to $850, said Mr. Fisch.
He said both projects, for which site work is under way, will be built over the next two years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of some of 119 market-rate town houses that Continental Properties will build in Holmdel. (Dennis Wise for Continental Properties)
 
Map of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT LAUREL (67%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (73%); FAIR LENDING (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



618 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
All Eyes Are on Senate Race Except Those of DiFrancesco

BYLINE: By Jennifer Preston; Jennifer Preston is Trenton bureau chief for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco?
The decision by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg to retire after his term expires next year not only shakes up the political landscape for next year's Senate race but also changes the dynamics for the governor's election in 2001. 
 "Senator Lautenberg's decision changes everything," said Thomas P. Giblin, chairman of the state Democratic Party. "All of these races are intertwined."
While much of the political talk around the state has focused on the long list of possible Senate candidates that includes Governor Whitman and former Gov. Jim Florio, the possible ascension of Mr. DiFrancesco is preoccupying most people here at the State House.
Governor Whitman, who is limited to two terms as governor, is under heavy pressure from state and national Republican leaders to run for the Senate next year. She promises to make a final decision within the next couple of months.
Mrs. Whitman said that she would not give up her role as governor if she became a candidate. But if she won, she would be turning over the final year of her second term to Mr. DiFrancesco, now the Senate President. Under the New Jersey constitution, the state does not have a lieutenant governor.
In fact, Mr. DiFrancesco, a Republican from Scotch Plains, might find himself holding both jobs -- Senate President and acting Governor -- which could give him a leg up on his ambitions to become elected governor in November.
"It means that he has a tremendous advantage in two ways," said Cliff Zukin, a professor at Rutgers University who directs the Eagleton Poll. "It allows him to build name recognition, which is extremely difficult to do in New Jersey bcause we only have the one statewide office. And it really helps in terms of his base."
It is unlikely that Mr. DiFrancesco, a lawyer who first came to Trenton in 1976 after winning election to the General Assembly, would have to worry about a primary battle once he became acting Governor. And he would probably have an easier time raising money.
Considering how competitive recent contests for the Governor's mansion have been, Mr. DiFrancesco would still have to fight hard to hold onto the job.
For instance, James E. McGreevey, the Democratic mayor of Woodbridge who nearly toppled Mrs. Whitman in 1997, is already gearing up for a campaign. He dismisses concerns from his fellow Democrats, who say that Mr. DiFrancesco -- prematurely ensconced in the Governor's seat -- might hamper his efforts. "In the last election we were able to mount an effective campaign against a four-year incumbent," he said.
But the record shows that New Jersey voters rarely toss out incumbent governors, so Mr. DiFrancesco would certainly have an easier time than if he were running as Senate President -- that is, as long as the economy continued to hum and he handled himself well.
In an interview last week, Mr. DiFrancesco, a moderate Republican, played down any possible advantages that the job of acting Governor might have on his ambitions to become governor. "I don't know if it means anything at this point," he said.
He also noted that taking over as acting Governor would have its disadvantages as well as its advantages.
"It would definitely have its ups and downs," Mr. DiFrancesco said as he sat behind his heavy mahogany desk on the second floor of the State House. "You are inheriting an administration. There are going to be a lot of hard choices to be made in a very short amount of time."
What could New Jerseyans expect from Mr. DiFrancesco as acting Governor?
Like Mrs. Whitman, he considers himself a conservative on fiscal management but more moderate on social issues. For example, he has been behind several tax-cutting efforts in recent years, and supported the legislation that restored an income tax deduction for a portion of a homeowner's property taxes. At the same time, he has long supported abortion rights.
Over the years, he has developed a record that supporters and opponents will likely mine for campaign fodder. Among the major laws that he has sponsored are the state's family leave act, the creation of a catastrophic relief fund for families with seriously ill children, the state's lemon law, which protects purchasers of defective automobiles, and the $300 million dredging and economic development bond act.
As a legislative leader in his fourth term as Senate President, he describes himself as a consensus-builder, which can sometimes annoy members of the Assembly and those in the Governor's office when they just want a piece of legislation passed. He is not one to necessarily demand a fellow Senator's vote except when he really needs it.
As Senate President and acting Governor, he would be controlling two-thirds of the state's governing apparatus. But he insists that wielding such power "would not change my style."
"I'm not afraid to involve a number of people in the decision-making process," he said. "We benefit from as much input as possible."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Preston

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) STATE HOUSE PRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAYORS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (SEN); PRESTON, JENNIFER FRANK LAUTENBERG (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



619 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 18; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Path to a Comfortable Retirement: Knowing What to Spend When

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF 

 BODY:
AH, retirement, and early retirement at that. Trips to Hawaii and Mexico. Lazy days restoring a sailboat.
These are some of the activities of Ken and Marilyn Rocky of Little Silver, N.J., who are now planning to travel to England, having just returned from Puerto Vallarta. They have started on a life of travel and a pursuit of their own interests -- and are loving it. 
 "In the back of my brain, I always figured that I would retire at 59," Mr. Rocky said. "My definition of failure was to be still working at 60."
By that definition, the Rockys are super successes. Mr. Rocky retired a year ago at age 55 from his job as a district manager for AT&T. Mrs. Rocky, who is the same age as her husband, runs her own business as a management consultant but has plenty of time to travel with her husband. They have no children.
Mr. Rocky took advantage of a company buyout; he took a lump-sum pension payment and rolled it over into an individual retirement account. He also got other goodies, like a year's salary. In addition, the Rockys have Mrs. Rocky's earnings, and the stock market has been relatively good to them.
On the advice of their accountant, Doug Stives of Curchin & Company in Red Bank, N.J., the Rockys have made some financial moves and are planning others to keep their taxes in retirement as low as possible. Tax laws affecting retirees were already complicated, and with new provisions in effect for 1998 returns, the situation is even more complex.
One of Mr. Stives's admonitions involves what assets to use for everyday living. "The strong advice I try to give retirees is: Don't plan on living on those types of assets that are tax-deferred until after-tax assets have been exhausted" -- especially for someone like Mr. Rocky, who is not yet 59 1/2 and could thus face a 10 percent early-withdrawal penalty, Mr. Stives said. Early retirees can arrange a penalty-free withdrawal from a retirement account before 59 1/2, but complex rules require a minimum five-year payout to avoid a 10 percent penalty.
The tax-deferred assets include I.R.A.'s and what are known as qualified plans -- that is, pension plans, 401(k)'s, Keogh plans and similar retirement plans. For the Rockys, Mr. Stives advises living on Mrs. Rocky's earnings and the money in their nondeferred savings and stock portfolio before withdrawing any money from the I.R.A.
The reason -- beyond any penalties -- is that when money is withdrawn from a tax-deferred account, taxes are due on the full amount as ordinary income. This can be taxed as high as 39.6 percent, although most taxpayers are in lower brackets. But for securities sold outside a tax-deferred plan, the tax rate on any capital gain is just 20 percent; in the 15 percent tax bracket, capital gains are taxable at only 10 percent.
"Rather than take money out of your pension plan, I'd argue it's better to sell off some of your Microsoft," Mr. Stives said. By law, an individual must start taking money out of qualified plans at age 70 1/2. Mr. Rocky is 15 years away from that. With careful planning, he could end up with four or five times what he now has in his I.R.A., Mr. Stives said.
The Rockys, of course, could run out of assets to finance their carefree retirement, but one help, Mr. Stives said, will be Social Security, which Mr. Rocky can start tapping at age 62. The Rockys may decide to defer Social Security beyond age 62 to increase their monthly benefits. But part of their Social Security benefits will be taxable, subject to the amount of their other income.
At some point, the Rockys could sell their house and pocket a capital gain on it of any amount up to $500,000 without paying a cent in tax. Of course, they would have to buy or rent another place to live, perhaps a condominium or something smaller than their suburban home.
AS for the I.R.A. money, Mr. Stives hopes the Rockys will roll some of it over into a Roth account. This may be heresy to some, since Roth accounts are seen by many advisers as primarily for younger investors. Converting an I.R.A. into a Roth account makes one liable for taxes on the money converted -- but then it lets the account holder or a beneficiary withdraw the money tax-free, no matter how much it has grown. The fact that a retiree must find the money to pay the one-time tax bill gives people pause, especially because a provision that allows taxpayers to spread the tax bite over four years ended last Dec. 31.
People with adjusted gross incomes below $100,000 can take any chunk of I.R.A. money and roll it over into a Roth. The Rockys expect a gross income of $50,000 to $60,000 from Mrs. Rocky's earnings, their investment income and other sources. With deductions and exemptions, their taxable income may be about $25,000, putting them in the 15 percent tax bracket. They could have about $18,000 more in taxable income before being bumped up into the 28 percent bracket. Mr. Stives recommends that they fill up the 15 percent bracket by rolling over $18,000 of I.R.A. funds into a Roth I.R.A.
Unlike the funds in an ordinary I.R.A., the money in a Roth never has to be withdrawn. Roth money can be left to a spouse and children, and it continues to be free of income taxes.
Can other workers in their 50's do what the Rockys are doing? "It is not always feasible," Mr. Stives said. "We have a number of clients who come in and say they have accumulated a million bucks with equity in their house and stock winnings, and they think they can retire.
"They think that if they can get 7 percent on their money, they can live quite well," he added. "They neglect to consider that equity in their house is not income-producing." He points out to them that they may live 40 or 50 years more and could use up their assets quickly. Retirees often don't realize that their spending may well increase after retirement, and that medical expenses can eat up life savings at the worst possible time.
"They are also forgetting inflation," he said. "I can guarantee we'll see it one day again.
"The typical person is in some cases in a dream world because he made 30 percent on his stock portfolio, but you can't depend on that continuing," Mr. Stives added.
At the other extreme are people who avoid any investment risk and make 3 percent or so on their money. Mr. Stives favors a happy medium.
As for the Rockys, Mr. Stives said he thought they could make retirement work. If worse comes to worst, Mr. Rocky can always take another job. Indeed, he worked one day as a consultant, but that seems to have fulfilled his need for employment. "Get over it," he told himself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Ken Rocky's early retirement, he and his wife, Marilyn, are planning carefully to make their funds last. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Last-Minute Savings"
The road to lower taxes for 1998 did not necessarily end on Dec. 31: By contributing to their retirement savings plans by April 15 of this year, taxpayers not only pave the way for long-term financial security, but in many cases can still lower their 1998 tax bills, too. Here are some of the opportunities.
 
* DEDUCTIBLE I.R.A.'S -- The majority of taxpayers can still put up to $2,000 apiece in a traditional individual retirement account as late as April 15 and deduct it from 1998 income. Even people covered by an employer-sponsored pension plan may take the deduction if their income is below $30,000 for a single person or $50,000 for a couple filing jointly. The contribution limits are phased out up to $40,000 for a single person or $60,000 for a couple.
 
* SPOUSAL I.R.A.'S -- A person who is not covered by a qualified retirement plan is no longer barred from making a deductible I.R.A. contribution simply because his spouse is covered, provided that the couple's adjusted gross income is below $150,000, with a phase-out to $160,000. The 1998 contribution may be made as late as April 15 this year.
 
* ROTH CHANGES -- Taxpayers who converted traditional I.R.A.'s to nondeductible Roth I.R.A.'s, or who opened Roth accounts in 1998, are allowed to revert all or part of the account and any resulting income to a traditional account -- a process called recharacterizing -- as late as the due date of the return. (Including extensions, that may be as late as Oct. 15, 1999.) Who might want to recharacterize? Taxpayers who discover that their Roth conversions may result in bigger tax bills than they want to pay just now, even with the four-year payment schedule allowed for 1998, or who find that the additional income would make them ineligible for the child credit or other credits.
 
* KEOGH PLANS -- Self-employed taxpayers who set up Keogh tax-deferred retirement savings plans before the end of 1998 have until the due date of their returns, including extensions, to put money into them.
 
* SIMPLIFIED EMPLOYEE PENSION -- Self-employed taxpayers who do not have a Keogh plan in place may instead contribute to this pension, known as a SEP. They have until the due date of the return to set it up and contribute to it.
 
(Source: Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company, C.P.A.'s)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: RED BANK MANUFACTURING CO LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (73%); HAWAII, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PERSONAL FINANCE (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); US 401K PLANS (78%); US KEOGH PLANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TAX LAW (64%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; ROCKY, KEN; ROCKY, MARILYN MARILYN ROCKY (92%); DOUG STIVES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



620 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3421 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Things;
Reading Palms, Auras and Computer Printouts to Write Psychic Roadmaps

BYLINE: By BARBARA WIND 

 BODY:
IN Colonial America, fortunetelling was against the law. It still is in New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut. But in New Jersey, the age of Puritanism has given way to the New Age.
Sort through your junk mail, and among the coupons for pizzerias, electrical contractors and landscapers you may find one for a reading by a psychic, offering to "help you see the light and answer the questions you've been searching for." 
 What many skeptics consider a questionable pursuit is, in fact, a bona fide business enterprise. Well, bona fide may be a stretch in some cases, but marketing oneself as a professional psychic is hardly illegal.
Indeed, it is nearly impossible to drive down the main street of any town in New Jersey without -- excuse the expression -- seeing a sign, often in neon, advertising a psychic's services. Some may call themselves advisers, others spiritual advisers. Many have been in the same locations for years, suggesting that business is thriving.
"We have put on the glass slipper, and it fits," said Jean Munzer of Oakland, director of the Metaphysical Center of New Jersey. "It is a respectable career."
And psychic fairs flourish, at shopping malls or as charitable events for organizations like the American Red Cross. Some are conducted under the auspices of the Metaphysical Center, said Ms. Munzer, which was founded in 1956 and has about 500 members. In addition, the center sponsors lectures at William Paterson College in Wayne the first and third Saturday of every month from September through June, and many adult schools offer courses in palmistry and tarot card reading.
So just how many psychics are there in New Jersey? Everyone who lives in the state, the professionals say, since they believe everyone has psychic abilities. How many are in the business? Hundreds, maybe thousands; no form of licensing or certification is required, and no count is kept by the state government, the Chamber of Commerce, the Better Business Bureau or the Metaphysical Center.
How many are truly talented? "Fifty to a hundred," estimated 100," said Nancy Orlen Weber, a practicing psychic in Denville. Most do not practice full time; one psychic practices secretly because her husband opposes anything even remotely connected with the occult.
People turn to psychics probably for the same reason they have for millenniums: for help with their problems, most often related to love or money, said MaryAnne Alvaro of Global Psychics, an international group of practicing psychics and entrepreneurs based in Toronto.
While many clients believe in the paranormal, others go to psychics as they would to wise and trusted friends, therapists or ministers. And they come from every socio-economic stratum: "politicians and welfare mothers, stockbrokers and truck drivers," Ms. Alvaro said.
Some clients do it for fun. "Parties, charitable events and business conferences often feature psychics as part of the entertainment," Ms. Alvaro said. "Guests can often have several readings done by different psychics on the same day or evening and compare the results."
Another reason is "the opportunity to reveal problems and secrets to someone who will listen empathically and offer advice or direction," Ms. Alvaro said. "Since this advice does not have the imprimatur of a physician or a traditionally trained therapist or minister, the client hasn't invested a great deal of time or money and may easily choose to ignore it. It, thus, offers a non-threatening solution to a problem."
For many reputable psychics, money, they say, is hardly a priority; most insist they go into the field to help others. Few do readings full time; rather, they support themselves by alternate means in fields like nursing, psychotherapy and massage. They also offer other kinds of help: some New Jersey psychics volunteer to help police detectives locate missing persons or criminals; some work with animal rescue squads to find lost pets.
Their methods vary, but what many psychics have in common are great people skills: they appear gentle, open and welcoming, and they love to talk and listen.
 
ROSE VERNON
A 'Straight Psychic,' Without Props
Rose Vernon of Clark had an Italian grandmother who, she said, could "see things" and would "cast incantations against the evil eye." But as a child, Rose, born in Camden and reared in Newark, never imagined that she, too, would become a psychic. She married, had children and ran an industrial cleaning business for years before she emerged as a clairvoyant.
It came about 30 years ago through a customer, an astrologer who told her he believed she had great psychic abilities and would be engaged in this kind of work within 10 years. Ms. Vernon was intrigued, studied astrology for 10 years and has now been practicing astrology and other metaphysical disciplines, like reading palms, tarot cards and runes, for more than two decades. "The cards and other things are only tools," said Ms. Vernon, who calls herself "a straight psychic."
"I don't need props," she said. "I see auras. The tools help my clients relax and open up to me."
She has worked with police departments on missing persons cases, participated in psychic fairs and does readings at parties and bridal showers. And she says she has numerous clients, both men and women, many of whom have remained loyal through her career. "Men's questions tend to be business issues, while women usually ask about love," she said. Her clients range in age from their 20's to their 80's.
"When you do a reading, most people know the answers deep down in their hearts," she said. "The rest is confirmation." What happens when she sees problems ahead? "I'm very careful," she said. "I don't want to start trouble."
At least one client and another psychic says Ms. Vernon's readings are on target, although, she allows, "I'm right about 80 percent of the time."
People often go to her for healing although "I don't presume to be a medical doctor or God," she said. "Not formally trained as a healer, I do my own techniques, and it works for me." However, she readily admits her limitations. In the case of her own mother, who died of leukemia, "I'd relieve her pain, kept her alive much longer, but I couldn't save her life," she said.
Her ability may be based on simply being more perceptive and receptive than the average person. "I believe most people are psychic," she said. "Everyone can learn to play the piano, but not everyone's talented."
 
JOHN FOORD
An Age-Old Path To New Realities
Gertrude Stein asked on her deathbed, "What is the answer?" Alice B. Toklas, her lover and lifelong companion, remained silent. Stein then asked, "In that case, what is the question?" The question, it seems, is everything, in the view of John Foord: "You adjust reality by defining it."
For Mr. Foord, who lives in Chatham, such a shamanic philosophy is a way of learning to perceive life by using not only the conscious but also the subconscious, or intuitive, part of oneself that one has, through social conditioning, learned to distrust. "I don't like to use the word unconscious because we're conscious but we don't use part of it," he said. "We've lost a lot of our skills through education."
Mr. Foord, a mechanical engineer, worked for Exxon until he retired more than a decade ago. His wife, Janet, was head of the science department at Kent Place School for Girls in Summit for 20 years. He came to shamanistic journeying through his studies with Dr. Michael Harner, a world-renowned anthropologist who is the director of the Foundation for Shamanic Studies in Mill Valley, Calif. And Mr. Foord has been a guest lecturer at Drew University in Madison, the City College of New York and New York University.
"All it takes is to realize that there's more than one reality in the world," Mr. Foord said. To help his clients see other realities, he teaches them how to enter a trance state, often encouraged by the rhythmic beating of a drum. And while the idea may be frightening, he is quick to explain: "A trance state means not directly connecting with ordinary reality. When we watch TV, we're in a trance. Sixty percent of waking life is in a trance. One hundred percent of non-waking life" -- that is, sleep -- "is in a trance."
"People don't use their total capabilities in problem-solving," Mr. Foord said. Once in the trance, the client asks a question. "In shamanic journeying, the question is always a what, not a why," he said. "The client speaks into a tape recorder It's important to record the sessions. People tend to forget what they hear if it doesn't fit in with their usual thoughts."
He also believes the answer is within. "You are the supreme expert on yourself," he said. "We tend to believe others more than ourselves."
The objective in going on a shamanistic journey is to open oneself up to unusual or non-linear thought. "It's important that people realize that they're not just linear thinking machines," Mr. Foord said. "A computer is that. We don't invent anything with school knowledge. You have to go beyond what you're taught. Everyone has second sight." But, he added: "People often tend to ignore or dismiss their intuitions, thinking, 'If I didn't learn it in school, it isn't valid.' "
In addition to teaching shamanistic journeying, Mr. Foord uses massage as a healing technique and also practices shamanistic healing, which has been used worldwide in one form or another for more than 20,000 years. He addresses illnesses by asking, "What causes the interruption of the normal rejection of toxicities?" Using his hands to hover over the body, he said, he believes he can feel "a viscosity that has the consistency of honey," and within that he sometimes finds "something like a straw, a wire or rock." Using the shamanic technique of extraction, he then asks the object, or toxicity, to come out. It may sound bizarre, but he says it often works and counts a physician and an attorney among his successes as clients.
"Getting in touch with one's own spirit is crucial," Mr. Foord said, "because everything is imbued with spirit. Therefore everything and everyone is connected. My long-term goal would be to shamanize the world because if everyone could connect, the world would be a lovely place."
 
NANCY ORLEN WEBER
A Gift That Comes With Some Burdens
"When someone asks me, 'What do you do?' my answer is, 'I do life.' "
Nancy Orlen Weber worked for many years as a registered nurse. Now, she is a healer of another sort. But she doesn't ask her clients about their symptoms.
"I do not diagnose; I do not treat," she said. "I look and scan the energy field." That tells her "all I need to know to help people heal." It may sound nutty, but she welcomes skepticism. She was once skeptical of her own abilities and wondered if she were not suffering a form of mental illness. But "experience proved me both sane and effective," she said.
"My job is talking therapeutically," said Ms. Weber, who teaches body-mind awareness and visualization as a stress-management technique. She does not use tarot cards or palmistry because "the mind is the best tool," she said. "You don't really need anything to be part of the universe."
Ms. Weber, who lives in Denville, says she has always been very perceptive -- and even remembers her own birth. When, as a young child, she described it, her mother stared at her in disbelief and said, "How did you know that?" Good question. "I always thought that other people were kind of blind," she said. "That's what made me see that it's a gift."
But there were also problems. She predicted so many deaths she ended up feeling responsible when the predictions came true and other children began calling her a witch. Now, although she focuses on the beautiful, she also sees the ugly.
Since 1980, she has worked with law-enforcement agencies, including the Morris County Sheriff's Department, as a consultant on cases involving missing children, murder and rape. She has earned a commendation from the department as well as a badge. "Really good detecting is intuitive," she said. "It takes all the data and processes it below the conscious level." While this kind of work, for which she receives no financial compensation, is extremely stressful, it is also "most satisfying," she said.
In addition to being a nurse and teaching holistic healing techniques at the County College of Morris, Ms. Weber is an interfaith minister has been trained in psychotherapy. She and her husband, Dick, an electrical engineer and computer expert, are the founders of Holistic Alliance International.
Her clients run the gamut: young and old, men and women, professionals and blue-collar workers, artists and those who lead more prosaic lives. She works with them on relationships and health issues like addressing chronic pain, nutrition and weight management, abuse and panic attacks. She also works with people in rehabilitation institutes.But her intent is not to provide continuing therapy; it's to teach people, in just a couple of sessions, to develop their own ways to maintain and improve their health.
Ms. Weber uses her psychic awareness to help find lost pets and works with S.P.C.A. of Morris County on animal cruelty cases. She has worked with the equine industry to improve the health and performance of horses.
A woman of seemingly boundless energy, she is the author of a self-published memoir, "Psychic Detective," which chronicles her work in law enforcement. She has also written and produced a series of audiotapes, "Inner Journeys." And as a Universalist minister in the Life Spirit Congregational Church, she loves to conduct weddings.
In addition to all her other activities, she has a cable television show, "Body, Mind and Spirit," which appears Fridays at 5 P.M. on Cablevision channel 3 in North Jersey. And she is reinstating her weekly workshops in Denville.
"Being of benefit, helping strengthen other lives is extremely rewarding," she said. "I feel grateful for being able to be of service."
 
JEANETTE MONICO
Looking to the Stars For Energy and Healing
Jeanette Monico of Rockaway didn't grow up knowing psychics or believing in the paranormal. A Roman Catholic from Brooklyn. she married young, had children and eventually moved to Staten Island. "I outgrew my first marriage and sought more meaning in life," she said. She found it in astrology -- not uncommon in the 1970's, when the most common pick-up line was "What's your sign?" (Hers is Sagittarius.)
Nowadays, an astrological chart can be done in minutes with a computer. Back then, it was an intensive, time-consuming process that required logorhythmic calculations. Although Ms. Monico found these computations difficult, she persevered. Many other students' interest in astrology eventually waned, but hers grew.
"I became a person who had more depth, more insight," she said. "It became my tool. I used it to look deeper into people; it helped me understand people better." She found herself seeking more and more knowledge and discovered what was then the American School of Astrology in West Orange, run by Sylvia Sherman, who became a close friend.
"Astrology was the path that led me to different directions," she said. In addition to being an astrologer and psychic, Ms. Monico is both a licensed practitioner of Reiki massage therapy and a cosmetician, as well as an ordained minister in the Universal Life Church, as many psychics are.
She considers herself a healer, not only through Reiki but also in her work as a cosmetician at Just for You Women's Center in East Hanover. It provides beauty and health services for women, including some undergoing treatment for cancer. Using wigs and cosmetics, she helps these women feel more attractive, and while this is not a cure, it often helps them heal.
Ms. Monico says she has experienced visions, sees auras and continues to practice as a psychic. "God is an energy," she said. "I call it God because that's what I've been taught, but it's faith, spirit and energy. Faith, love and trust equal a holy trinity."
Most of her clients are people in transition who want advice. "They're usually in their 20's," she said, "or in midlife when they're feeling, 'Let's get ready to rumble again.' " Although "I believe I can influence what I see," she said, "I never want to see bad things." But she acknowledged: "I don't mind if I see a bad time coming. I don't feel you can stop anything."
 
A Dark Cloud Over Your Head? Not Likely
THE problem with psychics is problems.
"Problems are what usually drive people to seek the help of psychics, and there are quite a few disreputable people who make it their business to take advantage of this situation," said MaryAnne Alvaro of Global Psychics in Toronto. "They prey on the troubled, the weak and the gullible."
Some astrologers have undergone intensive training, passed an exam and been certified, but no one needs a degree, training or license to hang a shingle. "Never go to someone off the street," said Jeannette Monico, a licensed practitioner of Reiki massage therapy and a cosmetician, as well as an ordained minister in the Universal Life Church. "You feel desperate, and they know it."
Rose Vernon warned against patronizing fortunetellers who frighten clients with negative predictions. "They say, 'I see a dark cloud over your head' and extract a lot of money to make it disappear," she said. "No one has a dark cloud over their head. The only thing they've made disappear is your money. And it's disappeared into their pockets." She also warned against "anyone who tries to sell you candles or other objects to strengthen or heal your aura."
Several of the psychics interviewed related the story of a woman who was told by a self-described healer that it would cost $20,000 to be rid of the cause of her troubles. "The healer advised her to bring that amount in cash, in a brown paper bag, that they would then burn as part of a ceremony of exorcism," Ms. Alvaro said.When the patron balked, "her healer countered with 'Your problems won't go away unless you prove that you love God more than money.' Although the troubled woman had been taught money is the root of all evil, she was wise enough to realize that burning her life savings would only add to her woes."
How do you find a reputable psychic or spiritual healer? "The best advertisement is the recommendation of a satisfied customer," Ms. Vernon said.
Nancy Orlen Weber advised, "Ask a health food store proprietor or a therapist. Numerous publications such as New Jersey Naturally and Shamanism may be of help."
If you choose to go to an astrologer, seek someone certified by one of the numerous astrology associations that require course work and tests for certification. The American Federation of Astrologers, established in 1937 and based in Tempe, Ariz., requires an eight-hour exam to prove competency in the mathematics of erecting and interpreting astrological charts. Members also agree to abide by a code of ethics. Files must be kept confidential, and the astrologer should be available for follow-up. "Ask if the astrologer is certified and how long he's been in practice," said Judi Zeisler, a California astrologer who is a spokeswoman for the federation. "Run from anyone who uses only a first name or mentions death."
All the psychics interviewed warned against accepting any reading as 100 percent accurate.
"If you tell them one or two things that are accurate, they tend to believe it all without scrutinizing," Ms. Munzer said.
In New Jersey, the price of readings may begin at $10 to $15 for a short reading by a street psychic and go beyond $150 for a reading or an astrological chart. Ms. Vernon charges $35 for a half-hour reading.
"Beware anyone who tries to hit you up for cash; sell you candles or crystals; tells you someone else is responsible for your bad luck; warns you not to tell anyone about the reading, or tries to interest you in additional readings," Ms. Alvaro said. "No one needs more than one reading a year, although some people find the process so therapeutic that they become addicts."
Is it necessary to reveal anything to a psychic? "There is an inherent contract," Ms. Weber said. "Both parties are obliged to give and receive information with as much authenticity and compassion as possible." Most, however, said they preferred clients not to offer personal information. Although they are glad to answer questions, psychics prefer to do the talking.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Psychics practicing in New Jersey range from the street entrepreneurs who hang their signs in storefront windows to trained astrologers like Jeannette Monico of Rockaway, shown computing a chart, and John Foord of Chatham, a shamanistic healer. (pg. 1); Nancy Orlen Weber, left, conducting a workshop in communicating with animals at her home in Denville. Other psychics use business cards, street signs and modern marketing techniques like mail coupons and the Internet to advertise their services. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (51%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PSYCHIC PHENOMENA; FORTUNE TELLING; ASTROLOGY ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (92%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TRUCK DRIVERS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (64%); RETAILERS (51%); SECURITIES BROKERS (50%); 

PERSON: WIND, BARBARA MARYANNE ALVARO (73%); ROSE VERNON A 'S (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



621 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
How Far To Swing The Ax?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR the better part of two decades, the Federal budget deficit imposed tight limits on debates over tax policy. Republicans could not indulge their political and ideological desire to return more money to the people. Democrats were forced to support tax increases to maintain spending for the social programs they championed.
Now, with the advent of large and growing budget surpluses, the terms of the debate are being rewritten. No longer shackled by the demands of austerity, Republicans are pressing for a big tax cut this year, although they remain divided over the form and the size. The Clinton Administration is trying to thwart the Republican plan by demanding that Social Security and Medicare get first dibs on the surplus. 
 While the political fight this year and probably into the 2000 elections will center on that shorthand -- tax cuts versus saving Social Security -- there is also a growing focus on another, older and more fundamental issue. Should tax policy focus simply on raising the revenue needed to pay for the activities of Government? Or can the tax code be used as an effective instrument to address the nation's social and economic ills?
President Clinton is emerging as a determined advocate of the engineering approach, proposing to use tax law in myriad narrowly focused ways to help specific groups and encourage particular goals.
Because the rules that govern the Federal budget process make it all but impossible to create new spending programs, politicians are becoming increasingly creative in using tax credits and other breaks to direct money toward what they see as compelling problems. In the budget he sent to Congress this month, Mr. Clinton could not propose spending $5 billion to help families with the costs of long-term health care or $3.7 billion to help communities replace or modernize crumbling schools. But under the budget rules, he was able to allocate those amounts to those needs through tax credits. And these are just a few of dozens of examples.
"For the last few years, the dominant view has been one that regards the income tax system as if it were chicken soup -- a magic elixir to address any of the nation's social and economic problems," said Michael J. Graetz, a professor at Yale Law School and a former Treasury Department official. "Mr. Clinton's budget is only the most recent example. It seems to be becoming more and more extreme all the time."
Republicans object to most of Mr. Clinton's proposals. And many of them advocate either streamlining the income tax system or replacing it with a new approach, perhaps a tax on consumption. They would wipe out the numerous so-called targeted provisions that critics say make the current tax code horrifically complex and inefficient. But for all their talk of driving a stake through the heart of the Internal Revenue Service, most Republicans in the end go along with the practice of loading up the tax code with provisions intended not just to raise money but also to reward specific companies, industries, groups or people.
"The pendulum seems to have swung about as far as it's ever gone in terms of these little tweaks and twists and doodads intended to reach targeted objectives," said Gregory F. Jenner, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Washington.
The Clinton Administration and most Congressional Democrats object to across-the-board reductions in income tax rates, contending that they benefit the wealthy disproportionately. They say that targeted tax breaks insure that help goes to those who need it most, and that they can enact a modest package of such cuts this year without having to spend any of the surplus.
Two examples of the approach they favor are the earned income tax credit for the working poor, which was expanded in 1993, and the tax credit for lower- and middle-income families with children that was instituted in 1997. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said that these moves have given a family of four with half the median income the lowest income and payroll tax burden in 31 years.
But critics say the targeted approach has long since gotten out of hand.
The more the tax code deals with additional social and economic issues, the further it moves from the notion that people with equal incomes should pay equal taxes. Moreover, each new tax break creates more complexity; the child credit that many people will be able to claim for the first time during this filing season required a new work sheet and, for families with three or more children, a new form, and has proved to be a headache for many taxpayers, despite the ultimate reward of up to $400 a child on 1998 tax returns.
"They are exponentially increasing complexity, particularly for the middle class, which up until recently had not been the beneficiaries of these targeted initiatives," Mr. Jenner said.
IN pushing for an across-the-board income tax rate reduction of 10 percent or more, Republican leaders say they want to provide relief for all taxpayers, not just a chosen few, and to do so in the simplest possible way.
"Taxpayers won't be denied a tax cut simply because they don't behave the way the Government thinks they should or don't fall into a certain Government-prescribed category," said Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee and a Presidential hopeful.
Mr. Kasich, who derided the White House's targeted approach as being for "left-handed cab drivers in New York," said reducing each of the five income tax rates by 10 percent would mean that "taxpayers will not have to fill out new forms or decipher complicated instructions to get their tax cut."
But not all Republicans agree, and Mr. Kasich signaled last week that he might have to scale back his plan to win support for it within the party.
Senate Republicans want to phase in any tax cut more slowly than Mr. Kasich has proposed. Moderate Republicans in the House prefer a package of cuts aimed at the middle class because they do not want to be accused by the Democrats of giving most of the benefits to the wealthy.
The moderates are rallying around an alternative plan that would provide narrowly drawn tax reductions -- largely for the middle class -- including scaling back the so-called marriage penalty, which leaves many couples in which both spouses work and have fairly similar incomes with a higher tax bill than that of two single people with the same incomes.
The moderates also want further increases in the amount of money retirees can earn before Social Security benefits become taxable. And they favor steps to restrict the impact of the alternative minimum tax on people who claim the new child and education credits.
Mr. Clinton's plan includes a variety of poll-tested tax proposals to deal with health care, child care, education, the environment and other issues.
They include a proposed $1,000 credit to help offset the costs of long-term health care, tax credits for employers who set up literacy and basic education programs in the workplace, an elimination of the 60-month limit on the deductibility of student loan interest, an increase in the credit for child care expenses and an expansion of a tax credit for the purchase of fuel-efficient and low-emission vehicles.
The White House strategy over the last few years has been to propose as many initiatives as it can stuff into its budget and then negotiate hard to force the Republican Congress to include a few of them in the final tax and spending laws passed at the end of the session.
The surplus could provide enough wiggle room to accommodate both parties, up to a point. But it remains unclear, in the aftermath of impeachment and with the 2000 election looming, whether either side wants a deal. The early signs are that this year could be one in which both sides make their arguments for what fiscal policy should look like at the dawn of the 21st century, and then let the voters decide.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Bearing the Burden"
The biggest tax weight is borne by upper-income people, so they
would benefit most, in dollar terms, from a 10 percent tax cut.
 
INCOME CATEGORY
 
Less than $20,000
Percent of taxpayers: 33.5%
Percent of total taxes paid*: Less than 0%
 
20,000 - 49,999
Percent of taxpayers: 36.6
Percent of total taxes paid*: 11.5
 
50,000 - 74,999
Percent of taxpayers: 14.6
Percent of total taxes paid*: 14.2
 
75,000 - 99,999
Percent of taxpayers: 7.5
Percent of total taxes paid*: 13.5
 
100,000 and over
Percent of taxpayers: 7.8
Percent of total taxes paid*: 62.4
 
INCOME CATEGORY
 
Less than $20,000
Average tax bill: Receive a credit
Average tax bill, assuming a 10% cut: Receive a credit
 
20,000 - 49,999
Average tax bill: $1,653
Average tax bill, assuming a 10% cut: $1,488
 
50,000 - 74,999
Average tax bill: $5,077
Average tax bill, assuming a 10% cut: $4,569
 
75,000 - 99,999
Average tax bill: $9,500
Average tax bill, assuming a 10% cut: $8,550
 
100,000 and over
Average tax bill: $41,619
Average tax bill, assuming a 10% cut: $37,457
 
*Figures may not add up to 100% because of rounding.
 
(Source: The House Ways and Means Committee, based on data from the Joint Committee on Taxation)(pg. 21)
 
Chart/Photos: "The Battleground"
Washington is still trying to shift from a mentality shaped by deficits to one of affluence. In tax policy, the problem is how to divide a big, rich pie resulting from budget surpluses.
 
DEMOCRATS
GOAL
The President and other Democrats want a modest package of tax breaks carefully constructed to reach those they consider most in need.
 
President Clinton
Sees the budget surplus as a chance to build a legacy.
 
Robert E. Rubin, Treasury Secretary
Advocates so-called targeted tax cuts to achieve policy goals.
 
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee.
Works well with Republicans in shaping compromises.
 
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee
Strong advocate for liberal goals in social policy.
 
OUTLOOK
They can try to compromise with Republicans this year or fight it out in the 2000 elections.
 
REPUBLICANS
 
GOAL
Congressional Republicans say the money from the budget surplus should go directly back to taxpayers.
 
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee
Will take the lead in writing the tax bill.
 
Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, Senate Finance Committee chairman
Supports a cut in income tax rates and expansion of I.R.A.'s.
 
Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee
Cautiously seeking phased-in tax cuts.
 
Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, House Budget Committee chairman
Wants a 10 percent, across-the-board income tax reduction.
 
OUTLOOK
Before battling the Democrats, the Republicans could face political gridlock within their own ranks, because some moderates do not support across-the-board cuts. (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (96%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MEDICARE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); JOHN KASICH (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



622 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN UP CLOSE;
Make Money to Make Money

BYLINE: By MARCIA BIEDERMAN 

 BODY:
When Rachel Treichler says she is planning to spend a lot of Greenbacks soon, she is not using slang. Ms. Treichler is the owner of Eco Books, which opened this month on Fifth Avenue in Park Slope and became the first retail store to accept Brooklyn Greenbacks, a local currency printed on recycled United States notes.
"We had to print more money" when the bookstore began to participate, said Craig Seeman, a founder of the group of Green Party members and others that issues the currency. There is about $8,000 of the money, which was first issued in June 1997, in circulation, he said. 
 The currency "is a way for local businesses to compete with the megastores," Mr. Seeman said. It is perfectly legal, he added.
Greenbacks are the coin of a fairly small realm, mostly downtown Brooklyn and Park Slope, with plans to expand into Bedford-Stuyvesant. About 150 participants use and accept them, mostly carpenters, computer consultants and other service providers, who employ them mainly to buy one another's labor.
Participants are listed in a directory. "It should bring in customers and costs them nothing," Mr. Seeman said.
Upon signing up, individuals get the equivalent of $48 in Greenbacks, free. They can call Mr. Seeman's office at 718-797-0045 to join, or go to Eco Books, between Union and Sackett Streets, on Saturdays.
Some vendors accept Greenbacks for partial payment. At Eco Books, whose entry into the Greenback economy was reported last week in The Park Slope Courier, customers can pay up to 10 percent of the purchase price in Greenbacks.
"We wouldn't expect a store to accept 100 percent Greenbacks for all items," said Mr. Seeman, because rent and inventory have to be paid for in regular dollars. But service providers often take them as full payment, he added.
Ms. Treichler, whose store specializes in environmental books, said she expected to hire bookkeepers from the group's list, as well as people to hand out fliers.
Once the first goody bag of Greenbacks is spent, the only way to get more is by offering goods or services. "It's not for the person who thinks just as a consumer," Mr. Seeman said. Everyone lists a skill. A lawyer and an optician are on the list, as well as dog walkers.
The Greenbacks are modeled on the Ithaca Hours, a currency that has circulated in that upstate city since 1991 and has issued the equivalent of $67,000, said Paul Glover, a founder. MARCIA BIEDERMAN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brooklyn Greenbacks are the coin of a fairly small realm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ECO BOOKS (BOOKSTORE) BROOKLYN&PARK SLOPE (63%); ECO BOOKS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECO BOOKS (BOOKSTORE) BROOKLYN&PARK SLOPE (63%); ECO BOOKS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY BOOKSTORES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); RETAILERS (89%); 

PERSON: BIEDERMAN, MARCIA BROOKLYN GREENBACKS (95%); CRAIG SEEMAN (92%); RACHEL TREICHLER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



623 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: In Newark, Changes for Schools Open Old Wounds and New Hopes

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
The scheduled departure in June of the state-appointed Newark School Superintendent, Dr. Beverly Hall, for the superintendent's post in Atlanta has set off a fusillade of rhetoric. Some of it rejoins the battles that greeted the state takeover four years ago, and some presses for changes that would round off the admittedly sharp edges of the takeover mechanism.
By far the most prominent voice is that of Mayor Sharpe James. He has long deplored the takeover, as well as the implicit and explicit charges that a quintessentially Newark corruption and cronyism characterized the old elected school board administration and conspired to crush student achievement. 
 Being shunned by Dr. Hall and state takeover administrators from the beginning, he in turn shunned them and missed few opportunities to portray them as carpetbaggers feeding on the 47,000-student district. (Dr. Hall was a deputy school chancellor in New York City before coming to Newark.) So far, he has not softened his tone, lambasting Dr. Hall's tenure here as a failure and her departure as disruptive.
There are other, less strident voices. Some make the point that an opportunity to ease tensions is being created by Dr. Hall's departure, as well as the resignation of another symbol of the takeover's acrimony, State Education Commissioner Leo F. Klagholz. The Rev. Edwin Verner, head of the Newark-North Jersey Committee of Black Clergy, said his group saw the personnel changes "as kind of a new day" and planned to meet with the next Education Commissioner, David Hespe, to promote its vision for a changed relationship.
Clement Price, a professor of history at Rutgers University and a member of the state-appointed advisory board for the Newark schools, said that although Dr. Hall never had the backing of elected officials, she did build a coalition of parents, teachers, foundation heads and corporate leaders -- all independent voices -- to back change. Now was the time, he said, to use that structure to examine the future of the 82-school system.
Dr. Price said the advisory board members had asked the state to delay the first steps that would return the schools to local control, postponing for a year the first election for spots on the advisory board, now scheduled for April. The extension would allow the board to "strengthen our ties to the community," he said. Fifteen of the 18 current board members are considering running for the 9 seats on the elected board.
Others, including Carl Sharif, a member of the city's elected school board in the 80's, said the changes could help people get a therapeutic perspective.
"What happened four years ago was not so much a state takeover as a city giveaway," said Mr. Sharif, adding that it was impossible four years ago for local officials and residents to admit the extent to which they had mismanaged and damaged the school system. "But you can't come in and say everyone is corrupt, and then say that everyone has to work with you to improve things and expect people to join in. That's what Bev Hall did, and now everybody has to agree to make themselves vulnerable, step back and reassess their roles."
In an interview, Mayor James conceded that there was no real possibility at this time of returning schools in the state's largest city to full local control. At a minimum, the law requires a five-year period of state supervision before achievement levels are reviewed. What is possible, he said, was a broadening of the base of those involved in directing the schools while under state supervision, and he has suggested enlisting local business figures, foundation officials, elected officials and community groups.
"The Governor I think made a mistake with Dr. Hall," Mayor James said. "The only standard she raised was her resume. We have to start all over since she has disrupted things. and I am willing to even remove myself from the process and put a business and community consortium at the top."
Some of the Mayor's statements have troubled Rebecca Doggett, Dr. Hall's special assistant for community development, who says they echo the "state of denial" and personal vituperation of four years ago. She insisted there were many new people involved in the system now and expressed fear that these new voices could be drowned out by the old at a crucial time.
She said the city did not now have the "shock" of forced layoffs and economies that required Dr. Hall to dismiss about 600 people when she took over. Nor, Ms. Doggett said, are there the continuing corruption investigations by Dr. Hall's office that helped sour attempts to communicate with local elected officials.
"There are those who want to turn back the clock," she said, "but I don't think that the new people will let that happen."
Dr. Verner, who is a physician in addition to being an assistant pastor at St. James A.M.E. Church in Newark, seemed to recognize some of the same potential problems as Ms. Doggett. While the clergy group has worked well with Mayor James in the past, he said, its preference now was to not revisit the problems of the past, and not to work with or through the mayor.
"We work closely with the Mayor, but in this particular instance it seems as though the best line of communication is between the incoming Commissioner of Education and whoever he appoints as superintendent," said Dr. Verner, eschewing any direct criticism of Dr. Hall or the state itself. "We don't see the current situation as hurting the state's credibility, but as enhancing the community's credibility and potentiality."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Beverly Hall, who is bound for Atlanta. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ); ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: HALL, BEVERLY; SMOTHERS, RONALD BEVERLY HALL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



624 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Auto Industry Keeps the State in the Fast Lane;
From Regional Offices To Ports and Plants, Big Part of Economy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
New Jersey, the car capital of the United States? From a vantage point on the turnpike high above auto terminals at the port on Newark Bay, and not far from the auto marine terminal in Jersey City and Bayonne, it might seem that way.
Acres and acres of new cars, side by side, bumper to bumper, sit glistening in the sun, waiting to be shipped to showrooms in the Northeast or abroad. 
 "Sort of like a sea of cars," said Eugene Spruck, currently the chief economist of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "It's a very impressive sight."
The visual impact is not all that is impressive. Importing and exporting cars and trucks pumps $1.2 billion a year into the New Jersey economy each year and provides about 10,000 jobs, Mr. Spruck says.
That is only the tip of the bumper. Consider this:
* New Jersey is the North American headquarters for such foreign automakers as Aston Martin, BMW, Ferrari, Jaguar, Mercedes-Benz, Rolls-Royce, Subaru and Volvo. Other companies like Daewoo have regional offices or other complexes here.
* New Jersey also serves as worldwide headquarters for Hertz Corporation, the nation's No. 1 car rental company.
* Ford Motor Company has a 1.5 million square-foot plant in Edison that annually produces 130,500 Ford Ranger pickups and Mazda B-Series compact pickups; and General Motors Corporation has a 2.7 million square-foot assembly plant in Linden that last year manufactured a total of 178,797 Chevy S10's and GMC Sonoma's, small pickups, and Chevy Blazer, GMC Jimmy and Oldsmobile Bravada, all midsize sport utility vehicles.
* The automobile and truck industry in the state -- including manufacturing, wholesale, retail and automotive repair and services -- created 108,475 jobs in 1997, up O.7 percent from 1995, according to the state Department of Commerce.
* About 800 dealerships statewide generated nearly $670 million in state taxes in 1997, according to the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers, a trade group.
In addition, some innovative designing is going on here. The Subaru Outback, the Japanese carmaker's hybrid sport utility vehicle built on a passenger car "platform" rather than a truck frame like other SUV's, was designed in Cherry Hill.
And the idea for Saturn's three-door sedan coupe, introduced in the 1999 models, was hatched when a dealer with franchises in Morristown, Livingston and Denville saw that his 8-year-old son was having trouble getting out of the cramped back seat.
So the question is worth repeating. New Jersey, the car capital of the United States?
"I don't think that's so far-fetched," said Richard Marshall, corporate communications director of Subaru of America Inc., with headquarters in Cherry Hill. "I think that New Jersey is a very vibrant place for the automobile industry and an important contributor to what's going on."
Four hundred of Subaru's 800 employees in the United States work in New Jersey and last year the company contributed more than $51 million to the state economy.
Aside from Subaru, BMW of North America Inc., with 594 employees in New Jersey, was the only carmaker to release information on the property taxes it pays in New Jersey, $1.1 million, but did not divulge payroll figures.
The Ford plant in Edison, with 1,519 employees, has an annual payroll of $89.4 million and pays $1.6 million in property taxes, said Kathleen Hamilton, a spokeswoman for the automaker.
The GM plant in Linden, with 2,563 employees, has an annual payroll and benefits of $250 million and paid $2.6 million in property taxes in 1998, said David Caldwell, a spokesman for the truck group.
Subaru, the only Asian car company with headquarters in New Jersey, is also the only company situated in the southern part of the state. The other foreign carmakers, all European, have settled in Bergen County. And many manufacturers, like BMW -- on 40 acres of former farmland in Woodcliff Lake -- have exquisite campus-like settings.
BMW's were first imported by the Hoffman Motor Company in nearby Montvale in the early 1970's. When BMW of North America bought Hoffman in 1975 it chose to stay in Bergen County, and moved to its current site in 1989.
"At the time, land was plentiful," said Martha McKinley, a spokeswoman for BMW. "Quality of life was high, with proximity to Manhattan and all the business support functions and cultural opportunities located there."
Officials of other companies said other factors that convinced them to establish headquarters in the state included access to airports, distributors, and a large and well-educated labor pool.
Carlo Fiorani of Ferrari of North America, which has 29 employees at headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, said the proximity to Manhattan and Newark International Airport was also a factor in its choice.
Jaguar North America, with 175 employees in Mahwah, moved to New Jersey from midtown Manhattan in 1968 because it needed more space and a warehouse complex, said Whitney Said, a spokesman. Aston-Martin Lagonda of North America leases space from Jaguar.
Mercedes-Benz of North America began renting space in Fort Lee in 1965, and in 1972 moved to its current site in Montvale, a 300,000 square-foot building situated on 40 acres. It employs about 750 people, including part-time employees and consultants.
Volvo Cars of North America Inc., with headquarters in Rockleigh, employs about 650 people there and at sites in Rutherford and Montvale and the port in Newark.
John Nothwang, executive vice president and general manager of the Americas and Pacific for Hertz Corporation, which employs 1,100 people in its headquarters in Park Ridge as well as 30 rental locations in the state, said it was not the concentration of so many car companies here that convinced Hertz to leave Manhattan in 1988.
"The decision was made like a lot of companies that are relocating," Mr. Nothwang said. "Access to public transportation, favorable work environment, strong educated work force, communities that have good schools."
The result, Mr. Spruck, the port authority's economist, pointed out, is as plain as the hood ornament on a Mercedes. "New Jersey is the second largest port in the country for importation of automobiles," he said, followed by Los Angeles. "It's almost a thousand a day on the inbound."
To be precise, 332,000 vehicles came through New Jersey ports in 1997, and 96,000 were shipped out.
For Stuart Lasser, the Saturn dealer who has been selling cars for 22 years, New Jersey is the heart of the auto trade. One day, when he brought home a red coupe at the request of his son, Hal, who was 8 at the time, he noticed the boy had trouble getting into the back seat. That's how he came to suggest a second door on the driver's side, a move that Saturn says has helped increase sales 30 percent.
For all of this, however, there is an accompanying ambivalence, says Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of American Studies at Rutgers University who co-wrote "Looking For America on the New Jersey Turnpike" (Rutgers, 1989).
Professor Rockland said the car was a mixed blessing, providing mobility and bolstering the economy but also contributing to the decline of the state's cities and sense of community.
"The automobile," he said, "is the tail that wags the dog of New Jersey life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Acres of cars at Port Newark on Newark Bay, above, await shipment to showrooms in the Northeast or abroad. And Ford assembles the Ranger at a plant in Edison. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Stuart Lasser, who owns three Saturn dealerships, saw that his son Hal had trouble getting out of the cramped back seat, so they came up with the idea for a third door. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); HTZ (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (82%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (82%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (82%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (82%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (82%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); SEDANS (72%); SPORTS CARS (72%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (66%); RETAILERS (63%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



625 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Paperwork Piles Up For Active Investors

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
KEEPING records of stock purchases and sales and completing the tax forms to report capital gains and losses are tricky enough for the average investor. But for day traders, who spend their days flipping stocks, and for a growing army of other investors who trade often, lured by the bull market and the ease of trading on line, compliance with tax reporting rules creates a mountain of paperwork.
Just ask John D. Rankin of Osprey, Fla., who spends 20 hours a week managing his portfolio. He figures he makes 150 to 300 trades annually. 
 "It's a tremendous task to put together all those capital gains," said Mr. Rankin, who, in addition to managing his investments, is working with his wife, Bobbie Walck, to refurbish a motor yacht that sleeps six.
He has even considered paring back his portfolio, which averages roughly 200 stocks, to alleviate the pain. Paying taxes is not the problem; he figures that is the price of successful investing. Rather, the headaches come from sorting through the folders and spreadsheets he keeps to document his stock trades.
"It becomes painful to compile all that information, and you just want to walk away from it," he said.
Mr. Rankin, 49, began investing in the stock market when he was 21. His initial stake: money that he earned selling newspapers and shares of Laclede Gas that his father had given him when he was 6 years old. After graduating from the University of Missouri with a bachelor's degree in business and public administration, he worked in his father's company, which distributes industrial products to the wholesale plumbing and drilling trades.
At the same time, he refined his trading technique by talking stocks with stockbroker friends over drinks after work. "You look at P/E's and pricing, and you begin to learn," Mr. Rankin said. "As you go through periods of good and bad investing, you ask yourself, how can I do better next time?"
BEFORE he turned 30, he took much more investing risk than he is willing to take today. "Now I'm looking for ways to protect myself by looking at asset allocation, reviewing the fundamentals on particular issues and balancing sectors," he said.
He trades on line using Street Smart, an investing program from Charles Schwab & Company that lets him update stock prices daily and provides price charts and data like individual stocks' dividends and price-to-earnings ratios. The program also tracks his price per share, and calculates gross and net gains.
Mr. Rankin said he made about half his trades on the Internet, after using Yahoo to search for information on companies and their stocks. "The Internet lets me access information in a timely fashion," he said, adding, "It's hard for individual investors to get economic access -- or even any access -- to information from Goldman, Sachs and other big brokers."
He has accounts with three brokers: Schwab, Olde Discount Brokers and Stifel Nicolaus & Company, a full-service broker in St. Louis, where he lived until his brother bought him out of the family business in 1997. Stifel manages part of his holdings for a fee, and he also trades independently at the firm.
Stifel prepares a running monthly compilation of his short-term and long-term transactions, "which helps me manage my capital gains," he said.
Dealing with three brokers means triple record-keeping. "I maintain a book of account for each brokerage account and files for each company that I trade with," he said. "Every trade that I do is deposited in the files and then entered manually into my computer."
At year-end, the paperwork multiplies. Stifel prepares separate capital gains schedules for each money manager with whom Mr. Rankin worked -- there were four in 1998. And Mr. Rankin maintains both taxable and tax-deferred accounts with some of the managers, which complicates the paperwork.
All his Schwab trades are automatically recorded by Street Smart; he manually enters his Olde transactions into that program, too. Then he checks data from Stifel and Street Smart against his own records. When he ascertains that everything is correct, Mr. Rankin, who prepares his own return using Turbotax, enters all sales on Schedule D.
After that, he does what any good taxpayer would do. "I take two Excedrin," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Working through three brokerage firms, John D. Rankin makes up to 300 trades annually. That results in a complicated Schedule D. (Ricardo Ferro for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Capital Gains in a Capsule"
Congress voted last summer to return to two holding periods for capital gains and losses, reversing itself after creating a complex system of three holding periods for 1997 returns.
 
* Short-term gains on capital assets like stocks, bonds and mutual funds that are held a year or less are taxed at ordinary income rates.
 
* Long-term gains on such assets held more than a year are taxed at 10 percent for people in the 15 percent bracket and at 20 percent for those in higher brackets.
 
* Capital losses offset capital gains dollar for dollar. People with net capital losses can deduct up to $3,000 against earned income; any net losses exceeding that amount can be carried forward to future years. For married taxpayers filing separately, the limit is $1,500.
 
* Worthless stocks and securities are treated as if sold for $0 on the last day of the year.
 
* For collectibles, long-term gains are taxable at 15 percent or 28 percent, depending on the seller's tax bracket.
 
* Home sales get real breaks: A couple who sell a principal residence they have owned and lived in at least two of the last five years may generally exclude capital gains of up to $500,000; single taxpayers get a $250,000 exclusion.
 
Mutual Fund Tips
 
* If you switch from one mutual fund to another within a family of funds, remember that the move is still a sale, most likely with a gain or loss on the original fund.
 
* In reporting gains from fund sales, remember that if your capital gains and dividends were automatically reinvested in earlier years, the amount should be included in your original cost. That will reduce the gain on the sale.
 
* Tax-free bond funds can incur a gain or loss when sold; it is only the income from the fund that is tax-free.
 
(Source: Ernst & Young Tax Saver's Guide)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (62%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); MISSOURI, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (73%); WHOLESALERS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); 

PERSON: RANKIN, JOHN D JOHN D RANKIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



626 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Discrimination by State Leaves Residents Uninsured

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your coverage of policyholders formerly insured by HIP Health Plans ("Headache and Heartache of Losing Health Care," Feb. 21) might have noted that a comparable number of New Jersey residents have lost their health insurance permanently because discriminatory state legislation made it unaffordable. 
 The 1992 New Jersey Individual Health Insurance Reform Act disqualified sole professionals from group health insurance we had maintained through national associations. Forced to buy individual insurance, we were expected to subsidize high-risk people rejected for coverage through their small employers, who continue to enjoy such favoritism.
The state urged us to practice what I call "nomad economics," repeatedly moving from one insurer to another to avoid huge premium increases. Although deductibles carried over, patients lost coinsurance credit each time they moved. Rising costs caused so many carriers to stop selling individual insurance that patients finally had nowhere to go, and since 1994, the number of uninsured residents has risen steadily by one percent a year.
Being temporarily inconvenienced by one carrier's closing is quite different from being literally robbed of health insurance permanently.
Former HIP patients, moreover, have received extensive sympathetic news coverage. Having had to change carriers and decrease coverage four times, I alone have been publicizing this abuse of sole professionals for five years, and still nobody cares.
 
JANICE M. CAUWELS
Maywood 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HIP HEALTH PLANS OF NEW JERSEY MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIP HEALTH PLANS OF NEW JERSEY MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); 

PERSON: CAUWELS, JANICE M

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



627 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

Dancing on the Water
 
MONDAY -- The Joyce Theater Foundation, which supports dance programs at the Joyce Theater in Chelsea and at Joyce SoHo, a performance center, will hold a dinner and dance at Pier 60 in the Chelsea Piers sports complex. The evening will feature dance performances by Robert LaFosse, Leslie Browne, Margie Gillis and Philadanco. Swing dancing instruction will be available for guests. Drinks at 6:30. Tickets, $375, from (212) 691-9740.
 
Strings on Riverside
 
TUESDAY -- The violinist Arnold Steinhardt, a founding member of the Guarneri Quartet, will perform in a benefit concert for the Riverside Park Fund. The event, to be held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Mark Solomon, 404 Riverside Drive (113th Street), will begin with a reception at 7:30. Tickets, $75, from (212) 870-3070. 

The Art of Community
 
THURSDAY -- Weston United Community Renewal, which provides rehabilitation services to mentally ill adults in Harlem, will benefit from a reception and art-show opening at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, Lenox Avenue and 135th Street. The event, from 6 to 8 P.M., will also include an exhibition of works on paper by James Jenkins at Gallery M, the organization's exhibition space at 123 West 135th Street. Tickets, $100, from (212) 932-0023, or $115 at the door.
 
The Healing Arts
 
FRIDAY -- Cancer Care, which offers counseling and other services to cancer patients and their families, will benefit from a reception and preview of Artexpo New York at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, 11th Avenue at 34th Street. The show will include 500 exhibition spaces, with works by more than 2,400 artists. The event will run from 5 to 8 P.M. and will include cocktails and hors d'oeuvres. Tickets, $40 at the door. Information: (212) 712-8322.
 
Finnish Crosscurrents
 
FRIDAY -- A dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria will benefit the Finlandia Foundation, which sponsors cultural exchanges between the United States and Finland and college scholarships for Finnish and American students. Cocktails at 7:30. Black tie. Tickets, $175, or $125 for full-time students, from (212) 983-5272.
 
Hungarian Piarist Ball
 
FRIDAY -- The annual Hungarian Piarist Ball, to raise money to support scholarships and other programs of Roman Catholic Piarist schools in the United States and Hungary, will take place at the Plaza. The Piarists are a teaching order founded in the 17th century. Cocktails at 6:30 P.M., followed by dinner, dancing and the presentation of debutantes. White or black tie. Tickets, $185, from (212) 744-8594.
 
Counsel for Children
 
SATURDAY -- The Staten Island Mental Health Society, which provides counseling to children and their families, will have its annual dinner and dance at Tavern on the Green. The event will support the organization's 18 treatment programs at 22 sites on Staten Island. The evening begins with cocktails at 7. Tickets, $160, from (718) 442-2225, ext. 215.
 
Anticipating Spring
 
SATURDAY -- The junior committee of the Inner-City Scholarship Fund will have its annual Spring Fling from 9 P.M. to 1 A.M. at Maxim's, 680 Madison Avenue (61st Street). The event, to provide tuition aid to low-income families with children at 119 parochial schools in the Archdiocese of New York, will include drinks, dancing and a silent auction. Tickets, $80, from (212) 753-8583, or $100 at the door.
 
French-American Conservatory
 
NEXT SUNDAY -- The choir and orchestra of the French-American Conservatory of Music will perform a concert to raise money for scholarships at the school and to finance new classes for children with attention disorders. Helene Jeanney, a teacher at the conservatory, will be the piano soloist at the concert, which will begin at 4:30 P.M. in Florence Gould Hall at the French Institute/Alliance Francaise, 55 East 59th Street. A reception will follow, and the evening will conclude with dinner at the Essex House. Tickets, $250; $75 for the concert and reception, or $35 for the concert alone, from (212) 246-7378.
 
Metropolitan Medievalism
 
MARCH 8 -- A black-tie dinner and dance at the Metropolitan Museum of Art will feature a preview of "Mirror of the Medieval World," an exhibition of works acquired by the Metropolitan and its Cloisters branch since 1977. The evening begins with drinks in the Carroll and Milton Petrie European Sculpture Court, followed by dinner at the Temple of Dendur. A dance party with drinks and a gallery hunt organized by the Apollo Circle, young supporters of the museum, will begin at 9:30 on the museum's main floor. Tickets, $1,000, or $150 for entry at 9:30 for drinks and dancing, from (212) 570-3948. Dance party tickets will be available for $200 at the door.
 
Party at the Whitney
 
MARCH 9 -- The Whitney Museum of American Art will benefit from a dinner and dance at the museum. Cocktails at 7 will be followed by dinner, dancing and a performance by Foxy Brown and Gloria Gaynor. Black tie. Tickets, $1,000, or $75 for entry at 9 for dancing, dessert and the show, from (212) 570-3697.
 
Outside Their Usual Frames
 
MARCH 10 -- Frames created by artists like James Bohary, Lois Dodd, Immi Storrs, Richard Haas and Wolf Kahn will be sold in a silent auction at a black-tie dinner at the National Academy of Design, 1083 Fifth Avenue (89th Street). State Senator Roy M. Goodman and James F. Dicke 2d, an art collector, will be honored at the event, which will support the museum and the school. The evening will begin with cocktails at 7. Tickets, $500, from (212) 427-5076.
 
Art Below Canal
 
MARCH 11 -- The New York Academy of Art will have its annual TriBeCa Ball at the academy, 111 Franklin Street (West Broadway). Drinks at 7 P.M. will be followed by dinner, a live auction and dancing. Tickets, $500, or $100 for entry at 10 for dancing and dessert, from (212) 966-0300, ext. 301.
 
For Young Artists
 
MARCH 11 -- The jazz drummer Max Roach will perform at a dinner at Wilson's Grill and Bar, 201 West 79th Street, to raise money for scholarships at the Harlem School of the Arts. The Harlem School of the Arts Jazz Ensemble and the Stingers, a rock group, will also perform at the event, to begin with cocktails at 7:30. Tickets, $125, from (212) 926-4100, ext. 306. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); FINLAND (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); CANCER CARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANCER CARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FINLAND (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DANCE (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); DANCE EDUCATION (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); CANCER (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELIGION (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



628 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/HYUNDAI SONATA;
An Economical Vehicle For the Comeback Trail

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
IT didn't take long for Hyundai's gamble in the American market in 1986 to begin paying off. But the immediate good fortune the South Korean auto maker won by offering a cheap alternative to established economy nameplates quickly soured.
Its first model, the Excel, had serious quality problems, giving Hyundai a reputation no company wants. But the company has persevered, introducing new products and weathering the Asian financial crisis. 
 Remaining a less-expensive alternative to Toyota, Honda and other imports, Hyundai is seeing a sales surge; retail sales were up 54 percent in January from a year earlier. For the first time in years, dealers are begging for more cars while the company considers expanding its dealer network.
To raise consumer confidence in the much improved quality of its product, the company introduced an innovative new warranty, the Hyundai Advantage, with coverage that rates among the industry's best.
 New products, like this year's midsize Sonata and compact Elantra, have arrived, with more to follow, including the stylish, compact Santa Fe sport utility.
The Sonata sedan, redesigned for the 1999 model, shows just how far Hyundai has come. It breaks ranks with its Asian counterparts by establishing a styling statement of its own. Hyundai's California Design Center, which styled the Sonata, has long turned out eye-catching concept cars. Some of that style is now seen in production vehicles.
The rear styling of the Sonata is especially distinctive. The trunk lid is squared off with a sharply creased edge, as on many other modern cars, but the profile of the back end is shaped like a tombstone. The front features a wide, elliptical grille. The overall look of the forest green GLS test car was elegant and sophisticated.
As is the Toyota Camry, the new Sonata is classified as a five-passenger midsize. It shares the same basic dimensions with its Japanese competitors and the previous Sonata, though it is a couple of inches wider than the earlier version for increased interior room. Likewise, the new Sonata has a tad more headroom than the one it replaces.
The attractive interior, which was beige and taupe leather in my test car, is loaded with storage nooks, crannies, bins and pockets. My single complaint with the interior was the cheap-looking fake wood.
Two new engines, new transmissions and a new double-wishbone suspension were developed for the Sonata. The base engine is a 2.4-liter, dual-cam four-cylinder, one of the most powerful four-cylinders in its class at 149 horsepower and 156 foot-pounds of torque. But the V6 engine in the GLS, though competitive, cannot claim any bragging rights. That 2.5-liter dual-cam engine is rated at 170 horsepower and 166 foot-pounds of torque; the Accord and Camry have 3-liter V6's that produce nearly 200 horsepower.
A five-speed manual transmission is standard; the electronic four-speed automatic is available as an option on the basic model and included on the GLS. The automatic features fuzzy logic that adapts shifts to the driver's style rather than shifting at the same points under a given set of conditions.
The base model is equipped with front disk brakes and rear drum brakes, while the GLS has standard four-wheel disk brakes; it offers anti-lock brakes with traction control as an option.
 The ride and handling of the tested V6-powered GLS equaled those of the Japanese competitors in the class, which are generally unremarkable. The Sonata's new, more-rigid body lends itself to reasonably responsive handling while delivering a smooth, quiet, comfortable ride. Acceleration from the V6 engine was acceptable though, by no means, neck-jerking.
The Sonata's list of safety equipment, however, is impressive. All passengers, including the center rear occupants, have three-point safety belts with pretensioners that tighten in collisions. Dual front and front-side air bags are standard; some competitors do not yet offer side air bags or offer them only as options.
The front passenger seat is equipped with a detection system that determines whether the seat is occupied or a child seat is in place. The system prevents the front and side air bags on the passenger side from deploying if the passenger seat is empty or if a baby or small child is in the seat.
Likewise, the list of standard features is lengthy and includes air-conditioning and air-filtration. The GLS adds cruise control, an upgraded audio system, a split folding rear seat and a rear center armrest with a beverage holder and storage bin.
Major options include leather seating in the GLS with an eight-way power driver's seat and a further upgraded audio system.
 The Sonata's quality has been significantly improved. The only flaws I noted were a stray plastic piece on the back seat and a spot of prematurely worn leather.
 The Sonata provides significant peace of mind with the Hyundai Advantage, which includes limited bumper-to-bumper coverage for five years or 60,000 miles. Typical warranties cover three years or 36,000 miles. The powertrain is covered for 10 years or 100,000 miles. Sonata buyers also receive 24-hour roadside assistance for five years.
The basic Sonata starts at about $15,000, compared with just over $17,000 for the base four-cylinder Toyota Camry. (That's where the V6-powered Sonata GLS starts.)
The Sonata is attractive and competitive in many ways. And its combination of a lower price and a better warranty may make it an alternative to cars like the Camry, which are nearly bullet-proof and have excellent resale value, but at a steeper price.
 
INSIDE TRACK: Still a gamble, but good odds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: After initial setbacks in the United States, Hyundai has improved quality and styling.
 
Chart: "Midsize Sedans With Asian Pedigrees" lists features and specifications for the Daewoo Leganza, Hyundai Sonata, Mazda 626, and Mitsubishi Galant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); 011760 (KSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); HYUNDAI CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); RETAIL SALES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



629 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Eight Who Go Beyond the Call

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
MAYOR GIULIANI made a New Year's resolution to share some of the credit for the city's rejuvenation, acknowledging that it takes more than a mayor to raise up a city.
Mr. Giuliani will get a chance to make good on that pledge this week, when he presents the annual Sloan Public Service Awards to eight city workers. 
 This year the awards, which are sponsored by the Fund for the City of New York, honor a firefighter with the spirit of Thomas Alva Edison and a warehouse manager with a gusto for efficiency. Other honorees include a court liaison officer who juggles dozens of cases of probation violators and a deputy commissioner helping to overhaul shelters for the homeless. Each winner receives $7,500.
Since starting at the Fire Department in 1978, Lieut. Timothy J. Kelly, 43, has had what firefighters call a "knack for size-up." When he arrives at a fire, Lieutenant Kelly has a sense of what strategy and tools to use. But he doesn't just think of the tools he already has. He dreams up ones that don't exist.
In February 1995, Lieutenant Kelly, a lieutenant and a decontamination specialist with the Special Operations Command, was called to Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, where firefighters at a blaze were covered with asbestos. At the scene, Lieutenant Kelly found it difficult to get lights into the park. Afterward at his Roosevelt Island office, he began to draw a plan for a hand truck outfitted with a detachable generator and powerful lights.
Today, the Fire Research Corporation of Nesconset, N.Y., manufactures the Kelly Kart, the offspring of that office doodle. Since September 1997, the city has used the Kelly Kart at several emergencies, including last summer's elevator collapse at the Conde Nast tower in Times Square.
"I know what it's like to be in a fire without light," Lieutenant Kelly said. "I know it will save some lives and protect property."
Injured in January 1998 after he leapt onto a fire truck to secure a falling light, only to slip and fall, Lieutenant Kelly will retire next month. The city will feel the loss, said Chief Raymond M. Downey of the Special Operations Command. "If you had a business and needed five people you would only need two Tim Kellys," he said.
The fund will also honor two officials who are improving city services in less dramatic ways. During the last five years, Marcia Stevenson, a deputy commissioner in the Department of Homeless Services, has helped bring in nonprofit organizations to take over the daily operations of shelters. Now Ms. Stevenson, 56, is overseeing another transformation in the shelter system: instead of checking in for "three hots and a cot," people at the shelters must work at finding jobs, addressing substance abuse problems and resolving other troubles that have led them to homelessness.
This mission, which is based on new policies of both the city and the state, has put Ms. Stevenson in the crossfire between politicians and advocates for the homeless. But she has won praise from colleagues for bringing these camps together and for being flexible, fund officials said.
"A procedure or policy is a piece of paper which represents your best judgment at the time," Ms. Stevenson said. "Within a few months there are indications of how you need to tinker, and you have to be willing to do that."
Like Ms. Stevenson, Donald Campbell has had to overcome suspicions. Mr. Campbell, 52, the director of the central storehouse for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, has consolidated the warehouses of six city agencies into one depot. Mr. Campbell has 2,500 types of items spread across his 500,000-square-foot fief in Middle Village, Queens.
He stocks everything from No. 2 pencils to 55-gallon drums of oil to 80-pound bags of rock salt. Despite agencies' concerns that service would decline, Mr. Campbell said, the new system has improved the availability of supplies and cut costs as well.
"Instead of running their own warehouse, they can come to us," Mr. Campbell said.
The fund will recognize other winners, not for a specific accomplishment, but for their exemplary work in the face of huge and often disheartening caseloads.
Edna Muriel, the only H.I.V./AIDS nurse clinician at Bellevue Hospital Center, walks the halls with her beeper practically punctuating her steps. Many days she is a slave to the beeper, as patients, doctors and family members vie for her attention, intellect and sympathy. Miss Muriel, 45, has called on more than medical expertise in her 10 years of counseling patients. Some of her charges are unemployed, others have no insurance.
"These patients require lots of support, and a lot of these people have no support," Miss Muriel said.
Every day, Wayne White seems to sprint from one courtroom to the next at Manhattan Supreme Court, his arms wrapped around case files. Mr. White, the court liaison officer for the Department of Probation, handles up to 50 cases a day of convicts who have violated the terms of their probation.
At hearings, Mr. White, 33, supplies information about each case, offering exhaustive reports to the judges who prefer comprehensiveness and pithy summaries to those who like conciseness. "We work for the judges, we try to get them everything they want," Mr. White said. "Is a guy reporting, is he doing what he's supposed to, is he working? I try to give that extra effort to get the extra information."
In a system burdened by an expanding caseload, Mr. White's thorough work has won judges' admiration.
This year, one prize morphed into three, recognizing the leaders of the appeals division of the Law Department. Leonard Koerner, division chief for 20 years, has argued cases before the United States Supreme Court five times and has shaped the city's law and lawyers. His career highlight is a 1978 United States Supreme Court victory that gave the city the power to make Grand Central Terminal a landmark.
A defeat, Mr. Koerner said, "would have undermined and done away with landmark preservation around the country."
"It gave cities, including New York, the ability to preserve historic structures," he said.
Mr. Koerner, 56, will share the honors with his two deputies, Stephen J. McGrath, 49, and Frank Caputo, 52. Mr. McGrath, who specializes in tort law, struggles to undo costly verdicts that juries have decided against the city. He recently succeeded in overturning a $30 million judgment against the Board of Education.
"That's an area that is always growing,"Mr. McGrath said of tort suits. "Everyone seems to sue."
Mr. Caputo, procedural expert and legal scholar, handled a 1986 case involving a challenge by theater owners to the city and state plan to redevelop Times Square. Mr. Caputo won, clearing away one of the last legal hurdles to rebuilding the area.
But the three lawyers don't have time to dwell on past victories. Their work is constantly growing. "This Mayor is a very activist Mayor," Mr. Koerner said. "Whenever you have a new policy, someone will have a problem, and you will be in court."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos/Charts: "Wayne White"
TITLE -- Court Liaison Officer, Department of Probation
RESPONSIBILITIES -- Prosecutes probation violators, acts as a liaison between judges and probation officers.
REWARDS -- "You try to turn people's lives around, get them into programs, help them get their G.E.D. That makes you feel good."
CHALLENGES -- "Having to be in two places at once. You are in one courtroom and another part is waiting for you."
 
"Marcia Stevenson"
TITLE -- Deputy Commissioner, Department of Homeless Services
RESPONSIBILITIES -- Oversees 44 shelters that house 7,000 adults.
REWARDS -- "The best stories are the people who move into permanent housing. People you stabilize and you can see they can take charge of their life. That's the coolest thing."
CHALLENGES -- "The hardest part is getting people to open their minds to a different point of view, to listen to someone else."
 
"Donald Campbell"
TITLE -- Director, Central Storehouse, Department of Citywide Administrative Services
RESPONSIBILITIES -- Overseeing the consolidation of six city warehouses into one.
REWARDS -- "We are the starting point for most new city projects."
CHALLENGES -- "The concern when you consolidate is, 'Are you going to provide the same service?' We answered that problem. They have the service."
 
"Timothy J. Kelly"
TITLE -- Lieutenant, Special Operations Command, Fire Department
RESPONSIBILITIES -- Supervises citywide rescue and decontamination units, invents rescue tools and other firefighter equipment.
REWARDS -- "To see people in this city saved and to know you had a part."
CHALLENGES -- "To think ahead and plan for the unexpected."
 
"Edna Muriel"
TITLE -- H.I.V./AIDS Nurse Clinician, Bellevue Hospital Center
RESPONSIBILITIES -- Providing treatment, education and emotional support for H.I.V./AIDS patients and their families, serving as a hospitalwide H.I.V./AIDS expert
REWARDS -- "I find it rewarding when I am able to meet many patients' needs on many different levels."
CHALLENGES -- "We are working in a large hospital and there is a lot of bureaucracy and sometimes you have to be assertive."
 
"Stephen J. McGrath, Leonard Koerner and Frank Caputo"
TITLES -- The three men, lawyers in the Appeals Division of the Law Department, are, respectively, Deputy Chief, Chief and Deputy Chief.
RESPONSIBILITIES -- The division's 37 lawyers file 800 briefs a year.
REWARDS -- Watching people "take a raw product and make it into something superior," (Mr. Koerner). "Reviewing the briefs of others and discussing them; you can try to improve it, that is very satisfying," (Mr. Caputo). "Having a nice win," (Mr. McGrath).
CHALLENGES -- "We can't get enough staff or get the services we need, but that is the nature of government," (Mr. Koerner). "Deadlines," (Mr. Caputo). "When we don't get a win," (Mr. McGrath). (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMELESSNESS (88%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ASBESTOS (66%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (55%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BARNES, JULIAN E RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



630 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Slow Blues in Harlem For Street Vendors

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
CARS were double-parked along both sides of 116th Street between Lenox and Fifth Avenues on a recent Sunday morning while services were held at three churches on the block. But only a few souls were straggling into the large white tents of the Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Market in the corner lot on Fifth Avenue.
Inside, vendors tended tables piled high with colorful masks from Senegal and Mali, ornate kente cloths, and blue jeans and T-shirts. Soualiho Soumahoro sat solemnly on a stool next to the table of hats he was selling. 
 "Sunday, Saturday, nothing," said Mr. Soumahoro, who is from the Ivory Coast, and has been a vendor at the market for two years. "Not busy."
Many vendors say that business has plummeted fast since the glory days of the 1980's and early 1990's. Back then the vendors had their stalls on 125th Street -- some had been there since the 1960's -- and during peak seasons 1,000 might be peddling their wares. But in October 1994, city officials swept out the vendors, most of whom were illegal, saying they were clogging the sidewalks of what is in effect the Main Street of Harlem, causing litter and hurting legitimate enterprises.
Since then, the story of Harlem's vendors is one of economic fear and political tension. The vendors say they have been economically marginalized and their numbers reduced by their relocations to areas where business is worse. Meanwhile, the city and the company it hired to manage the vendors, the Malcolm Shabazz Development Corporation, say that they are trying to help the vendors become legitimate, and that a permanent $1.6 million home being built on 116th Street, with space for 132 vendors, will be ready in April.
After being displaced from 125th Street in 1994, the vendors were offered spaces on Lenox Avenue between 116th and 117th Streets. But vendors say only about 200 chose to move there, with each paying $6 to $8 a day for a stall.
Then, in November, the managers of the market announced that the vendors would have to move again, to the present temporary location. This time only about 90 vendors signed up.
Some vendors want to sever relations with the Malcolm Shabazz Mosque, which runs the development firm, and manage their own affairs, as they did in the old days.
"If the city can get us our own space, we want to run it ourselves," said Bouba Ba, president of the Harlem Vendors Association, a group of 120 current and former vendors who organized in October to deal with their dissatisfactions. "Even if we are not making a profit, we just want to deal with the city directly."
Tensions between the mosque and some vendors have escalated to a fever pitch in recent months. Mr. Ba and the group's general secretary, Oumar Ba (they are not related), said that they and about five other vendors had been barred from moving to the new temporary location, and that the management had called them rabble-rousers.
Izak-el M. Pasha, the imam of the mosque, said he had never heard of either Mr. Ba or the Harlem Vendors Association. As for any tensions between vendors and management, he said, "We wanted to make sure that those who were going to the new site had completed all the necessary paperwork to become legitimate vendors."
To move, vendors must have paid their fees consistently and not sold illegal items like bootleg tapes, he said, adding that he had heard that some vendors simply chose not to move.
In any event, some vendors say, they are losing customers with every move. Lionel McIntyre, director of planning at the Urban Technical Assistance Project, a program of the Urban Planning Program at Columbia University, said the location of the temporary sites makes the losses unsurprising.
"They're becoming more and more distant from the economic value areas," he said, "from 125th Street to the shadows of 116th Street."
He added, "Tourists will be willing to come from the gateway of Harlem at 110th Street to 116th and Lenox, but now to come from 110th to 116th and then over to Fifth is much harder, it's physically marginalizing."
Councilman Bill Perkins said the repeated relocation of vendors was an economic trend in the neighborhood, away from supporting individual enterprise and toward promoting chain stores and malls like Harlem U.S.A., now under construction in central Harlem.
"We have undervalued the small entrepreneur approach," Mr. Perkins said. "We have perhaps overvalued or exaggerated the role that the mall can play."
But Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington said that the Mayor had received universal support from neighborhood elected leaders to move the street peddlers in 1994, and that substantial investment has taken place in Harlem ever since. "I'm not sure what point he's trying to make," he said of Mr. Perkins. "Either he's for investment in this community or he's against it."
What about the promise of the permanent market, scheduled to be completed in April. Mr. McIntyre said that, like the temporary sites, the new one is in a marginal location, half a block from the current spot.
But some vendors have high hopes for the new market, and Mr. Pasha said he had a list of 100 vendors waiting for spots. He added that several factors would bolster the new market: renovation of the Lenox Avenue subway line, increased parking for tourist buses and cooperation between city agencies.
"It has been a long, long struggle to achieve that," Mr. Pasha said. "Now we have the government, private industry and the community working together to try to address and make something good out of a situation that was originally not so good."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The vendors say relocation has cut their numbers and their profits. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Chart:"TIMELINE: On the Street"
1960's -- A vendors' market springs up on 125th Street, primarily between Lenox and Eighth Avenues.
1980's to early 1990's -- On peak days, up to 1,000 vendors sell their wares on 125th Street.
April 1993 -- Dozens of vendors on 125th Street demonstrate against Mayor David Dinkins's plan to step up regulation of unauthorized vendors. The plan is called off.
May 1994 -- The Giuliani administration announces a crackdown on vendors.
Oct. 17, 1994 -- Hundreds of police officers clear out the 125th Street vendors. About 150 people demonstrate; 22 are arrested.
Fall 1994 -- The city moves the vendors to a spot on Lenox Avenue between 116th and 117th Streets.
October 1998 -- As many as 120 vendors at the Lenox Avenue market form the Harlem Vendors Association.
November 1998 -- The city moves the vendors again, to a lot at 116th Street and Fifth Avenue.
December 1998 -- Construction begins on a permanent vendor home, at 116th Street between Lenox and Fifth.
April 1999 -- Anticipated opening of the new site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SENEGAL (92%); MALI (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MALCOLM SHABAZZ DEVELOPMENT CORP HARLEM VENDORS ASSOCIATION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MALCOLM SHABAZZ DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); SENEGAL (92%); MALI (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RELIGION (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (71%); CITIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



631 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
A Price Not Paid in Money

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
A FEW years ago, my wife, Christine, and some colleagues had an emergency at work. One man suggested an outrageously expensive solution. My wife said that there must be a cheaper way. He shook his head, saying, "Money is cheap; it's time that's expensive."
Which means most of us are very poor. If anything is universal among the butchers, bakers and automobile makers, it is that they are all spending incredible amounts of time at work, which is leaving everyone with little for the things that really count. 
 It seems as if everyone is working hard to pay for a house in a neighborhood with good schools, a comfortable life and then college for the children. So we're not getting home for dinner, sometimes not for the kids' bedtime. Then they see us with a cup of coffee in the morning, and we're out the door again.
Time isn't just expensive; it has become priceless. So we ask a question with no easy answer: What is more valuable to us and to our children's development? The money we earn from working so much, money we hope will get them through a private university? Or would they be better off growing up with less, but with parents who were home more?
"That is a critically important question, said Ellen Galinsky, president of the Families and Work Institute in Manhattan. "We should not have to wait until we have a critical illness or a life-altering event to ask if we are living life to its fullest."
When I have to teach my grade-school daughter, Marian, how to send a fax to my office so I can help her with math homework, it's a good time to reassess.
EVERY parent I know frets about this issue. But most, like me, do little about it, because our economic responsibilities are so daunting. Some companies have shortened the work week to allow more family time, but such moves are rare and not always popular. The Kellogg Company was a pioneer of the shorter work week in the 1930's, but according to Benjamin Hunnicutt, a historian at the University of Iowa who wrote "Kellogg's Six-Hour Day (Temple University Press, 1996), the company abandoned it in 1985. "The men, especially, wanted the longer week," he said. "They would rather go to the plant than go home. Work was their identity."
Juliet B. Schor, the Harvard economist who wrote "The Overspent American," says she understands why parents want to work so hard. Poor parents can improve their children's lives once they can afford better neighborhoods. And just about every parent wants to give the children the educational tools to compete. "If you have a view of the world that only the top third of the population is going to get a good job, you can see why families are making sure their children are in the top third," she said. "It's a highly competitive economy."
But as we work harder, we also spend more. Here, she said, we may be making the wrong choice.
"Consumption norms have increased pretty dramatically the last 15 to 20 years," she said. "Part of that has to do with the kind of things that people are providing for their children" -- like bigger homes, travel and more consumer goods. "As a society, it would be better to work less and spend more time connecting socially."
Mr. Hunnicutt said that during this century, the reasons we work have changed. We're not working just for necessities anymore. For many, he says, work has replaced religion in providing meaning in life. "We are now getting beyond economics," he said. "The thought was that as we got enough, instead of larger houses and more things to eat, we would turn to those freer parts of our life, such as the family and the community. That hasn't happened. We are left with empty front porches. We had living rooms where families talked. Now we have television."
Ms. Schor points to a 1995 study by one of her students, showing that the less time parents spent with their children, the more they spent to buy them items like videos and toys. The more time, the less money. Absent parents felt guilty, the student concluded.
Ms. Schor said these parents are on a dangerous course. "We have to ask ourselves, as a society, 'Do we want to be substituting a video for ourselves?' " she said. "Do we think that is a good trade-off?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Joel Priddy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (81%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (81%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (81%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); HOMEWORK (74%); HISTORY (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (69%); AUTOMAKERS (56%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



632 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
An Ocean Of Little Fish Worth Swallowing

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
INSURANCE is like broccoli. It's good for you, but many people find it bland.
Still, lots of savvy investors are piling insurance company stocks into their portfolios as the number of companies peddling the stuff shrinks. Last year was a record for insurance company mergers, according to Securities Data, a Newark, N.J., research firm, with more than $100 billion of transactions completed worldwide. 
 According to the experts, that trend is almost certain to continue. Michael Frinquelli, a partner at Renaissance Fund Advisors, a New York investment fund that focuses on companies that stand to benefit from consolidation in the industry, took time last week to look at the dealing, and at who might be next.
 
Q. People justify banking mergers by saying there are too many banks. Are there too many insurance companies?
 
A. Yes. There are roughly 7,000 licenses to sell one form or another of insurance in this country. About half of these licensees are active, operating companies. But the economics favor the biggest companies.
Let's take auto insurance as an example. Five companies control 60 percent of the business. Then you have another 2,000 or so that are fighting for the other 40 percent. Slowly but inevitably the rest has been going to the top five, largely because auto insurance is a business of scale, and the big companies have lower expense ratios.
 
Q. Cost-cutting is a mantra that is recited by managements in many industries. Why is it so important in insurance?
 
A. In property and casualty insurance, the business is simply not growing. The absence of inflation has reduced the need for insurance. When home values go up, you are insuring the value of the house. But when that stops happening, the cost of insurance, or total premiums being brought in, is not going to go up. From the mid-1960's to the mid-1980's premiums grew about 9 percent a year. In the 1990's, it has been about 3 percent a year.
In life insurance, the important thing is how do you sell the product. Years ago, life insurance was sold through captive agents. But now, life insurance is as much about selling a retirement savings vehicle as it is death protection. With the aging of the country, there is more interest in saving for retirement than protecting the family.
In effect, that means you are competing with mutual funds as much as other insurance companies.
 
Q. If banks have their way, they will be able to sell insurance, too. If Congress goes along, what sort of impact will that have on the industry?
 
A. The proposed changes in bank legislation have more to do with life insurance than property and casualty insurance. If the legislation ever gets through Congress, there will be major events in the life insurance business in the year 2000 and beyond.
I think banks will fall all over themselves to buy life insurance companies. But I don't think they will be interested in property and casualty companies, because it isn't a very attractive business.
In property and casualty, you have to be willing to say no. And if you say no to someone on auto insurance, for example, then you might lose other business.
 
Q. How many more acquisitions will there be? And which companies have developed the best acquisition strategies?
 
A. There may be another dozen combinations among the big companies. But there are a whole slew of smaller companies just waiting to get picked off. There are literally hundreds of those that will be acquired over the next three to five years.
As far as who is being smart about what they are buying, two Bermuda-based companies, Exel and Ace Limited, have come up with good acquisition strategies that add to earnings immediately and add to their distribution or product platforms either in the United States or globally. Shares of both companies trade here.
American International Group hasn't done much by way of acquisitions, but what they have done is brilliant. Their purchase of SunAmerica was expensive, but it gave them a door into the retirement savings business in the States. But because they are global, it allows them to introduce SunAmerica's products to the rest of the world.
 
Q. Are there other companies that you expect will be active acquirers?
 
A. The other two I would mention are All-State and Hartford Financial Services. To date, AllState has done nothing in the acquisition area, and Hartford relatively little. But we keep waiting.
 
Q. How about targets in the insurance brokerage or reinsurance businesses?
 
A. Aon is a pure insurance brokerage play. Marsh & McLennan has Putnam Investments, so it does more than just brokerage. But reinsurance would be a lovely business for banks to get into: Everest Re is the most obvious candidate left.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frinquelli

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: RENSAISSANCE FUND ADVISERS

ORGANIZATION: RENSAISSANCE FUND ADVISERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS MERGERS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); CAPTIVE INSURANCE (74%); BANKING LAW (74%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (74%); BONDS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (65%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; FRINQUELLI, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



633 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: The World: One Foot in Washington;
Britain's in Europe, Sort of

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
MOST dramas have their sub-plots, and the talks that stalled last week over Yugoslavia's torn province of Kosovo were no exception. While the big theme was war and peace in the Balkans, a lesser-noted coda was the complicated bond between Prime Minister Tony Blair's Britain and continental Europe that, just weeks ago, promised a new hope of containing conflagration on the continent's doorstep.
Britain, of course, has always been an ambivalent European, seeking to mold the continent's affairs -- often from the sidelines -- even as it holds onto a special relationship with Washington that long predates European integration. 
 At first glance, this dual vision seems seeded with conflict. But the course of the Kosovo talks may, in fact, have validated Mr. Blair's desire to keep his options open as he tries to make the case that Britain is a major player.
The suspension of the negotiations on Kosovo until March 15 was first of all a severe blow to the prestige of the American Secretary of State, Madeleine K. Albright, who placed her influence on the line for three straight days in a vain attempt to emulate the American diplomatic success at Dayton, Ohio, that ended the Bosnian war.
But her very presence at the negotiations -- and the use of the threat of American-led NATO bombing to get the talks started -- illuminated another reality. Once again, the Americans had taken a leading role in the negotiations because Europeans, acting by themselves, could not do it on their own.
Nobody ever envisioned such talks without the Americans, but their dominant role at the end was not in the original script, certainly not as seen from here.
The negotiations began under the joint sponsorship of France and Britain -- the two countries that would provide the bulk of a NATO-led ground force (along with American, Russian and other troops) to police a peace settlement. The French and British readiness to commit those forces was seen here as a token not just of Europe's frustration at past American diplomatic high-handedness in the Balkans, but also of a desire to make a new start after the tragic blunders of the recent past.
"This time we are seeing a greater effort by the Europeans to see that they get it right and do not leave it all to the Americans," Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform, a research group regarded as close to Mr. Blair's New Labor Government, said as the talks got under way. That in itself was a departure from the earlier days of European embroilment in the breakup of Yugoslavia, when Germany was singled out for its diplomatic clumsiness and Dutch troops under the United Nations flag stood by at the massacre at Srebrenica.
More important, this new sense of joint European endeavor was being ignited just weeks after 11 European nations (including France, but not Britain) launched their single currency, the euro. This accomplishment had challenged Britain to rethink its relationships to the Continent.
Only last week, Mr. Blair nudged his country closer to eventual adoption of the euro by setting out a tentative schedule for joining. But he hedged his plan with so many economic and political caveats that, even if Britons do overcome their aversion to abandoning the cherished pound, their country almost certainly would be the last of the four hold-outs to enter the euro-zone.
The broader implications of that hesitancy had long been apparent to Mr. Blair. As the advent of the new currency approached, he sensed that Britain might wind up on the sidelines. But he had an alternative strategy: to emphasize Britain's military and diplomatic leadership, building on what Britain sees as a privileged position in Washington that enhances its ability to mold Europe's destiny.
THAT was one element in the decision to offer a new European initiative in the Balkans. When Mr. Blair traveled to the French town of St. Malo late last year to meet Lionel Jospin, his French counterpart, he was "frustrated that the Americans were running the show on Kosovo and the Europeans were not," said Mr. Grant. The result was the so-called "St. Malo initiative" -- an effort to forge a common European defense policy.
But now, a French diplomat remarked the other day, it seems that the initiative's first tests came a little too soon. Not only did the Americans turn out to have played a larger role than anticipated in the Kosovo talks, but Britain made it abundantly clear that its European commitment was intended to complement, not replace, the time-tested ties to Washington that some British critics depict as a slavish readiness to do Uncle Sam's bidding.
Alone among its supposed European partners, Britain sent its warplanes to bomb Iraq last December, while the rest of Europe -- France in particular -- looked on disapprovingly. And while Mr. Blair and Mr. Jospin foresaw the creation of a pan-European defense industry as part of their initiative, two of Britain's biggest defense contractors went their own way last month, announcing a merger that left potential French and German suitors smarting.
As ever, Britain seems to be carving out its own role -- European by trade and geography, but not in its soul, an island only 22 miles from France that feels closer in strategic and economic philosophy to the United States.
"There are fundamental political and historical differences in the perception of security" separating Britain and its European partners, said Col. Terence Taylor of the International Institute for Strategic Studies. "And because of these fundamental differences, Britain can stand with the United States where others cannot."
Indeed, after last month's British defense merger, Josef Joffe, a German newspaper columnist in Munich, remarked that the deal "will keep Britain going as a global player, which in some respects is more important than being a European power."
"Europe is doing well on economic integration, but it will not be a strategic partner for some time to come," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American B-52 arrives in Britain as NATO prepares for possible raids on Serbia. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GENOCIDE (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); COWELL, ALAN TONY BLAIR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



634 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE;
Broadway Stores' Revolving Doors

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
A few years ago, the west side of Broadway between 105th and 106th Streets resembled Swing Street, with two popular jazz bars, Birdland and Augie's. But Birdland moved to West 44th Street in 1997, and Augie's closed last August. Meanwhile, the small shops on the east side of Broadway continued to bustle with customers.
Last month, Tofu, the large Chinese and Japanese restaurant that had replaced Birdland, closed, and Chase Bank moved out of its large storefront on the northeast corner of Broadway and 106th Street. Several local business owners wondered if franchise stores would ride the winds of change into the area, as they have on most nearby blocks of Broadway. "Once the franchises invade, landlords will think it's open season, and rents will go up too much and endanger us," said Gerry M. Wendrovsky, a lawyer with a narrow storefront office next to where Augie's had been. 
 John Alvarez, a manager for 32 years at Riverside Liquors, opposite the shuttered Tofu, voiced the same fear. "It's just a matter of time before they come," he said. "Knowing your landlord used to mean you were safe, but the big money will win out."
Yes and no, at least so far. Duane Reade does plan to open a large branch at the Chase site, said an official at Stahl Real Estate, which owns the building. And a branch of Software Etc. recently opened next store. On the west side of Broadway, though, owners have kept rent increases minimal and renewed leases of smaller tenants.
The Birdland/Tofu site has been leased for 15 years by the Lusardi Group, which owns several Upper East Side restaurants, said Burt Wallack, president of Wallack Management, which manages the building. Lusardi plans to open an upscale Italian restaurant after a $1 million renovation, he said.
Augie's former manager, Paul Steche, said he had signed a long-term lease and would reopen the bar by the end of March. Osvaldo Rosado, the property manager for that and two small storefronts south of it, said he wanted to keep small businesses in those spaces. The neighborhood is diverse, and many working-class Hispanic families live east of Broadway, with wealthier residents in large apartments along West End Avenue and Riverside Drive.
The executive director of the West Side Chamber of Commerce, Andrew Albert, saw the recent flurry of economic activity on the block as an uptown expansion of Broadway's current prosperity past 96th Street. "That was a forgotten area for a while," he said, "but Broadway is really hot right now, and it's spilling over."
Mr. Wendrovsky said that while local landlords want to maintain the character of the block, "there's also a financial incentive to keep rents slightly lower, because they know the local shopkeepers will pay the rent regularly and on time, whereas, with franchise clients, they can wind up with a dispossess in the commercial part of housing court." COREY KILGANNON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A former manager of Augie's plans to reopen the jazz bar by the end of March. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEST SIDE GRAIN SALES CORP (92%); WEST SIDE LAND INC (92%); WEST SIDE UNLIMITED CORP (92%); WEST SIDE LEASING INC (92%); WEST SIDE TRACTOR SALES INC (92%); WEST SIDE SALVAGE INC (92%); WEST SIDE DISTRIBUTORS LTD (92%); WEST SIDE INVESTORS INC (92%); WEST SIDE TRANSPORT INC (92%); CHASE BANK KENYA LTD (57%); LUSARDI GROUP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUSARDI GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING; FRANCHISES FRANCHISING (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); BANK BRANCHES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY GERRY M WENDROVSKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



635 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Savoring The Spice Of Urban Life

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THIRTY years ago, Erba Food Products was struggling to get by, making kosher specialties in a tiny 2,000-square-foot factory within earshot of Yankee Stadium, and its prospects looked as limited as its market, New York's dwindling population of observant German Jews.
Today, Erba is booming. In its 75,000-square-foot plant in the Canarsie district of Brooklyn, the company's 100-odd employees pack kosher products from wines to soups to salsas and barbecue sauces, half for the New York area and half for beyond. 
 Erba's success is no fluke. Other kinds of manufacturers have been fleeing cities like New York for decades, chasing lower costs, lower taxes, lighter regulation and ample elbow room in the suburbs or the Sun Belt. But in one industrial niche, specialty foods, urban cores have been incubators for entrepreneurial companies. With their trend-setting, culturally diverse populations, the cities help such companies thrive.
"If you want to change something, you need to be close to a large market, so you can understand the potential," said William Max Bauer, Erba's chief executive.
Buoyed lately by the immigration of observant Jews and a renewal of many secular Jews' interest in cultural traditions, New York remains the country's largest market for kosher food. But it is also home to dozens of other ethnic and cultural niche markets. Specialty food makers of all kinds employ more than 20,000 people in the city.
MUCH of the growth in the food market, particularly for newer companies, is in items at the luxury end of the spectrum. For example, cities like San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York, with their large populations of sophisticated consumers, have nurtured a new breed of fancy baked-goods companies known as artisan bakeries.
One such business, the Tom Cat Bakery of New York, supplies handmade bread to more than 400 restaurants in Manhattan. It sees a growing national market for artisan bakeries' products, but says an urban home is a vital launching pad.
"You need a market that values the taste," said Noel Comess, Tom Cat's president. Formerly a chef at the Quilted Giraffe restaurant, Mr. Comess now oversees 140 workers at a sprawling plant in Long Island City, Queens, just across the East River from Manhattan.
"The taste that goes out the door here has a big market in New York," he said. "People here will pay for a better bread, just like they'll pay for a finer bottle of wine."
But many of the most successful specialty foods come from city neighborhoods. Tower Isles Frozen Foods produces Jamaican meat pies in East New York, Brooklyn. Started in the 1960's by two immigrants from Jamaica, Earl and Beryl Levi, Tower Isles has flourished, first with the growth of New York's English-speaking Caribbean population, and later as their products caught on with other New Yorkers.
Another important advantage of big old cities is their marketing channels. Tower Isles began by selling through a network of small groceries owned by Jamaican immigrants, and later branched out to New York's ubiquitous pizzerias. Such tactics, of course, require independent and ethnic stores, and don't work as well in places dominated by chains, said Grover Nichols, Tower Isles' production and sales manager. "It's hard to get your product sold through McDonald's," Mr. Nichols said.
SIMILAR stories are heard around the country. Large-scale immigration from Southeast Asia has turned Houston, better known for its ribs and Tex-Mex cuisine, into a major production center for egg rolls, fortune cookies and Vietnamese specialties.
Los Angeles, where drive-through hamburger joints once set the culinary pace, has seen an explosion of various kinds of specialty food manufacturing. Asian immigration has played a big role: Scores of companies making breads, pastries, tofu and noodles have cropped up to serve California's growing Thai, Vietnamese, Chinese, Cambodian and Filipino communities.
But much of the action in the Los Angeles area is in Mexican foods, exemplified by young companies like El Burrito, which makes vegeterian chorizo sausage and salsa, and growth spurts by longer-established companies like Juanita's Mexican Foods. Begun as a fish processor in the 1940's, Juanita's switched to making menudo, a traditional Mexican tripe soup, and later added sauces.
"The market was here," said George de la Torre, Juanita's president and the son of its founder. "Los Angeles is the biggest Mexican city in the world after Mexico City. You couldn't find a better place for selling Mexican food." It has also made a good base for expansion: A decade ago, five-sixths of Juanita's sales came from California, but today 40 percent of the company's $30 million in annual sales are in out-of-state markets like Phoenix, Denver and Chicago.
Erba, too, has built a wide-ranging business on its local base. Much of the company's sales growth now is overseas, not only in Israel but also in France, Belgium and Britain, where both Jewish and Muslim consumers buy its products.
Erba's export successes arose directly from its urban experiences. "We started noticing that Muslims in New York were shopping in the kosher markets and kosher aisles of supermarkets," Mr. Bauer said. "So when we went abroad, we found Muslims there to buy our product. We knew from New York what works."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Erba Food Products of Brooklyn, which is enjoying a renaissance in demand for its kosher products, is one of many specialty food manufacturers thriving in urban areas nationwide. William Max Bauer, right, Erba's chief executive, met with his son William. (Michelle Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ERBA FOOD PRODUCTS SUN BELT RENTALS (56%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERBA FOOD PRODUCTS NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; KOSHER FOODS; MINORITIES (US); URBAN AREAS FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); BAKERIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD MFG (78%); MAMMALS (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CITIES (74%); SUBURBS (74%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BAKED GOODS MFG (71%); IMMIGRATION (66%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL; BAUER, WILLIAM MAX

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



636 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Echoesof a Deflationary Boom

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve is worried about unleashing inflation. But makers of semiconductors and computers are in bitter pricing battles.
Unemployment is at historically low levels. But companies are aggressively seeking mergers so they can dismiss workers and keep costs low. 
 The economy is growing more quickly than anyone expected. But Wall Street is worried that corporate profits are not rising fast enough to justify current stock prices.
These peculiar relationships between the financial markets and the economy can be summed up using the Hopi Indian word "koyaanisqatsi," which means, roughly, "life out of balance."
"I believe the way the economy is being driven now is 180 degrees opposite from how it was driven for more than 40 years after the end of World War II," said James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "We are used to having excess demand and a shortage of goods, so whenever we had faster growth, we got rising inflation. Now, it's falling prices that are stimulating the economy. I call it a deflationary boom."
Last week, bond traders seemed to be following their instincts and the familiar rules. Signs that the economy was growing faster than expected led to fears of a revival of inflation. Traders sold bonds -- and yields, which move in the opposite direction from prices, rose to their highest level in six months.
Higher yields, in turn, are bad for stock prices, because investment managers who have been paying 70 times earnings for shares of a fast-growing technology company are more likely to weigh that relatively high valuation against the new, lower price -- and lower risk -- of bonds.
"If we get a couple more strong economic indicators coming out in the next few weeks, we could see long-term rates up close to 6 percent," said John Y. Kim, chief investment officer at Aeltus Investment Management, a subsidiary of Aetna Inc.'s Retirement Services unit. "That could cause real problems for the equity market, because that could cause asset allocators to edge out of equities and into bonds."
The equity market is probably not on the verge of collapse, but after a strong run in the first two months of the year, stock prices are stuck or declining. The price-to-earnings multiples that investors are willing to pay for fast-growing technology companies are falling. And until the Federal Reserve makes clear its intentions on interest rates, investment managers are likely to be more choosy about where they advocate putting the nation's retirement money.
Individual investors should take a similar look at their portfolios, which after the big run in equities over the last four years may be out of balance, too heavily tilted toward stocks.
A bigger portion of the financial assets of the nation's households is invested in stocks than at any time since the end of World War II, according to Federal Reserve statistics. And the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, reported last week that the portion of mutual fund assets invested in bond funds fell below 15 percent last month. That is a record low -- roughly one-third lower than the level of four years ago, just after the bond market rout of 1994 and just before the stock market began its upward march.
Vanguard Asset Allocation, which in the last five years has been one of the most successful mutual funds at divvying up money among stocks, bonds and cash, has 40 percent of its $7 billion in bonds, with the rest in stocks, Thomas F. Loeb, the fund's co-manager, said last week.
Mr. Paulsen said that now might be a time to err on the side of caution. "I'm very much a bond bull," he said. "My stance is to be much more diversified this year. And with bond yields at the high end of their recent range, bonds offer a good value again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Out of Whack?" shows percentage of mutual fund assets in bond funds and stock funds, from 1996 through 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (64%); AELTUS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MUTUAL FUNDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD JAMES PAULSEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



637 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A SurplusBuilt on Bricks Of Income Inequality

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
HAVING declared an era of budget surpluses, the Democrats and the Republicans are busy parceling out money that is not yet in hand. They spend it differently, of course. But they are twins in their confidence that a surplus, having finally materialized in 1998, will continue to do so for a decade.
What goes unmentioned is Wall Street. Bluntly put, if stock prices fall sharply, the budget surplus disappears. 
 That is an accurate reading of the Government's own numbers, minus a nuance: the surpluses are also a product of income inequality. Thanks mainly to the stock market windfall, the richest Americans -- the 1 percent of households with incomes of $200,000 a year or more -- now pocket a much greater share of the nation's total taxable earnings than they did in 1994. After all, they own a lot of stock. They also pay the highest income tax rates. So Federal tax revenues have risen by enough to put the budget in surplus.
It is true that the surplus would not have come to pass without all the governmental cost-cutting that started in the Reagan Administration and has continued through the Clinton years. The payroll tax has also played a role, bringing in more than enough revenue to pay Social Security benefits for the time being. But the $70 billion budget surplus that appeared last year -- the first overall surplus since 1969 -- would have been a deficit instead without the spectacular rise in stock prices.
"A significant amount of new tax revenue over the last three years is attributable to the exuberance of the stock market," said Robert D. Reischauer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
THE mechanics are straightforward. While nearly 50 percent of the population owns stocks, either directly or indirectly through retirement accounts, wealthy Americans hold the lion's share. These are the people whose taxable incomes are $200,000 a year or more, after subtracting deductions. They have sold huge quantities of ever-more-valuable stock in recent years and have cashed in hundreds of billions of dollars in stock options that corporate America awards to its executives -- options that are taxed as ordinary income. Cash bonuses, commissions and fees have also swelled their incomes.
These wealthy households accounted for only 111,000 of the 120 million income tax returns filed in 1996, the latest year for which complete figures are available. That is only one-tenth of 1 percent of the total. But this tiny group accounted for 18.1 percent of all the household income reported in 1996, up from 14.6 percent in 1994. And while the number of 1997 returns is not yet published, the income breakdowns have been.
The highest-earning Americans' share jumped again, to 19.9 percent. Since they have the highest tax rate, 39.6 percent on personal income, their share of all household income taxes paid in 1997 rose to 37.2 percent from 29.9 percent in 1994. Thanks mainly to this group's rising incomes, Federal tax revenues were roughly $100 billion greater last year than they would have been if there had been no change in that 29.9 percent share. Put another way, the $70 billion budget surplus would have been a $30 billion deficit instead.
MOST of these data are available in a report issued in late January by the Congressional Budget Office, whose managers are appointed by the Republican majority in Congress. The Clinton Administration nevertheless embraces the budget office's calculations and also an implicit budget office assumption: the surpluses will survive for the next decade even if stock prices rise no further than they are now, but they will disappear if the market drops sharply.
That puts the budget surpluses on rather shaky ground. Stock prices are clearly overvalued, and perhaps in bubble territory, vulnerable to a collapse that would bring the budget surpluses down with them. Why is that so rarely mentioned?
There are reasons, of course. The Republicans, pushing for tax cuts, cite the budget surpluses as justification for collecting less from the citizenry. Uncertain surpluses undercut their case. And the Clinton Administration, busy claiming credit for the surpluses, sees no political advantage in reminding people that the money could disappear.
WHAT reluctance, however, is giving way a bit. Rather than cut taxes, Administration officials propose to save the surplus, in order to reduce the national debt and pay for Social Security in the future. A surplus in danger of disappearing in a falling stock market becomes one more reason to save the money while it is still there to save.
Even those who lament income inequality have been largely silent about its link to the budget surplus. The strong economy has finally lifted low-end wages, making wage inequality less of a problem, a development that pleases Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. But he had not anticipated the setback that has come with an upward spurt in income inequality -- that is, wages plus other kinds of income. "We missed the stock options and capital gains," he said.
But income inequality, offspring now of the stock market, has acquired a certain respectability: the budget surpluses depend on it.
Or, as the Congressional Budget Office said in its January report, "The more unevenly income is distributed, the higher the effective tax rate will be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (59%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (70%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (70%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MILAN, ITALY (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BONDS (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



638 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Complacency About China Is Misplaced

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
LAST summer, when the Japanese yen plunged to more than 140 to the dollar, investors were worried that the weak yen would force the Chinese to devalue their currency, the yuan. And that, analysts said at the time, would send the Asian economies into yet another downward spiral.
Well, China did not devalue. The yen did an about-face, rising 29 percent in two months. And when Brazil devalued its currency in January, China moved to quash any new investor tremors by reassuring the world, again, that it would not follow suit. 
 But this does not mean that investors can take China off their early-warning screen. In fact, there may be more reasons to be worried about China -- and its potential impact on global financial markets -- now than there were last summer.
The news from China is not positive at all, even if it is not making waves. The economy is slowing, analysts say, pointing to indicators like slow growth in electricity consumption, falling exports and declining growth in retail sales. Analysts don't believe China's report that its economy grew 7.8 percent last year. "That is not even close," said Nicholas R. Lardy, a China economic specialist and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
At the same time, foreign investment in the form of loans, bonds and stock sales seems to be declining, with much of the decrease following the closing in October of a big nonbank financial institution, the Guangdong International Trust and Investment Corporation, or Gitic. It has since formally gone bankrupt, and other trust and investment companies have also rolled over. More failures are expected.
The way China handled the collapse of Gitic "is going to have long-term consequences," Mr. Lardy said, adding that "the environment has never been worse for China in the raising of capital in foreign markets." He thinks foreign bank loans are down sharply from their $59 billion total in June 1998, the most recent data from the Bank for International Settlements.
The last few attempts at public stock offerings, including that of Shandong International Power Development, have been withdrawn. David Lee, the analyst for Asia at Fiduciary Trust International, a New York-based global fund manager and longtime investor in Hong Kong and China, said underwriters had invited him to a road show on Shandong, but he didn't bother to attend. "It wasn't worth our time to look into that deal," he said.
The bad news has not been enough to set investors trembling again. But the recent fall in the Japanese yen may reawaken concerns, even if the decline is not likely to be the catalyst for a devaluation.
Since its January high, the yen has dropped 9 percent, to 119 to the dollar. That is not the 140 of last summer. But the yen could return to that neighborhood if the Japanese take the steps that American officials are urging to stimulate their economy.
"If you get the yen weakening, China is going to come back into the picture," said Desmond Lachman, director of emerging-markets economic research at Salomon Smith Barney.
A weaker yen would make Chinese exports less competitive with those of Japan. But today, analysts do not think that such a competitive disadvantage would be painful enough to prompt a Chinese devaluation.
Instead, they think the catalyst would be a deterioration in China's balance of payments. Mr. Lardy argues that this deterioration could already be under way because of the loss of foreign credit and the slowdown in the Chinese economy. There are no data to prove that -- yet.
"I think they're going to be looking at devaluation much sooner than you'd expect, if there is a significant reduction in their ability to borrow from banks or to sell debt internationally," Mr. Lardy told a group of money managers recently.
It it worth noting that the governor of China's central bank, Dai Xianglong, did not rule out a currency devaluation when he sought to reassure the world and investors in January. The yuan, he said, will be devalued only "when there is a great imbalance in the balance of payments of China and there is a great increase in the cost of exports."
"But I do not think these conditions exist this year," he continued.
We'll see.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bad Tidings From China" shows yhe Hang Seng China Enterprises index of 41 Chinese state companies traded in Hong Kong has tumbled 37 percent since early November. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: SHANDONG INTERNATIONAL POWER DEVELOPMENT CO LTD (52%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (52%); FIDUCIARY TRUST INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); FIDUCIARY TRUST INTERNATIONAL OF THE SOUTH (52%); FIDUCIARY TRUST INTERNATIONAL OF CALIFORNIA (52%); FIDUCIARY TRUST INTERNATIONAL OF DELAWARE (52%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (92%); DEVALUATION (92%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (70%); RETAIL SALES (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN NICHOLAS R LARDY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



639 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2107 words

HEADLINE: It's a Global Mess. What's a World to Do?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE International Monetary Fund is often described these days as the rapid-response team for global financial crises, monitoring the financial health of 182 nations and flying teams of economists off to nurse stricken countries back to health before contagion spreads.
Just don't try calling the doctors on a weekend. 
 Four blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue from the fund's headquarters, the White House Situation Room hums 24 hours a day. So do the State Department's Operations Center and the Treasury's lesser-known Watch Office.
But 20 months into a worldwide financial crisis that churns round the clock, the I.M.F. still closes down on nights and weekends. Last year, one senior official of the fund recalled, "we had a desperate-sounding finance minister call in," seeking advice on a currency devaluation that might have shaken markets around the world. He reportedly had a pleasant chat with the security guard.
The story is worth remembering amid the grand political pronouncements -- here, in Europe and in Asia -- about the need to build a "new global financial architecture." The rhetoric has its appeal: Most everyone agrees that the system for governing the world economy that emerged from a hotel ballroom in Bretton Woods, N.H., a half-century ago -- in the era of the gold standard and fixed exchange rates -- is hopelessly outdated.
But there the agreement ends. Some say that what the world financial system needs is not a new design but better wiring, in the form of greater communication among investors, regulators, governments and international oversight agencies -- if not security guards with Ph.D.'s in international economics.
Over the last few months, a plethora of small-bore fixes have been proposed, everything from "exit taxes" to make investors think twice about bailing out of troubled markets to "early warning systems" to make them think twice about the stability of the countries where they invest.
Then there are far grander designs -- so many, in fact, that it might be possible to build another ballroom at the old Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods out of bound reports describing what a new financial system should look like.
In the last two months alone, the World Bank, the I.M.F. and the United Nations have all published analyses of what's gone wrong in global finance, each coming to different conclusions about responsibility for the continuing crisis.
The Council on Foreign Relations, the private public-policy group based New York, has put together a high-powered commission to propose an overhaul of the system. Its report will jockey for shelf space with similar proposals oozing out of a dozen other prominent research centers.
The Group of Seven industrialized nations couldn't wait for the council, so last weekend it announced the creation of a "Financial Stability Forum" to help bring order to the chaos. The idea is to begin to connect the wiring, providing a place for market regulators in many countries and the myriad international regulatory groups to talk about setting common standards for dealing with financial concerns.
To keep the forum "manageable," a G-7 statement explained, dozens of officials from each of the seven nations will be joined by no more than three members each from the I.M.F., the IBRD, the BIS and the OECD. Then, of course, "the international regulatory groupings (BCBS, IOSCO, IAIS) would be represented by two members each, and the CGFS and CPSS by one each."
(Readers interested in testing their knowledge of international organizations will find the acronyms decoded at the end of this article.)
The forum's first meeting is scheduled for next month.
What will change? The betting these days is not much. While some modest changes are already under way -- mostly tougher disclosure requirements for countries and their central banks -- a broad remaking of the system seems unlikely. President Clinton, who during the market swoon in September described the "new architecture" drive as a top priority of his second term, has spoken about it publicly only intermittently since December. And while the Treasury Department says long-term solutions will be the focus of the annual summit of G-7 leaders in early summer, skeptics abound.
"Crises are endemic to our system, and sometimes they are healthy," Kenneth Courtis, the chief economist for Deutsche Bank's Asian operations said recently. "But after every one, there is always talk about rebuilding the system, until the markets get better. Then people forget about it. I suspect the same will happen this time."
For now, though, here are the hottest ideas under discussion -- and the problems that plague them.
 
Tsunami Alerts
Imagine a Weather Channel for the global economy, a proposal being pushed by many European nations. If financial quakes loomed -- a devaluation in Brazil, export declines in China, more capital flight from South Africa or Indonesia -- the I.M.F. would broadcast the news. (It is already broadcasting summaries of its periodic reviews of member countries, with much of the information posted on its World Wide Web site, www.imf.org.) Sounds great: Tune in, then call your broker.
But there's a hitch. Weather satellites can pick up an approaching storm a lot better than experts can see a financial disaster ahead. There were plenty of warnings about Thailand in 1997, for example, but almost no one predicted a calamity.
"Nothing in my 26 years on Wall Street or my six years in government suggests that there is any predictive capability even remotely reliable enough for such a system," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said recently.
The I.M.F. notes that it often detects signs that a crisis is brewing, only to discover later that the crisis never arrives. "We've successfully predicted 14 of the past 6 financial crises," joked Stanley Fischer, the fund's No. 2 official.
Of course, when an alarm issued by the Weather Channel turns out to be false, everyone is relieved. But an alarm from the I.M.F. could easily set off a stampede of investors -- creating exactly the kind of panic everyone is trying to avoid.
 
Tollbooths on the Highway
The experts call them "capital controls" -- limits, or taxes, on short-term investment money that flows in or out of small nations.
The appeal is simple: If investors know that that their money will be tied up in Malaysia or Mozambique for some time, or that it will cost them a few percentage points to get it out early, they will think twice about rushing "hot money" into an economy that could be destabilized by a sudden, huge outflow of cash.
Not surprisingly, politicians love this idea. And everyone points to Chile, which taxed short-term capital until recently, when investment dried up for all emerging markets.
And there's the rub. As Malaysia learned when it banned trading in its currency, capital controls are a great way to regain sovereignty over an economy. But after a while, investors begin thinking about putting their money elsewhere -- in countries that don't tax capital.
In short, the country that sets up a tollbooth can expect to see fewer and fewer cars on the highway. And that means the country could go begging for foreign investment. Or it might use the existence of the tax as an excuse not to change its economy.
 
Promises, Promises
One lesson of the last two years is that bad things can happen to good economies.
South Korea, for example, clearly has the talent and the means to rank among the world's best economies. But when it nearly ran out of central bank reserves in 1997, investors panicked and the currency melted down.
To avert such panics, the I.M.F. and some economists have suggested that countries could be "prequalified" for emergency aid, in the hope that the mere existence of a big credit line would reassure investors. It would be a little like getting one of those letters from a credit card company offering a $10,000 credit line -- just in case you come up short one month on the mortgage.
That was essentially the deal the I.M.F. and the Treasury offered to Brazil last year, when it described a $41 billion bailout as "precautionary." Unfortunately, that package failed to prevent a run on the currency, the real, illustrating one of the shortcomings of such aid.
Brazil received the aid in return for detailed promises to tighten its belt, and fast. But once the deal was announced, the Brazilian Congress concluded that the heat was off and there was no rush about the reforms. It took investors only two months, until January, to conclude that the reforms might be vapor, at which point they fled.
What can the I.M.F. do if a country fails to deliver on its promises?
In an extreme case, as in Russia, it can stop lending altogether. But un-qualifying a country is essentially an invitation for the world to pull its money out, creating the crisis the aid was intended to avoid.
 
Aim at That Target
The Germans, with some support from France and Japan, want an agreement to establish "target zones" that would reduce the volatility of the world's three major currencies: the dollar, the euro and the yen. Under this plan, the major economies would coordinate their policies to keep their currencies within a specified trading range.
Mr. Rubin thinks this is one of the worst ideas he has ever heard.
Europe's enthusiasm for managing currencies is understandable. Its leaders want to make sure the United States doesn't let the value of the dollar slip in order to make American exports, which are declining sharply, more competitive against European products.
Washington, of course, does not want a committee of the Group of Seven dictating American monetary policy. Suppose the United States economy began sinking, and the value of the dollar sank with it. The Group of Seven might mandate that the United States raise interest rates to stabilize the currency. That could worsen the economic downturn.
Smaller economies also have a dog in this fight. Remember, Thailand got in trouble because it tied its currency, the baht, to the dollar. As the value of the dollar rose, so did the value of the baht, until it quickly became unsustainably high. And when Thailand de-linked its currency from the dollar -- well, that was the day the Asian crisis started.
 
Start Bailing
When a country begins to list, investors bail out. So beginning with the effort to save South Korea, the Treasury has talked about "bailing in" investors.
What American officials mean is that big banks and other lenders should be compelled to take responsibility for having provided countries with the money they used so foolishly. For example, the lenders might be obliged to roll over their loans or turn short-term lending into long-term lending, rather than head for the exits. When South Korea was teetering, Mr. Rubin strong-armed some lenders to do just that.
But since then, the enthusiasm for "bailing in" has been tempered by reality. Bankers have begun to warn that if the risk of lending to emerging markets climbs too high, either they will charge the riskiest countries the highest interest rates (to compensate for the possibility that they will one day be "bailed in") or they will avoid them completely. A result is that the developing world may not develop very fast.
 
Swinging a Baton
Barry Eichengreen, an international economist at the University of California at Berkeley, says the I.M.F. "will have to become less of a fireman and more of a policeman."
In a new book, "Toward a New International Financial Architecture" (Institute for International Economics, 1999), he explained that rather than roaring to the rescue once disaster strikes, the fund should be constantly policing compliance with international rules and regulations -- and making sure that the markets understand who is abiding by the rules and who is not.
But that would require a change of culture at the I.M.F., which has often been beholden to its members, including the rule breakers. Fund officials would have to be willing to utter unpleasant news, in strong terms.
And they might need to answer their phones on the weekends.
The acronyms: IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, better known as the World Bank; BIS Bank for International Settlements; OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; BCBS Basle Committee on Banking Supervision; IOSCO International Organization of Securities Commissions; IAIS International Association of Insurance Supervisors; CGFS Committee on the Global Financial System; CPSS Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Illustrations (Chris Murphy)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); DEVALUATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



640 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
When Money's a Mantra Greed's a New Creed

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
HOLLY stays conservative," reads the Charles Schwab ad featuring real customers and their stock portfolios. "Howard makes a move."
So what if Holly, identified as a part-time teacher who also teaches investing to her daughter's fifth-grade class, shows $6,560.71 in her account and Howard shows $2,438,665.95? They are both in the game, both part of a profound transformation in American life -- the way the aspirations, fears and machinations of the world of finance, once the province of the wealthy few, have become indelibly interwoven into mainstream culture. 
 As Washington's noisy sideshow fades, millions of Americans are refocusing on the thing that most defines their lives, the upward and downward ticks of interest rates, the gyrations of their mutual funds, the achingly palpable lure and temptations of wealth. What this is doing to the country -- from money to values -- is one of the most intriguing questions about American life at the century's end.
"Greed is not a new thing," said Roger Shinn, a professor emeritus of social ethics at the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, who has also taught business ethics at New York University. "But I think the present situation is different in many respects. Money is less tangible. It used to be property or gold. Now it's a blip on your computer screen. It appears and disappears. It becomes more a way to keep score, more a game in its own right, the way athletes compete with each other to make the most millions, when each additional million can't possibly matter to the way they live."
Until recently, true wealth for most Americans seemed as distant as Bombay.
Now, a stroll through any bookstore gives a crash course on what they want, whether it is "Simple Abundance" or "More Than Enough" or "How to Retire Rich." They know that "It Takes Money, Honey." They want to be "The Millionaire Next Door." They read Money and, to be safe, Smart Money, too.
THE lure of wealth is as old as the Bible. And from the robber barons of the 19th century to the Wall Street tycoons of the 1980's, striking it rich has been part of the American myth. But, in at least four ways, money is woven into the fabric of daily life today in a way it never was in the past:
First is the aging of 78 million baby boomers, whose needs, wants and fears dominate American culture. Faced with looming financial needs for their children's college and their own retirement, many find themselves confronting the kind of saving and investment they had neglected.
Second is the relentless march of the bull market, which has made millions wealthy and millions more think they should be.
Third is the credit revolution, with more tempting cards arriving in the mail every day, which has made it possible for people without money to spend and live like the rich.
Fourth is the way marketing suffuses the culture from the toy-of-the-moment on Saturday-morning cartoons to the disparate images of seniors as either on-the-go consumers or near invalids.
For many Americans, of course, the goal is getting by, not getting rich. Robert H. Frank, a Cornell University economist and author of "Luxury Fever" (The Free Press, 1999), says half of the respondents in a recent survey reported life savings of less than $3,000 and another 40 percent said it would be "a big problem" if they had to deal with an unexpected bill for $1,000. Meanwhile, more than 35 million Americans, or 13.3 percent, live in poverty.
But almost half of American households now own stock either directly or through pension or retirement plans, compared to less than a third at the beginning of the decade and less than 1 in 10 in the 1960's . This comes at a time when a hot stock like Dell Computer can rise by 4,200 percent in three years and then lose nearly 20 percent of its value in four days as it did earlier this month, making the riches and risks of the market gut-wrenchingly immediate.
Before the current bull market, who could have imagined that newsstands would feature a gaggle of glossy magazines with cover articles trumpeting one or another Ultimate Mutual Fund Guide, as if the subject has the sex appeal of supermodels in bikinis on Polynesian beaches.
The new crop of financial books blends the language of money with the spirit of the human potential movement. "I have come to think that money is very much like a person," writes Suze Orman in "The 9 Steps to Financial Freedom" (Crown Publishers, 1997), "and it will respond when you treat it as a cherished friend -- never fearing it, pushing it away, pretending it doesn't exist or turning away from its needs, never clutching it so hard that it hurts."
"The Millionaire Next Door," by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Longstreet Press, 1996), has been on the best-seller list since January 1997, with its comforting message that the rich are just like the rest of us, only cheaper.
DAVE Ramsey, who has a syndicated financial counseling show on 44 radio stations, mostly in small and medium-sized markets outside the Northeast, mixes biblical proverbs and self-help in his "More Than Enough: Proven Keys to Strengthening Your Family and Building Financial Peace" (Viking, 1999), which begins with a woman sobbing at her "point of rebirth" as she comes to terms with her attitudes toward money.
"The spiritual aspect of personal finance, learning to control the guy in the mirror, is more important than doing the math," he said.
Still, the focus on finance is pulling Americans in opposite directions. On the one hand, there have never been so many temptations to spend. As a result, nearly 20 percent of American households have more debt than assets. When real estate is factored out, the bottom 40 percent of Americans have more debt than assets.
On the other hand, books like "The Millionaire Next Door," or the success of Warren Buffett's plain-folks investing and personal style are creating at least talk of a new ethic of frugality.
"I have a lawyer friend who says, 'Why would anyone want to spend money when it's so much more fun to count it,' " said Shad Rowe, who heads an investment firm in Dallas. "Warren Buffett has made it respectable to be a miser again."
Ritchie Lowry, a Boston College sociologist and longtime advocate of socially responsible investing, said the focus on wealth primarily reflects fears that the current prosperity will not last. With 24 percent of household wealth now invested in stocks, up from 10 percent at the time of the 1987 crash, Americans may be right to feel financially vulnerable.
But others say that prosperity and the current vogue for finance has its perils, too.
John Maynard Keynes once looked forward to an era when the task would be managing prosperity "which science and compound interest will have won" to live wisely and well. In that era, he said, excessive lust for money would be seen as "a somewhat disgusting morbidity."
That may come to pass, and the current prosperity has its inspirational tales, like the example of Donald and Mildred Othmer, who lived quietly in Brooklyn, and after investing with Mr. Buffett left behind three quarters of a billion dollars for favored universities and charities.
But Mr. Shinn said American culture has always been wildly conflicted about wealth, particularly when great affluence coexists with bruising poverty.
"The Bible is full of condemnations of wealth in the face of poverty," he said. "In Jesus and the Prophets and elsewhere there's a bias in favor of the poor. There's the Sermon on the Mount. Luke said: 'Blessed are you, poor. Woe unto you that are rich.' The Catholic Popes call this the epistemological privilege of the poor, that the poor are spared the arrogance that comes with wealth and power. So we're very mixed up on this. We're uneasy about wealth. But we're sure getting over the unease in a hurry."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From the street, in this case Times Square, the bulls beckon. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); RELIGION (87%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHICS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); BUSINESS ETHICS (66%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER CHARLES R SCHWAB (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



641 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Over Time;
The End Was a Mirage. The Scandal Lives On.

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
MERCIFULLY, the impeachment vote was at hand, acquittal was already a certainty, and that new thing with feathers, "closure," seemed a cheery possibility for the nation. Yet in the final hours of the Senate's trial of President Clinton, Republicans were still proposing more subjects for investigation. Rumors of Presidential tape recordings were gravely cited along with an 11th-hour affidavit from a reporter allowed to intrude Pirandello-like into the story. "We don't want any grassy-knoll theories or dangling questions left in case someone like Oliver Stone ever tries to make a movie about this," a ranking Republican staffer explained straight-faced in announcing fresh kindling for the 13-month-long conflagration.
Whether it be set in Oliver Stone's Amerika or the Marx Brothers' Freedonia, the very idea of remilking the mass entertainment aspect of the
debilitating Clinton-Lewinsky-Starr saga seemed the year's ultimate obscenity. For, as the Senate prepared to vote, a stake-in-the-heart ending of the thing was at hand by all the Constitution's sacred writ and the public's smoldering indifference. 
 But no. Less than two weeks after his acquittal, President Clinton once more has had to gingerly decline elaboration on his latest flat denial of a Jane Doe story of sexual allegation flaring up from the oily residue of his impeachment struggle. What's more, scandal escapists should be warned that juicy bits from Monica Lewinsky's oath-free television interview with Barbara Walters -- a prelude to The Book -- have already been strategically leaked to stoke viewership for this week's next episode of a story most people claim to be sick of. And, lest justice not be endlessly served, ground rules are being negotiated for a new investigation, this time of the fairness of the investigation of the President's investigator, Kenneth W. Starr. And, of course, Mr. Starr will have an extra year's jurisdiction to investigate Mr. Clinton, private citizen, once he leaves office.
"It never ends," exults Matt Drudge, the Internet scandalmonger who served up the Lewinsky story and led America to its groaning board feast upon sex and mendacity. "I did hope the Senate would keep Clinton: I needed the hits."
And here we all are looking for something fresh and wholesome. President Clinton's Arbor Day speech, perhaps, or a regained perch on that bridge to the 21st century.
Rather, Webster Hubbell's next fraud trial by Mr. Starr's Whitewater -- remember Whitewater? -- prosecutors begins in late spring. And Hillary Rodham Clinton may be called as a witness, just when she's somehow tempted by the idea of electoral office in her own right as her husband's career slowly closes out. Closure? No, the story goes forward, by limp and squiggle. When all else fails, there's always nostalgia on CNBC and Fox-TV with nether-night reruns of the flinching Betty Currie footage, the beret rope-line tableau and, evermore, the wagging finger.
"What would it take to make it end?" Mark Russell, the capital's resident political humorist, asks of the scandal story. "Saddam Hussein at Camp David. Or John Doe No. 5. Fifteen percent unemployment by the Easter recess? Jane Doe Nos. 5 through 26 on '20-20.' " Mr. Russell pauses, as if at wit's end about it all. "How about at the Academy Awards Elia Kazan names Charlton Heston as a Communist?"
B UT it becomes harder to laugh at the story that wraps around itself, at "this daily mud-slide into the nation's living rooms," as David E. Bonior, the House Democratic whip, described it last fall. He failed to defeat impeachment, but he left a ringing question: "Do we really want two more years of Monica Lewinsky? Two more years of Linda Tripp?" That now seems an existential question. (The political comedian Al Franken comments, "I think the next phase of the story will be articles like yours.")
For sheer durability, the story is beginning to resemble a toxic waste dump of fetid ingredients and methane energies. The news media cannot afford not to see the story through. The President's enemies, naturally, stand ready to continue feeding the pile. And then there are the sorry deposits offered by President Clinton himself, whose search for historic legacy seems increasingly overwhelmed by vapors from the past.
Gamboling in the unsensational agenda of yore, House Democratic leader Richard A. Gephardt was fairly trilling his way last week through a masterful riff on the looming Social Security issue when he was suddenly asked, "What's your reaction to the Juanita Broaddrick allegations?" A heartfelt sigh was his purest reaction to the Jane Doe No. 5 story about the emergence of apparently unprovable rape charges against Mr. Clinton. "Boy, the frustration I sense out there among people about continuing all of this dialogue is palpable," Mr. Gephardt began, patiently observing what the nation now well knows, that the legal system has "all kinds of mechanisms" for dealing with this latest tangent in the unending story.
Optimists should note that House Republicans, the main force behind impeachment, are reported scandal weary. "There's a death rattle from a few people still calling my office, the kind who think the Clintons killed Vince Foster," said Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican who was inundated with critics' complaints two months ago when he opposed impeachment. "But there was silence -- not even a hint about the impeachment -- at this week's Republican conference," he related approvingly. "The specter's out there. But there's a feeling that maybe if we don't talk about it, it won't come back."
Some observers find the body politic scarred with media needle tracks. "It really is like a narcotic," says Bill Kovach, curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University. "You can't just go cold turkey if you're all-Monica, all-the-time." He finds the latest twist, the long-rumored rape allegation, troublesome because it reached mainline newspapers after the acquittal when the staunchly anti-Clinton Wall Street Journal editorial page provided an outlet. Such a polemical spark could muddy traditional journalism, Mr. Kovach worries.
To the contrary, one of the President's defenders from impeachment, Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat, sees progress in the Jane Doe postscript. "If Jane Doe 5 emerged a year ago, there would have been far wider acceptance," he says. "The Lewinsky experience has made the media more careful and people more skeptical."
Or maybe more inured, in the view of Mark Shields, a political analyst whose normal spirit of relishing knockabout politics is notably absent from this story that will not die. "I think this thing is going to be with us," he estimates, wary as a character in those movies about the hockey-mask fiend. "Maybe not in the sense of the consciousness of the country, of people talking about it. But it will manifest itself in what we look for in a potential President the next time -- someone with no surprises."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Pat Crowley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); SCANDALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WITNESSES (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); JURISDICTION (72%); ETHICS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CLINES, FRANCIS X BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARBARA WALTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



642 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Vice President For Siberia

 BODY:
Your boss offers you a promising new assignment with an exalted title, describing the job as a big step ahead. Your immediate response is to jump at the chance. But then -- maybe before taking the new job, maybe after -- you realize you are being moved over, not up. How did you discover that your promotion was no promotion? And what did you do next? Send your stories to On the Job, Money and Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Or send them by E-mail to onthejob@nytimes.com. Include your telephone number. All submissions become the property of The Times and may be republished in any medium. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



643 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
IN MY...CARRY-ON BAG/JAMES G. BERK

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT 

 BODY:
In traveling 200,000 air miles to 29 countries last year, James G. Berk, chief executive of Hard Rock Cafe International, has learned how to cram a lot into a carry-on bag. I have to be prepared for anything from an allergy attack to an attack of loneliness, said Mr. Berk, who lives in Orlando, Fla., where his company is based.
 To fend off loneliness, he carries pictures of his wife, Jane, and daughters, Ashley, 11, and Lauren, 8, as well as two phones, one for domestic and the other for international calls. The phones have automatic dialers programmed with the numbers of all of the company's 37 restaurants in the United States and 62 overseas, plus the home phone numbers of his top executives. 
 The allergies are tougher; he doesn't like prescription drugs and takes only Tylenol when they kick up. I don't fit the rock-and-roll drug thing, he said. His personal pharmacy also includes vitamin pills and melatonin, to help him sleep -- though he says it doesn't do much for him.
 The book he packs these days is Insights on Leadership, edited by Larry C. Spears (John Wiley & Sons, 1997), which is required reading in the Rock 202 course taken by standout Hard Rock employees after they graduate from Rock 101. Also in the bag is a card outlining the company's seven core values, including love all -- serve all and save the planet. Then there are the golden Elvis pins, awarded to employees for exemplary work and prized by collectors, who pay up to $800 for them.
 ROY FURCHGOTT
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos:
LAPTOP COMPUTER
He uses this mostly to answer his daily barrage of 100 E-mail messages. I don't sleep well unless all of my E-mail is cleared. I'll answer anyone who writes me.
 
ORLANDO MAGIC SEASON TICKET
His daughter, Ashley, a basketball fan, vies with Mom to accompany him to games. Ashley usually wins.
 
TOOTHBRUSH AND TOOTHPASTE
He uses these often.I happen to like garlic a lot.
 
(Photographs by Todd Anderson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (55%); JWA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARD ROCK CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN) HARD ROCK CAFE INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (55%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARD ROCK CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN) ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POP & ROCK (78%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (68%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BERK, JAMES G; FURCHGOTT, ROY JAMES G BERK (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



644 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Tensions Rise Before Albright's China Trip

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 27

 BODY:
A day before the arrival of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, the Chinese Government tonight expressed "strong resentment" in a predictably tart response to the lambasting of its human rights record in a State Department report on Friday.
The official Chinese statement, read on the state-run television, accused Washington of meddling in China's internal affairs by "fabricating unwarranted charges" while ignoring serious rights violations in its own country. 
 The statement, however, did not mention the detention for questioning on Friday of Wu Yilong, one of the founders of a banned alternative political party, in the eastern city of Hangzhou. Nor did it note the sentencing without trial of Peng Ming, a liberal intellectual who had attempted to run an independent discussion forum in Beijing, and who was given one and a half years in a labor camp.
These latest developments will only add to the pressure on Ms. Albright to take a strong line on human rights in the talks she will hold here with Chinese leaders on Monday. While both sides are hoping to nurture common ground in the meetings, Ms. Albright will undoubtedly prod China over other perennial American concerns, such as weapons sales and a widening trade imbalance.
In return, however, she is likely to get an earful from the Chinese, who are worried and perplexed by the seeming nose dive in relations with the United States, which only last summer pledged to work for a "strategic partnership."
Recent American policies and statements, Chinese foreign policy experts assert, have been insensitive to China's needs on several matters. These include the Administration's decision this week to bar sale of a satellite to a company with indirect ties to the Chinese military, its sharp criticism on human rights violations, its demands for a rapid opening of markets and talk of a possible missile defense system for Taiwan.
China tends to see specific setbacks, such as the barred satellite sale, as the work of deeper, hostile political forces. "We interpret the satellite dispute as a reflection of strategic thinking that regards China as a threat and an adversary," said Chu Shulong, director of North American studies at the China Institute for Contemporary International Relations, a Government research organization.
"The talk in America of a 'China threat,' " Mr. Chu said, "is something we really worry about."
In the Chinese view, their country is no threat, but is simply taking its rightful place as a great power. Many of the strongest American concerns about China, analysts here tend to believe, reflect a desire to keep China in a second-class status.
Among officials and even many liberal intellectuals, there is deep resentment of what they see as a foreign caricature of an increasingly diverse and vibrant Chinese society as a grim police state. Some who have actively threatened Communist Party rule have been jailed, they concede. But at the same time, people here note, Chinese have more personal choices than ever, private business is booming and the rule of law is starting to take hold.
Ms. Albright's visit, and another later in the week by the American trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, are intended in part to prepare for a high-profile visit to the United States in April by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji.
Trade officials are negotiating furiously over China's desired entry into the World Trade Organization. A breakthrough would crown Mr. Zhu's American trip and boost bilateral relations. But chances appear slim that China, grappling with a major restructuring of industry and soaring unemployment, can make enough trade concessions now to satisfy American demands.
Despite festering problems, both Governments seem to hope that Mr. Zhu's visit can rekindle some of the glow that emanated from the exchange of summit meetings in late 1997 and last summer.
Chinese leaders are anxious to sustain friendly ties. They know that American technology and cooperation are vital to their economic progress and that American culture is widely admired among the population.
At the same time, the Chinese are smarting over what they see as worrisome trends in American policy. They fear that the decision to bar a commercial satellite sale portends new, broader curbs on transfers of advanced technologies. Though investigations and official reports in Washington suggest otherwise, Chinese officials, in public at least, scoff at the notion that they are stealing secrets for military application.
"The Americans complain about a trade gap, but then they don't want to sell what China wants to buy," said Jia Qingguo, a professor of international studies at Beijing University.
On human rights, China will vehemently urge the United States not to sponsor a resolution criticizing China at the annual United Nations conference on human rights, to begin in Geneva in late March. But in the wake of stiff sentences China has dealt to several democracy activists, Congress is pressuring the Administration to act.
The Chinese Government has made a commitment to change its human rights practices gradually, said Mr. Jia, but it also worries about social stability as it tackles severe economic problems.
"What do Americans wish China to do, unleash a wave of political unrest?" Mr. Jia asked. "Political instability here is not in the interest of the United States."
In meetings Monday with Secretary Albright, Chinese officials are also sure to register adamant opposition to proposed research by the United States and Japan on a "theater missile defense" system. Discussions of missile defenses were quickened by North Korea's test of a long-range missile -- seen especially as a threat to Japan -- as well as by China's buildup of missiles on its coast facing Taiwan.
China has warned that introducing missile defenses to Asia will only trigger a regional arms race. But the basic idea of using such weapons to shore up American power in Asia -- and possibly blunt China's -- is anathema here. And what most outrages the Chinese is the speculation that such a shield might be extended to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a renegade province.
Providing missile defenses to Taiwan, Mr. Jia said, "would not only damage China's sovereignty, but also pose an obstacle to unification of the country."
China's leaders know that these issues and others will inevitably divide Beijing and Washington. But they had hoped, especially after Mr. Clinton's glittering visit here last June, that disagreements could be boxed off as the countries pursued their "partnership."
As an overarching goal of this week's meetings and the Prime Minister's April visit, Mr. Chu said, "China wants to reconfirm the positive trend in relations." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SENTENCING (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (57%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (51%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) MADELEINE K ALBRIGHT (77%); ZHU RONGJI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



645 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Right-Wing March Showcases Germany's Disenchanted

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: MAGDEBURG, Germany, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Their heads shaved, their boots polished, hundreds of young men marched into the cathedral square of this central German town today chanting "Glory and honor to the Waffen SS."
Police officers, arrayed around the square with shields and water cannons, immediately issued a warning to the neo-Nazi rightists: "We will arrest anyone who goes on chanting this slogan." It is a crime in Germany to exalt the deeds of the Nazis. 
 The demonstrators, mostly members of Germany's rightist National Democratic Party, quickly switched their tack, raising their voices to demand "Work for Germans first" and declaring: "The national resistance is marching here."
The extreme right remains marginal in Germany, hemmed in by all sorts of constitutional restrictions. But, although small, it is growing, especially in former East German towns like this one where unemployment is rampant. And the extremists appear to be highly organized and determined.
Today, beneath the unseasonal sunshine of Magdeburg, close to 1,000 rightists deployed around a square with the precision of a paramilitary organization. Older men, wearing brown leather coats betraying a nostalgia for the Gestapo, directed the movements of younger men, most skinheads in their late teens and early 20's with a taste for black leather jackets and big boots.
It is in these two age groups -- the embittered old and the angry young -- that right-wing organizations have recently proved most successful in finding recruits. They can exploit the frustrations of older people who have known nothing but authoritarian rule and now have neither work nor prospects, and of school-leavers who find no job openings or apprenticeships as German unemployment rises.
"We have doubled our membership to over 6,500 in three years and we will rise to power in this country," said Steffen Hupka, the regional leader of the National Democratic Party. "We stand for German values, German culture, and against the guilt complex imposed on us by powerful groups, especially in the United States."
In his leather jacket, with a cellular phone in each breast pocket, Mr. Hupka was very much the modern agitator, measuring his words but leaving no doubt of his revolutionary intentions.
Many in his party, he noted, did not believe the Holocaust ever happened, "but I will not give my own view because I could be arrested."
Unemployment in the state of Saxony-Anhalt, where Magdeburg is located, is running at close to 20 percent. One banner raised today said, "Turkey for the Turks, Germany for the Germans," an allusion to the large numbers of Turkish guest workers in Germany. Most such workers are in the west of the country and not in the formerly Communist east.
Another banner said, "Multi-culturalism equals genocide." A third showed a photograph of a young blonde girl with wide eyes and braids, who might have been lifted from a Nazi propaganda movie: "Does she have a future in this country?" it asked.
Economic problems in the former East Germany have clearly helped the rightists enormously, especially in combination with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's pledge to open the way for many of Germany's 7.3 million foreigners to become German citizens. Indeed the formal reason for today's demonstration was a protest against proposed new immigration laws.
The gathering underscored the way the issue of immigration has prompted an unlikely coming-together of the moderate right and the extreme right, if only on this issue. The Christian Democrats have organized a highly effective petition against Mr. Schroder's initial pledge -- now hastily dropped -- to allow foreigners to hold dual nationality.
Klaus Ramm, a 56-year-old construction worker who lost his job six months ago, said he had voted for the Christian Democrats in the last election but now felt drawn to the National Democrats.
"People my age no longer have a chance," he said, "and foreigners are pouring in. At least these people stand for German ideals."
As close to 2,000 police officers surrounded the square and circled overheard in helicopters, Mr. Ramm commented acidly: "If the German police checked our borders as well as they check all of us, we'd be a lot better off."
A court decision in Magdeburg early today prevented the rightists from marching through the town and confined them to the square. At the same time, a counterdemonstration was held by left-wing organizations that featured a rock concert and signs saying: "No human being is illegal."
Reinhard Hoppner, the Prime Minister of Saxony-Anhalt, addressed the counterdemonstration, saying that he protested against "this attempt to abuse the necessary discussion about a reform of the citizenship law for fueling xenophobia."
But it seemed clear today that much more than the immigration issue lay behind the rightist rally. There was also disillusionment at the difficult integration of East and West Germany, a process that has left many Germans angry at what they see as the false promises of western capitalism.
Half-way between the rightist rally and the counterdemonstration, a fashion show was held in Magdeburg's new shopping mall. But the glitzy models, the surrounding fast-food restaurants, and the overflowing mounds of fruit, cheese and salami in stores could not mask the city's uneasy passage from a recent Communist past to a strained present.
One young man, the word "skinhead" tattooed into his head, and "White Brotherhood" emblazoned on his leather jacket, held aloft a photograph of a helmeted soldier.
"Our fathers in the Wehrmacht were not criminals," it said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A march to protest a proposed easing of immigration laws attracted hundreds of neo-Nazi rightists in Magdeburg, Germany, yesterday. Some wore jackets that proclaimed in German, "White Brotherhood." (Stefan Doblinger/Paparrazzi for The New York Times)
 
Map of Germany shows location of Magdeburg: Communism once ruled in Magdeburg. Now, extremism grows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SACHSEN-ANHALT, GERMANY (93%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MAGDEBURG, GERMANY (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; MAGDEBURG (GERMANY); GERMANY (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SACHSEN-ANHALT, GERMANY (93%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); MAGDEBURG, GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEO-NAZI GROUPS; FRINGE GROUPS AND MOVEMENTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MEN (78%); ARRESTS (77%); RIOTS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HOLOCAUST (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); GENOCIDE (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



646 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Union Criticizes Plant Closing in Guatemala

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The nation's largest apparel union has accused the Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation, the nation's largest shirtmaker, of undercutting workers' rights by closing its factory in Guatemala -- the only unionized factory among the more than 200 export-oriented apparel factories in that country.
Jay Mazur, president of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, said the factory closing was intended to warn apparel workers at other plants in Guatemala and Central America that if they voted to join a union their jobs would be in jeopardy. 
 But Bruce J. Klatsky, chairman of Phillips-Van Heusen, which is based in New York City, said that the union was blowing the plant closing out of proportion. He said the company had closed the Guatemala City factory because a large customer, Mercantile Stores, had turned to another company to make its shirts, leaving Phillips with too many factories.
Mr. Klatsky insisted that the decision to shut the plant had nothing to do with the fact that it was unionized. He noted that the company had closed two other plants in recent months.
"We face this problem pretty significantly," Mr. Klatsky said. "We just couldn't maintain continuous and efficient production in a smooth fashion."
Mr. Klatsky said his company, which also makes apparel under the G. H. Bass, Gant and Izod labels, was a leader among American apparel companies in terms of working conditions and factory monitoring.
Union officials said Phillips-Van Heusen was hypocritical, because it was one of the few companies participating in the White House anti-sweatshop task force and had agreed to take a tougher stance against poor working conditions than most other apparel makers.
In 1997, after a six-year struggle, the 500 employees at the Guatemala City factory obtained a union contract, which significantly improved their wages and the quality of the water at the plant.
"The contract these workers had was a beacon of hope for more than 80,000 maquiladora workers in Guatemala," Mr. Mazur said, referring to maquiladoras -- factories in special low-tariff zones that export almost all their output.
"By shutting the factory, Phillips-Van Heusen sent a message to other workers in Guatemala: If you fight for justice, if you fight for a union, we will not honor your contract. We will walk away." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PVH (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORP; UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES PVH CORP (95%); UNITE HERE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORP; UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES UNITE HERE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR GARMENT WORKERS (94%); CLOSINGS (93%); PLANT CLOSINGS (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BRUCE J KLATSKY (90%); VAN HEUSEN (78%); JAY MAZUR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



647 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Lender to Poor Lands in Trouble;
High Hopes and Low Revenues Crippled Credit Union

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

 BODY:
With only a handmade sign taped to its storefront window, the Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union looks more like the delis and discount stores on Fulton Street than a financial institution. It has irregular hours, and when it is open, customers are not allowed to withdraw cash. The cash machine works, but the credit union has not issued any cards.
Convenience, however, is not the reason that Central Brooklyn's 2,700 members have remained loyal. Founded six years ago by two home-grown Ivy League graduates, Central Brooklyn became nationally recognized as the fastest-growing black-owned urban credit union in the country. Welfare mothers and homeless people opened accounts, as did doctors, lawyers and merchants. Central Brooklyn, in return, provided loans in struggling neighborhoods ignored by most banks. 
 One of a handful of credit unions chartered in low-income areas in the early 1990's, including one that opened in South Central Los Angeles after the 1992 riots, Central Brooklyn made for a tidy urban fairy tale of downtrodden people empowering themselves, and its young founders were invited to the White House.
But the fairy tale did not last. Central Brooklyn's heady beginning gave way to nagging deficits and, finally, a Federal takeover. Now, after a 15-month conservatorship, regulators must decide Central Brooklyn's fate.
For its members, Central Brooklyn is particularly important because of banks' history of neglecting the poor. With less than $4 million in deposits, the credit union is a speck compared with even small financial institutions. But for the minority neighborhoods it serves, Central Brooklyn represents a measure of self-determination, and its members have organized petition drives and protest groups to regain ownership.
"People have a great interest in it," said Monifa Akinwole, a Bedford-Stuyvesant resident who has led one of the petition drives. "The institution addressed the needs of the community, which the banks hadn't done."
The rise, fall and uncertain future of Central Brooklyn is a reminder not only of how few financial institutions choose to aggressively serve poor urban neighborhoods, but also of the undeniable difficulties faced by those that do. The credit union's problems also raise questions about the Federal agency that oversees Central Brooklyn and whether it is willing to, or even should, nurture small institutions that serve low-income areas that other banks largely ignore.
For members of Central Brooklyn, the fundamental issue now is control. By March 23, a newly formed board of credit union members must present a business plan to regulators. At least two other larger credit unions are expected to submit competing merger proposals. Members fear that an outside institution might not heed the credit union's original mission of community reinvestment.
"It was a very exciting notion, and still is, the idea that we would have our own funding institution, the idea that we could have our own economic engine in the neighborhood," said Mark Winston Griffith, 35, the Brown University graduate who helped found the credit union and became its first chairman.
National studies continue to show that black people are denied home and business loans far more often than white people. A 1998 National Bureau of Economic Research study showed that black-owned businesses were 2.4 times more likely to be denied a loan than white-owned companies. A 1998 study by the low-income housing advocacy coalition Acorn found that black applicants for home loans in New York City were rejected 2.3 times more often than white applicants.
In the early 1990's, Mr. Griffith was working on community revitalization projects for a nonprofit agency. He and a friend, Errol T. Louis, a Harvard graduate, began to organize Central Brooklyn to serve Crown Heights, Brownsville, Bedford-Stuyvesant and other minority neighborhoods. The two men evaluated the 14 banks serving central Brooklyn and found that they spent only 7.5 cents in home loans for every dollar deposited. Then, in November 1991, Federal regulators closed Freedom National Bank, a Harlem-based black-owned savings bank that had a branch in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
"It helped us draw this picture that we were a neighborhood and a people under siege," Mr. Griffith said. "We were being stripped of any ability to build wealth and build the economic infrastructure of our neighborhood. What was really appealing about Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union was that it would be owned by the people who were its shareholders, its customers."
Credit unions must be formed around a group of people with a commonality, such as geography, employment or membership in some sort of association. In the case of Central Brooklyn, the pool of potential customers was the 750,000 residents of central Brooklyn's low-income minority neighborhoods.
Federally chartered in January 1993, Central Brooklyn became an instant success. Large banks like Chase, Chemical and Manufacturer's Hanover pledged "nonmember" deposits. By 1994, membership had risen to 1,000 people, then passed 5,000 by 1996 as deposits exceeded $5 million. It cost $5 to join, and members were required to keep a minimum balance of only $10. The credit union made loans as large as $10,000, and as small as $150 to a homeless man for a security deposit on an apartment. The symbolic high point came in May 1994, when Central Brooklyn moved into a bank branch in Bedford-Stuyvesant donated by Chemical Bank.
Mr. Griffith and Mr. Louis were featured in national publications and appeared on public television's "McNeil/Lehrer News Hour." They met with Vice President Al Gore at the White House. But hints of trouble emerged in 1995 when Central Brooklyn failed to pay a dividend. Budget deficits began to follow. Regulators began applying pressure.
In hindsight, Mr. Louis, who oversaw daily operations, said Central Brooklyn grew too fast and tried to do too much. A staff of tellers accepted utility payments, sold money orders and subway tokens, cashed checks and offered youth accounts -- consumer-friendly but unprofitable services. Expenses spiraled out of control, and a plan to compete with check-cashing shops failed miserably. But most of all, Central Brooklyn's loan portfolio, the centerpiece of its empowerment mission, lost money as low-income customers fell behind on payments.
In November 1997, after Central Brooklyn's deficit surpassed $360,000, the three-member board of the National Credit Union Administration placed the credit union under conservatorship. Lesia R. Bullock, an agency spokeswoman, said there were no allegations of criminal wrongdoing. But regulators faulted Central Brooklyn's management for inadequate bookkeeping and high expenses, for not being careful enough with its loans, and for failing to aggressively collect them. Nonetheless, the conservatorship infuriated the credit union's board, which had approved a plan to address the problems and to sell its branch building because it had become too expensive to operate.
"The community should have been given the time and space to work out its problems," said Clifford Rosenthal, executive director of the National Federation of Community Development Credit Unions, an industry association group. "We thought the credit union and its community board of directors had developed strategies to correct the problem."
Once in control, regulators drew more criticism. They reduced office hours and prohibited cash withdrawals. (To withdraw money, a member must go to Central Brooklyn, have a teller write a check, then cash it at another financial institution.) Central Brooklyn was billed $3,000 a week to pay for a Boston-based consultant and would pay him more than $80,000. The branch building was hastily sold for $250,000, a price that was less than members hoped for. The transition from the branch building to Central Brooklyn's current location two blocks away, on Fulton Street between Bedford Avenue and Franklin Avenue, was handled so clumsily that many depositors were not notified and could not find it. The deficit, meanwhile, has risen above $500,000 under conservatorship.
"Frankly, the sinister interpretation is that they are deliberately bleeding the institution and making it more difficult to save," said Mr. Louis, 36, now a consultant who works with large corporations seeking to do business in the inner city. (One of his clients is The New York Times.) "A less sinister interpretation, and probably more accurate, is that they are finding it very hard to run a banking institution in the inner city. Surprise, surprise."
Norman D'Amours, chairman of the National Credit Union Administration, said conservatorship allowed Central Brooklyn to correct "record-keeping errors," shrink itself to a more manageable size and, for the first time, register three consecutive profitable months. Mr. D'Amours called the consultant's fee "an off-putting number," but he attributed the increased deficit to existing problems. He acknowledged that two larger credit unions outside the neighborhood would like to merge with Central Brooklyn but said, "Our primary aim is to return the credit union to its members." Last week, the agency granted members an extension until March 23 to prepare their business plan.
But the agency is politically divided, and Central Brooklyn's members are concerned. The agency charters and regulates 7,900 Federal credit unions and insures their deposits, as well as the deposits of 4,200 state-chartered credit unions. Earlier this month, Mr. D'Amours, regarded as a friend to institutions like Central Brooklyn, told a House subcommittee that his agency should encourage the chartering of new small credit unions that serve low-income people.
But the two other board members, Yolanda Townsend Wheat and Dennis Dollar, testified that the agency's obligation is to protect its insurance fund by promoting the growth of large credit unions that are more stable. Such a 2-to-1 split could mean problems for Central Brooklyn.
"We have very serious concerns that N.C.U.A. has stepped up its campaign of merging these credit unions, particularly the smaller ones," said Mr. Rosenthal. At least two of the other small credit unions founded during the early 1990's have been taken over by other credit unions.
Central Brooklyn's members created a seven-member board earlier this month to carry out the new business plan. Mr. Louis and Mr. Griffith continue to play unofficial roles, but they are not board members, partly because of their tense relationship with regulators. D. Akilah Pannigan, a former I.B.M. employee and the new chairman, said the new board would run the institution very cautiously.
"We envision initially a creep-before-you-walk attitude that says, 'We're going to do this slowly, but we're going to do it right,' " Ms. Pannigan said.
For Mr. Griffith, the return of the institution is critical. He vividly remembers the loans that failed, but also loans that helped an elderly woman pay for her husband's funeral or helped a homeless man get an apartment. He and Mr. Louis say they realize that they made mistakes, if well-intentioned ones.
"We served a lot of people who couldn't go anywhere else, but there is a price to pay for all those expectations," Mr. Griffith said. "The bottom line is you can't do everything."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacqui Williams-Foy, the manager of Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union, outside the institution's storefront office. Mark Winston Griffith. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 25); Errol T. Louis, one of Central Brooklyn's founders, says it grew too fast and tried to do too much. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (94%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BROOKLYN FEDERAL CREDIT UNION CENTRAL BROOKLYN FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL BROOKLYN FEDERAL CREDIT UNION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CREDIT UNIONS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); MERGERS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); RIOTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); TAKEOVERS (70%); CITIES (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); PETITIONS (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (60%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM MARK WINSTON GRIFFITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



648 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Congress on Path To Approve a Rise In Spending Caps

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Facing a painful budget squeeze, Congress seems all but certain to increase the spending limits that have been a crucial component of fiscal discipline for the last decade, members of both parties say.
Despite the prospect of huge surpluses over the next decade, Congress is still operating under spending caps that tightly limit how much money can be allocated to the military and most domestic programs. 
 Because the caps will be far tighter for the budget year starting on Oct. 1 than they have ever been before -- and because both parties support spending increases for the Pentagon and for education, among other things -- Republicans and Democrats say there is no realistic way to avoid shattering the caps or resetting them at higher levels.
But both parties are reluctant to publicly admit that reality, fearing that they will be tagged as fiscally irresponsible just as the nation is shifting to an era of opportunities created by rapidly mounting Federal surpluses from one of crippling budget deficits.
"The caps have been a good thing because we haven't had to start each year debating how much to spend, only how to divide it up," said Martha Phillips, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, a fiscal watchdog group. "If we go back to fighting over how much to spend, and people are saying that we have $4.8 trillion in surpluses, this could really get out of hand. If you don't have the caps it just makes it harder for politicians to do the right thing."
The maneuvering over the spending caps comes as Congress prepares to begin work in earnest on a budget for next year. The budget committees that draw up broad spending guidelines and the appropriations committees that set spending levels for specific programs are facing unyielding arithmetic that leaves them unable to keep current programs fully financed, much less add anything new, if the current limits are kept in place.
The caps for the coming budget year limit discretionary spending -- the one-third of the Federal budget that includes all annually appropriated programs, from the Pentagon to Head Start -- to $536 billion. (The rest of the budget is made up of mandatory spending on programs like Social Security and Medicare that are nonnegotiable obligations, plus interest payments on the Federal debt.)
Just to keep programs running at their current levels by increasing financing only to account for inflation would put discretionary spending next year at $581 billion, or $45 billion over the limit, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
If financing were frozen at current dollar levels -- a cut, once inflation is taken into account -- spending would amount to $562 billion, or $26 billion over the limit, the budget office said. Even under the most optimistic scenario, stripping out all programs financed last year by one-time emergency spending and freezing spending for all other discretionary programs at current dollar levels, spending would be $546 billion, or $10 billion over the caps.
Both parties are already pushing for new spending. The Senate passed a bill this week, by a 91-to-8 vote, giving sweeping pay and pension increases to the military. The legislation would cost $1.6 billion next year and $55 billion over 10 years.
Both the House and the Senate plan to consider further increases in military spending, perhaps as much as $20 billion a year. Some Republicans are calling for sweeping increases in Federal spending on education, a cause long favored by Democrats. And a whole host of other issues, from aid to farmers to paying for the census and improving security at embassies abroad, are likely to draw varying degrees of bipartisan support.
"My party is committed to spending restraint," said a senior Republican aide involved in the appropriations process. "But trying to build restraint into a system that is crying out for additional spending is very difficult."
For all practical purposes, the caps were broken by Congress and the Clinton Administration in the budget they agreed to last fall for the current fiscal year. But they managed to remain within the spending limits on a technical basis by resorting to a variety of gimmicks, including labeling nearly $20 billion as emergency spending that is not subject to the caps.
The spending caps were first used informally in the late 1980's and were written into law as part of the deficit reduction package in 1990 under which President George Bush agreed to a tax increase. The caps were updated in the 1997 bipartisan agreement to balance the budget within five years.
The caps will bite particularly deeply next year because the 1997 budget deal postponed most of the fiscal pain for the last three years of the plan, meaning, in effect, that the promises of fiscal rectitude made two years ago are now coming due. The pain is being exacerbated because the gimmicks agreed to last fall pushed some of this year's spending onto next year's books.
Congress is also considering proposals to loosen another device intended to promote fiscal rectitude, known as the "pay as you go" rules. Those rules require that tax cuts be financed only by offsetting tax increases or by reductions in mandatory spending.
Many Republicans want to change those rules so that projected surpluses can be used to pay for tax cuts. Some Republicans have also discussed changing the rules to allow reductions in discretionary spending to be used to pay for tax cuts.
But the main focus in Congress now is on the spending caps. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois has been canvassing Republicans and some Democrats about whether the caps will have to be broken and if so whether it can be done without a partisan fight. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said he favored keeping the current caps in place.
The chairmen of the budget committees in both chambers, Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, and Representative John R. Kasich, Republican of Ohio, are working on plans to stay within the caps by cutting spending in some areas even as they propose increases for the Pentagon and education.
"Mr. Kasich would strongly prefer to adhere to the caps," said Terry Holt, a spokesman for the House Budget Committee. "If it can be done, if there is any possible way to do it, we are going to try and get it done."
But the chairmen of the appropriations committees in both chambers, Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, and Representative C. W. Bill Young, Republican of Florida, have made clear that it will be all but impossible for them to operate within the caps. And some Republicans admit that it will be difficult to solve the problems through deep spending cuts, in part because their own party has little stomach for the political battle it would entail.
The budget proposal that President Clinton sent Congress earlier this month managed to propose a host of new programs and stay within the caps only by employing what Republicans called budgetary smoke and mirrors. An analysis by the Senate Budget Committee's Republican staff found that Mr. Clinton's budget would exceed the spending caps by $17.8 billion next year once what they described as legerdemain was stripped out.
Breaking or increasing the caps would effectively mean dipping into the budget surplus, which the Congressional Budget Office has estimated at $107 billion for the current fiscal year and $131 billion for next year.
But in both cases, the entire surplus comes from excess payroll taxes that are earmarked for Social Security. Factoring out Social Security, the Government will run a deficit of $19 billion this year and $7 billion next year, according to the budget office. Members of both parties are increasingly reluctant to dip into Social Security's money to pay for spending programs, although they did so freely for most of the last two decades.
Mr. Clinton has proposed using about 11 percent of the projected surpluses over the next 15 years, or about $500 billion, for increased domestic and military spending -- but only after Congress and the Administration agree on a plan to assure Social Security's long-term solvency.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: How Tight Are the Spending Caps?"
About one-third of the Federal budget is subject to spending limits. Members of both parties say it will be all but impossible to stay within those limits in the budget year that starts Oct. 1 even if no new spending is proposed.
 
No increase in spending: $26 billion over the limit.
The portion of the budget subject to caps would total $562 billion.
 
$280 billion -- DEFENSE
$276 billion -- DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
$6 billion -- VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION
 
Spending increased to keep up with inflation: $45 billion over the limit. The portion of the budget subject to caps would total $581 billion.
 
$289 billion -- DEFENSE
$286 billion -- DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
$6 billion -- VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION
(Source: Congressional Budget Office)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MEDICARE (67%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



649 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: As Ulster Peace Effort Stalls, Eyes Turn to U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Irish and British officials are looking increasingly to President Clinton for another intervention in the Northern Ireland peace effort, hoping he can end the dispute over the disarmament of the Irish Republican Army.
The dispute threatens to end attempts by Protestant and Roman Catholic leaders to achieve lasting peace in the northern British province. 
 The President's involvement, including two widely acclaimed visits to Ireland, is credited here as essential to the advance of the peace agreement approved by Protestant and Catholic leaders 10 months ago and overwhelmingly endorsed in referendums here and in the North.
Officials here and in Belfast, the northern capital, have indicated clearly in recent days that if the Northern Ireland Assembly in Belfast fails to resolve the disarmament dispute by mid-March, then the President is likely to try to persuade Protestant and Catholic political leaders to meet during their scheduled visit to the White House on St. Patrick's Day, March 17.
Michael J. Sullivan, the new American Ambassador to Ireland and a former Governor of Wyoming, said on Friday that he would not speculate on the specifics of the involvement of Mr. Clinton, who is a personal friend. But he added, "The President is deeply interested and anxious to see the peace agreement implemented."
Last week, on his first visit to Northern Ireland, Mr. Sullivan, who became the Ambassador six weeks ago, discussed the dispute with the Assembly's two leaders, the Protestant First Minister, David Trimble, and his Catholic deputy, Seamus Mallon.
He was accompanied by James Lyons, Mr. Clinton's economic adviser for Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
That post was previously held by former Senator George J. Mitchell, who became chairman of the peace talks that produced a formal agreement last Easter to end the sectarian warfare involving the province's Protestant majority and its Catholic minority.
The Americans did not meet officials of Sinn Fein, the I.R.A.'s political wing, or of the Rev. Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party, which vehemently opposes the peace pact. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (74%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN IRELAND; GREAT BRITAIN; IRELAND (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PEACE PROCESS (94%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DISARMAMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RELIGION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); REFERENDUMS (55%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



650 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ace in the Case: A Steel-Trap Memory, an Eye for the Jugular

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The courtroom success that David Boies has enjoyed depends on thorough preparation, plenty of backup from lawyers for the Justice Department and 19 states suing Microsoft, and a steel-trap memory. He starts with a script but, far more than most lawyers, varies from it. He will let a witness give a rambling speech and then, seizing on a spoken sentence or two, he recalls a document among thousands in evidence that refutes the witness's testimony.
Microsoft insists that these "gotcha moments" of courtroom drama may be prominently reported in daily news accounts of the trial, but that they do not undermine the factual record of the case. 
 Whatever the legal impact, it is often an impressive performance -- made possible by Mr. Boies's formidable memory, which helps him overcome the fact that he is dyslexic. A late reader as a child, he still reads with difficulty. "He overcompensates with an overwhelming memory," observed his wife, Mary Boies, who is also a lawyer.
In his defense of I.B.M. in a 13-year Federal antitrust case dropped in 1982, Mr. Boies, then a partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, prepared to cross-examine the Government's economic witness by reading some background papers and being briefed for a half-hour by two colleagues. During the briefing, Mr. Boies wrote four words on a yellow legal pad, recalled another lawyer who worked on the case. He then cross-examined the Government's economist for five days with those four words as his notes. "It was a tour de force," the lawyer recalled.
Mr. Boies, who left Cravath in 1997 to start his own firm, Boies & Schiller, is working for the Justice Department only on the Microsoft case. His rate works out to under $50 an hour, he figures, less than one-tenth his usual rate. By all accounts, it has been a bargain for the Government.
The Microsoft legal team is led by William Neukom, Microsoft's tall, silver-haired general counsel, and a corps of lawyers from Sullivan & Cromwell including John Warden, Richard Urowsky and Steven Holley.
Mr. Neukom, 57, has been handling the company's legal affairs since 1979 when he was working at the Seattle law firm of the Microsoft chairman's father, William H. Gates Jr.. (The software entrepreneur is William H. Gates 3d.) The senior Mr. Gates asked Mr. Neukom to handle a lease for his son's 12-person software company, which was moving from Albuquerque to a Seattle suburb.
Mr. Neukom bridles at the suggestion that Microsoft's defense has stumbled badly. "No one has an opinion that is worth a nickel unless he or she has read all the written testimony, read all the court transcripts and seen all the videotapes," he said.
The daily press coverage of the trial, he insists, is a distortion because the stories magnify a dramatic moment or two while largely ignoring the substance of the case.
The Boies approach, in Mr. Neukom's view, is to use the "high jinks of courtroom theatrics to try to obscure the evidentiary record."
Still, legal experts are skeptical. The Microsoft side, they say, has made a puzzling number of basic mistakes, noting that witnesses should not be surprised by documents or prior testimony.
"This case is the buzz of the legal community, and it's an embarrassment for Sullivan & Cromwell and Microsoft," said Stephen Gillers, a professor at the New York University Law School. "The one way they can redeem themselves is to win, if not in this round then before the appeals court or the Supreme Court. It's always hard to argue with victory." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP; SULLIVAN & CROMWELL CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (92%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP; SULLIVAN & CROMWELL US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION LAWYERS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (89%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); DYSLEXIA (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (76%); LITIGATION (73%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; BOIES, DAVID; GILLERS, STEPHEN (PROF) BILL GATES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



651 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: For Microsoft, Humbled May Not Mean Defeated

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
For Microsoft's witnesses at its antitrust trial, the simple words of introduction have become deeply unnerving. "My name is David Boies, and I represent the United States."
It is no wonder the big software company's witnesses have come to fear facing Mr. Boies, the Justice Department's trial lawyer, in the Government's sweeping antitrust case against the Microsoft Corporation. Time after time, he has caught Microsoft witnesses off guard as the words from their mouths on the stand contradict the statements in internal Microsoft documents or in their own E-mail. 
 Yet as both sides have now presented their main evidence, with the last of Microsoft's 12 witnesses having finished on Friday, the question remains just how much the company has been merely embarrassed or truly damaged in the courtroom.
The answer, legal experts say, is by no means as clear-cut as might be suggested by the daily reports of Microsoft's miscues. The recent drift of significant rulings in antitrust cases, they note, tends to be pro-defendant as the courts have been generally reluctant to second-guess business decisions.
"Boies has done an excellent job, but the outcome of this case is still in doubt," said William Kovacic, a professor at the George Washington University Law School. "There is enough flexibility in the doctrine of antitrust and enough uncertainty about how the case law applies to a dynamic, high-technology industry like computer software that it could go either way."
Put simply, the Government's case is that Microsoft illegally used its monopoly power to thwart the challenge to its dominance posed by Internet software, stifling competition and innovation.
The 57-year-old Mr. Boies -- known for his rumpled blue suits, for his uncanny memory and for having defended I.B.M. in a marathon antitrust case -- has clearly put Microsoft through a humbling courtroom experience.
He rattled a senior Microsoft executive by pointing out misleading aspects in a videotaped demonstration he introduced as evidence. He confronted Microsoft's economic expert with his earlier writing, which seemed to contradict his testimony, and the befuddled witness said, "What could I have been thinking?"
Last week, after Mr. Boies seemed to dismantle another Microsoft executive, forcing him to retract some of his testimony, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson joked as a Microsoft lawyer took over that the task before him was a "heroic endeavor."
In the courtroom, Mr. Boies (pronounced BOYZ) is trying to undermine the credibility of Microsoft's witnesses, which is a central element in the Government's legal strategy. Attacking Microsoft's credibility, antitrust experts say, helps reinforce the strongest parts of the Government's current case -- a case that suffered a setback a month after it was filed last spring.
The Government sued Microsoft last May in a complaint that focused mainly on the Internet browser market. It contended that Microsoft bundled its Internet browser to the company's industry-standard Windows operating system in an illegal attempt to hobble a promising challenger, Netscape Communications, the pioneer in software used to browse the World Wide Web. Microsoft replied that its Explorer browser and Windows were not two products but a single product, and that Microsoft could put anything it wanted to into Windows.
A Federal appeals court essentially agreed with Microsoft last June in a separate but related case. The court said Microsoft had the right to fold a browser into its operating system as long as it could make a "plausible claim" of consumer benefit.
After the appeals court ruling, the Government added evidence to flesh out the allegation in its original complaint that Microsoft was engaged in a "pattern of anticompetitive behavior." By the time the trial began in October, the Government's roster of witnesses included not only Netscape's president, but also executives from Apple, I.B.M., Intel, Intuit and Sun Microsystems. In one episode after another, they testified, Microsoft was a monopolistic bully, using its power as a club against other companies to try to curb competition and divide markets.
Microsoft denies each allegation, saying that its accusers are a collection of its rivals trying to portray routine business meetings in the software industry as something sinister.
These allegations all center on private meetings -- some more than three years ago -- involving Microsoft and other companies. The court must sort through the written evidence and the witness testimony to decide whom to believe.
"What happened at these meetings are we-said, they-said disputes," said Robert Litan, a former senior official in the Justice Department's antitrust division. "That's why the Government has tried so hard to go after the credibility of Microsoft's witnesses in general."
The credibility strategy is also an effort by the Government to bullet-proof any lower-court ruling from appeals. No one can predict with certainty how Judge Jackson will rule in this nonjury trial.
His questions, comments and even rebukes to Microsoft witnesses may indicate that Judge Jackson leans toward the Government. But regardless of the verdict at Federal District Court, the case will almost surely go to the Federal Court of Appeals and perhaps to the Supreme Court.
Judge Jackson could certainly be overruled on matters of evidence and law. But legal experts say it would be very difficult to reverse him on findings of fact based on credibility. "The judge can say I looked all these witnesses in the eye and I don't believe them," noted Mr. Litan, who is now at the Brookings Institution.
The Government has amassed a lengthy list of allegations. They range from trying to get rivals to divide markets to pressuring personal computer makers and Internet service providers to agree to exclusionary contracts that unfairly curb competition. Still, to rule in favor of the Government, the courts must decide that some of Microsoft's actions were clear-cut violations of the antitrust laws and not merely what one antitrust scholar called ingredients in a "stew of unsavory behavior."
Microsoft, legal experts say, has certainly been able to raise doubts about some of the incidents. The Government, for example, contends that Microsoft made an illegal offer to Netscape to divide the browser market at a pivotal meeting on June 21, 1995, an offer Netscape declined. Based on the courtroom testimony and reams of E-mail evidence, the executives of the two companies left that meeting with sharply differing views of what occurred.
The legal hurdle in attempted collusion cases, antitrust experts say, is fairly high. The key case, they say, is a 1984 ruling involving American Airlines Inc. In a tape-recorded phone conversation, Robert Crandall, American's president, tried to persuade the president of Braniff Airlines to jointly raise their fares 20 percent on flights from Dallas. A Federal appeals court ruled against American, finding the evidence "uniquely unequivocal."
The Microsoft-Netscape meeting, antitrust experts say, does not seem to rise to that unambiguous standard of evidence. "I doubt that charge will hold up," said Mr. Kovacic of George Washington University.
Microsoft insists that most of the credibility attacks on its witnesses are on issues not central to the case. For example, Mr. Boies got Richard L. Schmalensee, dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to say he could not imagine what he was thinking when he wrote in a 1982 Harvard Law Review article that "persistent excess profits" suggest that a company has considerable market power -- contrary to his testimony that Microsoft's enormous profits are not an indication of monopoly power.
The next day, Microsoft's lawyer pointed out a footnote in a 1982 article in which Mr. Schmalensee noted that extremely high profits could be explained by owning a "unique and long-lived asset." A particularly valuable intellectual property, like Microsoft's Windows, could qualify as such an asset, Mr. Schmalensee said.
"Are we sorry he did not go to the footnote on the first day?" said William Neukom, a senior vice president and general counsel of Microsoft. "Sure we are. It gave David Boies a moment of drama, and it dominated the news stories of the trial that day. But it does not affect the factual record of the case, not one whit."
Most legal experts believe that the strongest part of the Government's case is the allegation that Microsoft's restrictive agreements with computer makers and Internet service providers, combined with financial incentives to favor Microsoft's products, unfairly put Netscape at a disadvantage to thwart competition. "The evidence that Microsoft constantly placed hurdles to make it more difficult for consumers to choose Netscape looks quite strong," said Stephen Axinn, a leading antitrust litigator.
Microsoft's legal strategy is to try to focus the court's attention on the outcome in the marketplace, not on Microsoft's inflammatory E-mail or contract details. And Microsoft argues that many of its contract restrictions have since been eased.
"Whatever those arrangements were, whatever measure of exclusivity they created for a period of time, Netscape was able to gain a substantial number of new users," said Richard Urowsky, a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell, the law firm representing Microsoft. "There was no foreclosure of consumer choice."
The courtroom battle will be silenced for a while. Judge Jackson declared a six-week recess because of scheduling conflicts with other cases. In mid-April, the case resumes as each side can call three rebuttal witnesses, followed by final arguments. A verdict is expected in the summer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Boies, the lead Government lawyer in the Microsoft trial, has proved adept at showing contradictions in testimony. Mr. Boies took the Microsoft case at the bargain rate of about $50 an hour, a tenth his normal rate. Microsoft's legal defense team is led by, from left, John Warden, William Neukom and Richard Urowsky. Microsoft insists that most of the attacks on the credibility of its witnesses are not central to the case. (Photographs by Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); WITNESSES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; BOIES, DAVID DAVID BOIES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



652 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-11
 
Nigerians Turn Out to Vote In Presidential Election
Tens of millions of Nigerians cast ballots to choose their next president, hoping to end a long era of military dictatorship and to fulfill the promise of democracy for Africa's most populous country. 1 

Murders Plague Mexican City
The latest in a long series of sexual killings has provoked considerable outrage in the border city of Ciudad Juarez. The killings pose a challenge to Gov. Patricio Martinez Garcia, who won election last year partly by lambasting his predecessor for investigative mismanagement. 3
 
German Neo-Nazis Show Force
Several hundred young men rallied in a central German town chanting neo-Nazi themes, showing the extreme right's apparent organization and determination. Although the demonstrators represent a fringe, their numbers are growing, especially in former East German towns where unemployment is rampant. 8
 
Ulster Looks to the U.S.
Irish and British officials are looking increasingly to President Clinton for another intervention in the Northern Ireland peace effort, hoping he can end the dispute over disarming the Irish Republican Army. 9
 
Hindus Face Trouble in East
New Delhi has stumbled in an effort to take over the government of one of the country's most populous states, Bihar, after two massacres there. The upper house of Parliament seems likely to reject the move this week, adding a fresh blow to the credibility of India's Prime Minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee. 4
 
NATIONAL 14-23
 
Congress Very Likely To Raise Spending Caps
Congress seems all but certain to increase the spending limits that have been a crucial component of fiscal discipline for the last decade, members of both parties say. The caps will be far tighter for the coming budget year than they ever have been, but both parties support spending increases and say there is no way to avoid shattering the caps or resetting them at higher levels. 1
 
Baptist Leader Found Guilty
The Rev. Henry J. Lyons, president of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., was found guilty of racketeering for swindling millions of dollars from companies seeking to do business with his followers. His co-defendant, Bernice Edwards, was acquitted. 1
 
Republicans Consider Future
In California, where the Republican Party suffered its worst defeat in 40 years in November, party regulars spoiling for fights over abortion and leadership gathered in a climate of soul-searching that seemed emblematic of the party's post-impeachment struggles around the nation. 14
 
Union Criticizes Shirtmaker
The nation's largest apparel union has accused the Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation, the nation's largest shirtmaker, of undercutting workers' rights by closing its factory in Guatemala -- the only unionized factory among the more than 200 export-oriented apparel factories in that country. 14
 
Car Seat Changes Ordered
Makers of cars and child safety seats will be required to adopt a common means of attaching the devices in an effort to save children's lives, President Clinton said. 20
 
NEW YORK/REGION 25-33
 
Pataki Seeks to Limit Aid for Special Education
Governor Pataki has quietly moved to make far-reaching changes in New York's special education program, long criticized as a dumping ground for children who should be in standard classrooms, by seeking to limit aid and enrollment for the first time. 25
 
Landmark Crane to Come Down
The eighth highest point in Manhattan is about to disappear. A 180-foot-long boom -- a steel structure almost the length of a city block -- is scheduled to be lowered from the tower crane atop the Conde Nast building in Times Square. 27
 
A Credit Union Falters
The Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union became nationally recognized as the fastest-growing black-owned urban credit union in the country six years ago, a tidy urban fairy tale of downtrodden people empowering themselves. But the fairy tale did not last. 25
 
NEEDIEST CASES 28
 
OBITUARIES 34-35
 
Michael St. Clair
An influential Manhattan art dealer, he was 88. 34
 
Chess 33
Weather 33
Cong.Vote 31 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PVH (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (61%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); INDIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); IRELAND (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PVH CORP (61%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (94%); INDIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); IRELAND (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VERDICTS (85%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (83%); GARMENT WORKERS (83%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MURDER (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); CLOSINGS (68%); RELIGION (66%); APPAREL MFG (63%); CHILD CAR SEATS (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); ACQUITTAL (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (52%); CHILDREN (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



653 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Take Cars Of Drunken Drivers?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
There is a way to prevent drunken- driving recidivism that is simpler than Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's Draconian strategies in New York City (editorial, Feb. 24). With an ignition interlock device, a driver must pass an alcohol breath test before the car will start.
As of 1996, studies on more than 8,000 repeat offenders in 13 locations in the United States and Canada showed recidivism (an offense within two years of the previous one) that ranged from 3.9 percent to less than 1 percent -- a steep fall from the usual rate of 30 percent. 
 Tampering with or bypassing this device has not been a significant problem, and costs have been economical for the driver and the agencies administering the programs.
 
GEORGE F. GITLITZ, M.D.
Sarasota, Fla., Feb. 24, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); CANADA (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); CANADA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECIDIVISM RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999



654 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
FEIRING, RUTH M.

 BODY:
FEIRING-Ruth M. 87, Sarasota, died February 20, 1999. She was born September 7, 1911 in New York City and went to Sarasota 27 years ago. She taught history and economics at Richmond Hill and Martin Van Buren High Schools and was a college adviser to graduates. She received a bachelorsdegree from Hunter College in New York. She was a member of Hadassah of Sarasota, O.R.T., B'nai B'rith Aurel Rosen Lodge and Temple Beth Sholom. Survivors include her husband William of Sarasota; a sister, Anne Rosenthal of Sarasota; and two nephews, Steven and Eugene Rosenthal. Memorial donations may be made to Hospice of Southwest Florida, 5955 Rand Boulevard, Sarasota, FL. 34238. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SARASOTA, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (57%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (57%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HOSPICE (86%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (85%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); 

PERSON: FEIRING, RUTH M. FEIRING-RUTH M (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999



655 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 36; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4033 words

HEADLINE: A Curse on the House

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent article explored the problems and paradoxes of bilingual education.

 BODY:
Republicans in the House of Representatives are looking to their new Speaker, Dennis Hastert, with a yearning that appears suspiciously like desperation. Few of them even pretend that they consider Hastert a forceful leader. As one leadership aide put it recently, and bluntly, "What people like about Denny is that he's not going to do something stupid." Hastert is a modest, amiable soul who is fond of recalling his past career as a high-school wrestling coach. When party leaders came to Hastert in December to tell him that he needed to fill the breach created by the stunningly unexpected resignation of Robert Livingston, the Speaker-designate, Hastert, according to one Midwestern Congressman, "wasn't sure he could do it, he wasn't sure he wanted to do it, and he was scared." What Hastert's colleagues are hoping is that the new Speaker will somehow save them from themselves, as if his bulky frame were a rampart standing between the G.O.P. and the cliff it seems disposed to race off. Hastert's real virtue is that he is not his predecessor, Newt Gingrich, for the retrospective view inside the party is that Gingrich is at the heart of practically everything that anyone thinks went wrong in the last few years. Talk to Republican House members, as I spent the past few weeks doing, and you'll hear that Gingrich was too obsessed with destroying the President, failed to remind the public of the party's accomplishments, caved to the Christian right and caved to the Clinton left. You would think that Gingrich was a virus alien to the party, rather than the party's leader and visionary for most of the decade.
Denny Hastert, the not-Newt, was trotted out for celebration at a closed-to-the-press party-leadership retreat in Williamsburg, Va., earlier this month. The retreat began with a sobering presentation from pollsters: current numbers, they explained, show that voters trust the Democrats more than the Republicans on almost all major issues, including taxes, an issue on which the G.O.P. has traditionally been favored by a significant margin. After dinner on the first night, Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, the new head of the National Republican Congressional Committee, screened a video made up of clips of gloating Democrats, designed to fire members with horror at the prospect of a Democratic takeover of the House -- which is precisely what would happen were an election held today, according to pollsters. 
 Hastert didn't speak until the following morning, when he got up and more or less said, according to a summary provided by one attendee, "We need to work together, he's the coach, he wants to put other people in the spotlight." It was a pep talk, and not a particularly memorable one, and it lasted no more than 10 minutes. Then the group talked about issues and heard a presentation from executives of a marketing firm, who explained that in order to promote a winning message, the G.O.P. needed to empathize with voters, tone down the ideological content, personalize and simplify.
So yes, there had been a problem -- but with the marketing, not the message. "The message needs to be delivered by people who are upbeat, who are connectors with folks out there, who can relate everything we're doing to people's everyday lives," Jennifer Dunn, a Congresswoman from Washington who is herself an important element of the Republicans' new look, told me a few days after the retreat. Or as Representative Joe Scarborough of Florida put it, with perhaps a trace of irony, "Denny is this year's model."
As the Congressional Republicans head out into battle with the ordeal of impeachment finally behind them, they hope to win back the public with a kinder, gentler face. It should become clear soon enough whether the problem really was Newt, and whether the answer is Denny. An alternative theory constitutes the nightmare underneath the professions of optimism and bonhomie -- that the House Republicans have actually lost touch with ordinary Americans, or rather are captive to a base that is itself out of touch with ordinary Americans, as the Democrats were 15 or so years ago. Michael Forbes, the Long Island Congress-man who publicly agonized over impeachment before voting with his party, said to me, "If we keep defining the party by the extreme right, not only will you see Republicans leaving the party, but you will also see a permanent Republican minority where we will lose the White House, we will lose the House and we will lose the Senate." And then Forbes added, "I have great hopes in the ascension of Denny Hastert."
Among the Congressional Republicans there is no bafflement like the bafflement over the failure of the American people to rally to the cause of impeachment. John Doolittle, a California Congressman who has both his car and his office desk festooned with bumper stickers that read, "Impeach Clinton for the Children," said: "I feel good about impeaching the President, and I would happily do it tomorrow. How the rest of the country can not feel good about it is truly beyond me." Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster, advances the almost metaphysical argument that ordinary citizens, unlike Congressional Republicans, simply can not own up to their own true feelings on the subject. "People don't want to admit that the man they voted for President is so deeply flawed because that says something about themselves," Luntz said.
A number of moderate Republicans pointed out that many of their party brethren loathe the President so passionately that they simply cannot conceive that people of good will could feel otherwise. Given their own scorn, they cannot admit that most Americans disagree with them without feeling contempt for the people themselves, an emotion very few politicians permit themselves to express. Tom DeLay, the Republican majority whip and the leader of the party's Clinton-hating faction, insisted in a speech before the House that impeachment was a matter of "relativism versus absolute truth." Given the choice, Americans, it turned out, preferred a tolerant and forgiving relativism.
Some version of this understanding has now in fact become patent to many Republicans. Vin Weber, a former Congressman and Reagan-era optimist who along with Gingrich proclaimed the coming of a new "conservative opportunity society," said, "The image that our party is defined by a hectoring moralism is as dangerous to us as it is on the left if they're defined by a pandering permissiveness."
But it's also true that impeachment did not provoke a new tone of hectoring moralism from an essentially secular party; it brought to the fore passions that have been bubbling at least since the "revolution" of 1994 and perhaps since the election of Clinton two years before. Newt Gingrich stoked those passions and was finally, in the classic revolutionary denouement, consumed by them. The Speaker staved off a coup from the right in the summer of 1997 and then was ousted after last year's election. And on his way out, like a Jacobin railing at the Terror as he's led to the tumbrels, Gingrich warned darkly of the party's "perfectionist caucus." This is the kind of epithet that may stick to the House Republicans.
Gingrich's lament suggests a very different explanation for the Republicans' grave problems. I heard such a theory from Peter King, the Nassau County Republican who became a hero to Democrats everywhere by his unwavering, and very public, opposition to the impeachment of President Clinton. King has been held in fairly low regard inside his own party since he made himself into a sort of celebrity martyr, boasting of his victimization by party leaders and almost flaunting his subsequent marginalization inside the G.O.P. At the same time, as King told me, he has a perfect voting record with the Christian Coalition. "I am not a moderate," he said flatly.
King doesn't see the party's problems precisely in ideological terms. In the 80's, he explained, the party's base was not Sunbelt evangelicals but Reagan Democrats. "They weren't Holy Roller types, but they wanted to have some semblance of decency, they wanted to reward hard work." Today, King went on to say, those Reagan Democrats are "looking for someone like Reagan, but what they're seeing are these really harsh, unrelenting, unforgiving, avenging-angel types -- that scares them off. And as I look around the House of Representatives, there are very few people who would be comfortable with Ronald Reagan in terms of their attitudes -- the Democrats are the enemy, Bill Clinton is evil, politics is evil." It galls King that President Clinton is now so often surrounded by cops, as Reagan and Bush used to be. Those are the Reagan Democrats the party has lost.
One hears this critique often from an older generation of Republican. Robert Michel, who was the minority leader of the House during the Bush years, said that he and Tom Foley, the the Speaker, used to meet weekly to discuss issues, alternating offices from week to week -- a practice that sounds as dated as the etiquette of World War I flying aces. Michel said that he told Gingrich that he had to engage Dick Gephardt, the Democratic leader, in a similar dialogue, but Gingrich, Michel said, "always envisioned the opponent as the enemy rather than the political adversary." When I mentioned this story in front of an aide to a leading Republican, she snorted, "What it got Michel was the distrust of many of his members."
Perhaps, and yet Republican governors around the country, including George Pataki, George W. Bush, Tommy Thompson and Christine Whitman, have gained enormous popularity by emphasizing effective government over moral or ideological campaigns. You won't see many of these governors mounting the barricades on issues like immigration or affirmative action, not to mention partial-birth abortion.
Gingrich may have instituted the style and the rhetoric of total war, but it is now a deep-seated reflex among the House Republicans. It was, after all, Dick Armey, the Republican majority leader, who said of Hillary Clinton, "All her friends are Marxists," and who referred to Barney Frank, the openly gay Democratic Congressman from Massachusetts, as "Barney Fag." Tom DeLay, the House whip, has compared the Environmental Protection Agency to the Gestapo. Indeed, DeLay, who has replaced Gingrich as the most powerful figure in the House as well as the Democrats' extremist of choice, is an instructive figure in this regard. DeLay is a small businessman -- an exterminator, more precisely and deliciously -- who represents the new middle-class suburbs that have grown up outside of Houston, an area very similar demographically to Gingrich's DeKalb County and also largely devoid of the yeasty ethnic mix that, Representative King would say, lent a certain realism and restraint to the Reagan Democrats.
DeLay was elected to Congress in 1984 as a fiscal conservative and deregulator, if a rather extreme one. He has referred to himself as "a free-market nut." In 1995 he infuriated moderate Republicans by attaching to an appropriations bill a series of riders that would have virtually annihilated the E.P.A.'s enforcement powers. But in recent years, DeLay has also developed strong ties to the Christian right. Both he and Armey are among the few Congressional members of the Council for National Policy, an organization of right-wing political and religious leaders. DeLay has taken to the floor of the House to call for the impeachment of Federal judges whom the Council deems dangerous liberal activists. Randy Tate, the head of the Christian Coalition, used to be one of DeLay's deputy whips, and they remain close. A number of Republicans suggested to me, without questioning the depth of DeLay's convictions, that he had recognized that if you want the power that comes with a mass following in today's Republican Party, you cultivate the Christian Right.
DeLay is not exactly a practitioner of the Bob Michel school of genteel bipartisanship. He is known inside the Beltway as the Hammer, a nickname that he cherishes like a scar from an old brawl. Shortly after Tate won election to Congress from Washington in 1994, DeLay sent a letter to PAC's listing the amounts each had given to Tate's opponent. "I was surprised to see you opposed Randy Tate," he wrote. "You now have the opportunity to work toward a positive future relationship. . . . Your immediate support for Randy Tate is personally important to me and the Republican leadership team." DeLay had served notice that lapses into bipartisanship would no longer be accepted. "He is," as one prominent Republican said wonderingly, "almost harsher than Newt."
DeLay and Armey met with, and encouraged, disaffected conservatives who plotted Gingrich's overthrow in the summer of 1997. The plot collapsed when, according to participants, Armey realized that he wouldn't be elected Speaker and exposed the conspiracy to Gingrich. In the Shakespearean scene that followed, Armey denied any role in the confabulations, while DeLay made a clean breast of everything. This had the effect, paradoxically, of virtually destroying Armey's credibility, and greatly strengthening DeLay's. Ray LaHood, a mild-mannered figure who represents Bob Michel's old district in Illinois, said that DeLay "didn't try to weasel out of it the way Armey did." Stalwarts of the class of 1994 like Joe Scarborough now speak of Armey with open scorn and of DeLay with the deepest respect.
It was DeLay, almost more than Gingrich, who became the public face, and the private engine, of the impeachment process. He defied Gingrich last March by publicly demanding that Clinton tell the truth about Monica Lewinsky, when the Speaker had enjoined the caucus to stick to the high road at least until it was safe to descend. Just after the election, when impeachment looked like a losing proposition and many Republicans were seeking a way out, DeLay stepped forward once again and announced on television that censure was an unacceptable option, thus killing whatever momentum the measure had among Republicans. What is so striking about DeLay is that he is in many ways a classic politician -- a genius at delivering highway money to his home county of Fort Bend, a dependable vote counter and, by all accounts, a tremendously effective whip. He has all the earmarks of a secular politician; and yet he is at the same time a charter member of the perfectionist caucus.
The truly secular politician does what the former Senator Alfonse D'Amato did. D'Amato, a partisan if ever there was one, used his position as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee to pursue the Clintons remorselessly, exploring every obscure corner of the Whitewater story. But when the Senator realized that the so-called scandal wasn't getting much political traction, he abruptly announced that the country had had enough of Whitewater. This was arguably a consummate act of hypocrisy on D'Amato's part, but it rested on a shrewd appraisal of public opinion (though one that may have come too late to get D'Amato himself re-elected).
DeLay, on the other hand, played the part of the avenging angel to a fare-thee-well. And yet he could do so with no fear of the consequences -- unlike D'Amato -- because so many of his constituents thought he was right. Right-wing voters in the Sunbelt have thus enabled, and driven, a politics of purity and wrath that may turn out to be ruinous for the party as a whole.
DeLay has been a particularly formidable player of late. Robert Livingston waited to publicly announce his candidacy to succeed Gingrich until the morning after DeLay promised him the support of his 65-man whip team, widely recognized as the most disciplined and powerful grouping in the House. And when Livingston, having been outed by Larry Flynt as an adulterer, announced his resignation from the House, it was DeLay who marshaled support for Denny Hastert, his own deputy and longtime friend, while the members were still on the floor and in shock.
"The truth of the matter is that Tom DeLay orchestrated Denny Hastert's ascension to Speaker," Ray LaHood said, confirming the obvious. DeLay, who is said by his friends to recognize that he is too divisive a figure to serve as Speaker, has contented himself with the role of kingmaker. But some of DeLay's colleagues, and several Republican advisers, worry that so long as a vacuum looms at the top of the party, DeLay will fill it. That's one reason why they're hoping that Denny Hastert will not be a vacuum.
And so in the person of the new Speaker and his perky, upbeat team of messengers, including Jennifer Dunn and the former football stars J.C. Watts Jr. and Steve Largent, the Williamsburg view of the party acknowledges the truth in Peter King's critique. Party leaders recognize that the rhetoric of total warfare, of Barney Fag and the Gestapo, has not gone down well with the American public. The party wants to substitute some smiling faces for Tom DeLay's angry glare and to restore the sunny optimism of Ronald Reagan.
G.O.P. advisers like Ralph Reed and Frank Luntz have begun to remind the party of why it was that Reagan was so popular and masterful a figure. Recently, in a private memo to party leaders, Luntz wrote: "Think about how often we were on the tube last year 'blasting' someone or something. . . . Ronald Reagan hardly ever raised his voice, yet his message was clear, persuasive and popular. Let us learn from our Great Communicator." Luntz suggested the Reagan-esque strategy of head-shaking ridicule and even provided examples: "Bill Clinton wants to spend millions of your taxpayer dollars on dance lessons for convicts. Convicts!! It's a prison. Can you visualize prisoners dancing? Who leads?"
It is probably safe to say that neither Tom DeLay nor Dick Armey can be trusted to bring off this joke with just the right tone of voice. (During the President's most recent State of the Union Message, cameras periodically focused on DeLay and Armey as they smirked and grimaced and virtually sat on their hands to keep from having to applaud.) Denny Hastert has yet to show anything resembling the Reagan touch; in one of his few television appearances so far, in fact, Hastert said that he didn't plan on making many television appearances.
Still, Hastert may succeed merely by not making speeches and not taunting the Democrats -- the bar has been set that low. He scored points by giving his maiden speech in the well of the House rather than in a partisan setting, and he has said that he wants to speak regularly to Richard Gephardt, though an aide of Gephardt's said that the meetings to date have been procedural rather than substantive. Several of the Republican legislators I spoke to said that they are waiting for a sign -- a sign that Hastert realizes the need to publicly affirm a new identity for the party. Hastert has yet to satisfy them, but he has begun to make tiny realignments in the party's own structure of power in the House. Livingston's tenure had promised to be an unpleasant one for Armey, since the two men were not on good terms. I was told that Livingston had planned to give one of Armey's extremely desirable Capitol offices to another member; if he had, Hastert canceled the order. Hastert has also separated himself ever so slightly from his old boss. DeLay had taken control of the party's "associations" -- from the K Street trade groups to the grass-roots organizations -- from the party conference chairman, John Boehner. Hastert restored half the associations to the new conference chairman, J.C. Watts, and left the other half with DeLay.
The party emerged from Williamsburg with a bread-and-butter Republican agenda, which members and leadership aides now recite on command: tax cuts, an increase in defense spending, local control of the schools, privatization of Social Security. Noticeable by their omission are those fractious social issues, like a ban on partial-birth abortion or the abolition of the National Endowment for the Arts. The new message is "issues we all agree on," as Jennifer Dunn puts it. It will be intriguing to see how long party leaders can keep a lid on those other issues. When I mentioned to John Linder, a Congressman from Georgia and the former chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, that the party seemed eager not to stir up a hornet's nest, he said very softly and rather implacably, "It will be stirred up." Linder promised that the social issues will be attached as riders to appropriations bills, as they have been, to the despair of party moderates, in recent years.
The reason why Denny Hastert, or Frank Luntz, may not be able to cure what ails the G.O.P. is that the problem is not simply the messenger or the tone of voice. The party can not be jollied out of its hectoring moralism. That part of the party that is beholden to, and identifies with, the Christian right is profoundly at odds with the part that isn't, and doesn't. In New England, the Republicans have lost four Congressional seats since the start of the Gingrich revolution and have barely held on to three others. Chris Shays, the classically moderate Congressman from country-club Connecticut, said, "I attribute that to my constituents and other constituents in New England saying the Republican majority is too extreme." When I mentioned Shays's remark to John Linder, he said: "Our moderates would like to think that we need to move further off the right and do deals and show how reasonable we are, and then the moderates will vote for us. And my view is, the moderates don't like us. Our base likes us; and our base is not moderate." Of course, those moderates do vote for Republicans, but in Connecticut and not in Georgia. The same compromises that depress turnout among Southern evangelicals bring swing voters over to the Republicans in the Northeast and Midwest.
The fear among many party professionals is that the party has marginalized itself -- and collaborated in the President's adroit marginalization of it -- to the point of no return. As Glenn Bolger, a Republican pollster, explained, the issues in the last election "tilted extremely strongly against us. The big issues that voters named were education, Social Security, Medicare -- issues where the Democrats are strong. Taxes and the other Republican issues are way down the list. Then you have the Democrats embracing Republican positions as being New Democrat. The Democrats sound just like us, so how do we differentiate ourselves? We move a little more to the right and give up on the center." Or as Chris Shays puts it, "It was like we had to distinguish ourselves, so if Clinton had a good idea, we had to have a bad idea." That is to say, "triangulation" worked: Bill Clinton ran against traditional liberalism, and the Republicans ran against the President's centrist liberalism, and Clinton -- and centrism -- won.
It is also true that the Republican standbys that Ronald Reagan could count on -- Communism, crime -- have either evaporated or lost their edge of urgency. Of course, the Democrats could still go on the kind of bender that Republicans used to be able to count on. President Clinton has vowed to set aside 62 percent of the projected surplus to shore up the Social Security system -- and the Republicans have agreed -- but that still leaves nearly $100 billion over the next two budget years. The Republicans want to use some or all of that money for tax cuts, while the Democrats want to use it for Medicare, a few far-more-modest tax cuts and the kind of domestic initiatives that have been waiting in the wings for just such a moment of historic prosperity. The Democrats, too, have an impatient base.
What's more, the economy could finally tumble off the rails, though Republicans can't permit themselves to openly root for a recession. Finally, the G.O.P. could come up with a Presidential candidate more charismatic than Al Gore, which wouldn't seem terribly difficult to do. A lot of things could happen, but the auguries are grim. "Right now," said one Republican strategist, "we're whistling past the graveyard."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Speaker and the majority leader, Dick Armey, getting down to Congressional business in the hallway. (David Hume Kennerly/Sygma); Tom DeLay, near right, at a strategy session in his office. Despite the whip on the table, the one he cracks is supposed to be figurative. (Shana Raab); What a difference a year makes. Suddenly, Newt Gingrich, far right in 1995, is the G.O.P.'s favorite whipping boy. (David Burnett/ontact Press Images)
 
Drawing: The fire's burning and the caldron's bubbling. How the trio of Hastert, DeLay and Armey choose to tend the flames will say much about the future of their ailing party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (56%); WRESTLING (56%); 

PERSON: TRAUB, JAMES; HASTERT, DENNIS (SPEAKER); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); DELAY, TOM (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (90%); TOM DAVIS (59%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999

 
