

601 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Across South Korea, Softer Feelings Toward the North

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: BUNDANG, South Korea, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
With news about the North Korean nuclear crisis flashing on the living room television, Kim Yoon-sup unleashed a verbal barrage of his own at the heavily armed Communist nation, some 60 miles north of this wealthy Seoul suburb.
 From a sofa in his son's high-rise condominium, the 79-year-old Korean War veteran blasted the North for murdering its domestic opponents, starving its population, and amassing legions of tanks and cannons. Mr. Kim, a retired air force colonel, also criticized his own country's policy of engagement, which had failed to stop the North's nuclear test earlier this month.
But asked if South Korea should sever its growing trade and investment ties with the North, as many in the United States advocate, his answer was a firm no. His country must continue engagement, he said, to avoid either backing the government into a corner or causing further economic hardship for its people.
 ''We can't be too harsh,'' he said. ''North and South, we share the same blood, after all. Of course, it's good to help them.'' His son, daughter-in-law and three grandchildren all agreed. 
 Once fervently anti-Communist, South Korea has slowly parted ways with the United States, its largest ally and wartime protector, on how to deal with the North. Across age groups and political persuasions, most South Koreans now appear to believe that their nation has no choice but to keep building ties with the North, despite the widespread shock and anger here over its nuclear test.
 This bedrock of public sentiment underlies the different responses to the crisis by South Korea and the United States. Many in Washington have called for tougher sanctions or even a naval blockade to further isolate the North's impoverished government and force it to relinquish its nuclear ambitions. But Seoul has been reluctant to tighten the economic screws on the North, hoping instead to entice it to the bargaining table with increased links with the outside world.
 This softer approach is a result of a deeper evolution in public perception here since the end of the cold war and South Korea's subsequent emergence as an Asian economic powerhouse. The changes were reflected in the personal political odyssey of the Kim family, three generations of whom gathered on a Sunday evening to discuss their perceptions of the North.
 The elder Mr. Kim, the family patriarch, was born in what is now North Korea and fled the brutality of the fledgling Communist government in a grueling winter boat ride. But his grandchildren, who have lived most of their lives in this high-rise community on the outskirts of the bustling South Korean capital, said they saw the North as too distant and poor to be a real threat.
 ''The nuclear test is scary, but not enough to feel like it has violated everyday life,'' said a granddaughter, Kim Ta-yon, a 21-year-old university junior in French literature. ''None of my friends think North Korea will actually attack.''
 Her mother, Song Yon-ju, 49, said she remembered the panic caused by military crises in previous decades, when she joined mad rushes to grocery stores to stock up on boxes of dried noodles. There have been no such panics this time, she said, which she attributed to South Koreans having grown weary of living in fear.
 She also said the continued desire to engage the North reflected a streak of pragmatism in a country where much of the population lived within range of North Korean artillery. A tougher policy would only push the North into deeper desperation, she said.
 ''Even a little mouse will bite if it's cornered,'' she warned quietly.
 Similar attitudes appear in recent public opinion polls, which show that while the claimed nuclear detonation hardened attitudes toward the North, a majority of South Koreans still oppose outright confrontation. According to a telephone survey of 800 people last week by the Naeil Shinmun-Hangil Research Center, only 15 percent of respondents called for ending economic ties, compared with 83 percent who supported their continuation. But most supporters agreed the current policy needed revisions, such as making it harder for North Korean leaders to profit from such ties.
 Political analysts say a big factor behind the desire to maintain economic ties is a deep ambivalence in South Korean views of the North. While the two Koreas still face each other across the minefields and barbed wire of the demilitarized zone, many South Koreans have come to see the North as nothing more than a destitute, misguided relative.
 ''South Korean people are caught in a dilemma between perceiving the North as a threat and as a brother,'' said Lee Nae-young, a political science professor at Korea University in Seoul. ''They felt betrayed by the nuclear test, but don't want aggressive sanctions, either.''
 These conflicting feelings toward the North were apparent in the conversation with the Kims. The elder Mr. Kim, who watched Communist troops gun down critics in his village and spent 20 years in the South Korean Air Force, warned that the North was still armed to the teeth. But he also said South Korea could not just close the door on North Korea and its famine-ravaged population.
 ''We have no choice,'' he said. ''We can't ignore the more than 20 million Koreans still living up there. They don't have enough rice.''
 His son, Kim Seok-kyeon, 49, a general manager at an insurance company who was born after the Korean War ended in 1953, agreed that his country could not go back to the confrontation of the cold war. He said there was no need because the North wasn't as fearsome as it used to be.
 ''They have more airplanes and tanks than we have,'' he said, ''but they have no fuel to put in them.''
 Another generation down, his son, 11-year-old Kim Dong-hyun, said he didn't worry about North Korea at all. When pressed, he described the country as ''crazy and harmless.''
 His two sisters, both in college, said their textbooks blandly described the North as a starving land where fellow Koreans spoke an antiquated dialect. This was a big change from the era of their father, the insurance executive, who grew up during the military dictatorships of the 1960's and 1970's. He said anti-Communist education ran through his schooling, with monthly homework assignments to make posters demonizing the North.
 The three generations of Kims also showed subtle differences in their views of America's role in the nuclear standoff. All agreed that the United States was a friend, and that the crisis had made them appreciate the protection offered by the American nuclear umbrella.
 But while the elder Mr. Kim expressed confidence that Washington was working to resolve the crisis, his granddaughters suggested that America bore some blame for the standoff -- a common sentiment here.
 ''If the U.S. isolates North Korea, it's just silencing someone who has something to say,'' said Kim Ta-yon, the university junior. ''I don't think North Korea did the test to provoke war, but because it wants a voice in international society.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Three generations of the Kim family gathered recently at the home of Kim Seok-kyeon, far right, near Seoul to discuss their views of North Korea. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); AIR FORCES (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%) Public Opinion; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Nuclear Tests

PERSON: Kim Yoon-sup; Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) North Korea; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



602 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Barre Journal; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Headstones Too Go Global, and One City Pays the Price 

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BARRE, Vt. 

 BODY:
This city of 9,000 bills itself as the ''granite capital of the world,'' its economic foundation built early in the last century with the light gray rock from nearby quarries.
 But the title is starting to ring hollow. Granite manufacturers here, nearly all of which specialize in making headstones and memorials, find themselves battling to compete in a rapidly changing market, hurt not only by a rise in cremations but also by the lower prices of their foreign competitors.
 ''We have to find a way to compete,'' said Charles Chatot, president of North Barre Granite. ''This is Barre gray granite. It's the top gray granite in the world.'' 
 For decades, the granite industry made Barre, near Montpelier, a boomtown and Vermont's biggest melting pot, drawing immigrants from Italy, Ireland, Poland and Canada. During their heyday, in the early-to-mid-20th century, the manufacturers here employed about 3,000 people.
 Today the number is only 1,500, said John P. Castaldo, executive director of the Barre Granite Association, and most of those are in sales or administration. Roughly 300 actually make headstones and memorials, working with heavy machinery, and those who still hand-carve granite are no more than six or so.
 The biggest problem during the last decade has been imported headstones, mostly from China and India, which cost about half as much as those made in Barre (pronounced BEAR-ee).
 ''The labor costs in China are significantly lower than they are here, and it's taking its toll on the American manufacturers,'' said Pennie Sabel, president of the International Cemetery and Funeral Association, a trade group. 
 Barre's manufacturers describe the quality of the imported stones as poor and say it shows, but to the typical customer the only difference is price. Further, Chinese companies are also producing black granite headstones, which are becoming more popular than gray ones.
 Amid the tough times, there is one kind of granite business here for which the times are flush. Cochran's Inc., for instance, is a headstone broker that works directly with Chinese headstone manufacturers. Peter Burke, a Cochran manager, said the ability to get intricately carved specialty headstones from the Chinese had doubled the company's profit margin on such stones, which, like others, are transported directly from China to a Barre warehouse where the lettering and finishing work are done.
 ''If we weren't doing this,'' Mr. Burke said, ''we wouldn't be doing so good right now. Everyone's saying, 'China's bad, it's hurting us.' It's not.''
 Imports aside, there is another factor putting pressure on Barre: while people joke that the monument business will never have a lack of customers, the popularity of cremations has certainly cut into the number of them.
 ''It hurts,'' Ms. Sabel said. ''People have a concept that if you cremate a body you don't need a memorial,'' although manufacturers here have recently started making headstones that open in the back, allowing families to place urns inside on a shelf.
 Limited space at cemeteries, as well as rules they adopt to maintain their appearance, is also weakening manufacturers' bottom line, since it means fewer chances to make large, elaborate headstones and mausoleums.
 ''Cemetery lots are smaller,'' said Louis P. Monti Jr., a monument dealer from Marlborough, Mass., who attended a trade show here in August. ''They want to make things as small and easy to maintain as possible.''
 Elgio Zorzi, 87, who started working in quarries as a teenager, who later founded Adams Granite in Montpelier and who retired in 1985, no longer recognizes the industry, both for its mechanization and for its international reach. Nor did he ever think he would see what has become a commonplace: a vast departure of the city's young men for occupations elsewhere, often with a stop first for college.
 ''They're all going to Burlington and not coming back,'' Mr. Zorzi said of teenagers flocking to the University of Vermont.
 This is not the only place reeling from foreign granite competition. Elberton, Ga., is the South's counterpart to Barre, with deep granite quarries that yield gray stone and a rich tradition of headstone manufacturing.
 ''What's hurting us is the Chinese and the Indians,'' said Tom Robinson, president of the Elberton Granite Association, which represents about 150 headstone and memorial plants. ''We can't really put a number on it, but there's no question we've lost jobs because we don't have the volume of sales we used to have.''
 ''I think we're battling back with a focus on selling Elberton products, fast delivery and good quality while doing business with people you know,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''There are no surprises here.''
 Like Elberton, Barre is trying to reposition itself. The industry is fighting back by pointing to its reputation and educating consumers about the difference between the cheaper imports and Barre's granite and craftsmanship.
 ''You can almost smell the roses on this headstone,'' Richard Tousignant, a salesman at Adams Granite, said of one local product. ''This is the best craftsmanship in the world. It's worth it. Would you want your grandparents' monument to be something made in China?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A statue of a stonecutter may still stand in the center of Barre, Vt., but the granite industry there, which specializes in headstones and memorials, is under growing pressure from Chinese and Indian exporters.
 ''We have to find a way to compete,'' said Charles Chatot of North Barre Granite, shown with a diamond-tipped saw that creates headstones. (Photographs by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times)Map of Vermont highlighting Barre: Barre was once a draw for immigrant labor. But that was long ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STONE MINING & QUARRYING (89%); CREMATION SERVICES (76%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%) Rock and Stone; Cremation; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Wages and Salaries; Granite

PERSON: Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (56%) VERMONT, USA (94%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%) Barre (Vt); China; India

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



603 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Might Increase Troop Levels in Baghdad
The top American military commander in Iraq said it was possible he might need to call for an increase in American troop levels in Baghdad to reinvigorate a plan to recapture the capital's streets from insurgents and death squads. A1

Overhead costs have consumed over half of the budget of some reconstruction projects in Iraq, according to a government estimate A1 


South Koreans Favor North Ties
Once fervently anti-Communist, South Korea has slowly parted ways with the United States on how to deal with the North, as most South Koreans now appear to believe that their nation has no choice but to keep building ties with the North. A3

Britain to Restrict Workers
Britain plans to severely restrict the ability of people from Bulgaria and Romania to work there after those two countries join the European Union, the government said. A6

Canadian Antiterror Ruling
A judge at the Ontario Supreme Court ruled that an ''essential element'' of Canada's antiterrorism laws was unconstitutional. The decision is the second rejection by a judge in less than a week of the antiterrorism laws. A11

NATIONAL A12-16

Hospitals Donate Care To Uninsured to Cut Costs
With the number of uninsured Americans reaching a record 46.6 million last year, up by 7 million from 2000, hospital systems around the country have decided that for many patients with chronic diseases, it would be cheaper to provide free preventive care than to absorb the high cost of repeated emergencies. A1

Single-Sex Classes to Expand
The Bush administration is giving public school districts new latitude to expand the number of single-sex classes and even schools, in what is widely considered the most significant policy change toward coeducational education since a landmark federal law barring sex discrimination more than 30 years ago. A1

Tuition Rises Fast at Colleges
Tuition and other costs at public and private universities rose faster than inflation this year, the College Board said in a report. But the increases were more measured than they have been in recent years. A12

Verdict in Journalist's Death
The second of two men accused of killing a retired New York Times reporter, David E. Rosenbaum, 63, was convicted of murder, robbery and other charges. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Pressure Builds on Hevesi To Resign in Ethics Case
Support for the embattled New York state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, eroded swiftly as allegations that he broke the law by using state employees to chauffeur his wife prompted calls for his resignation from top Republicans, a well-known civics group and even some fellow Democrats. B1

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Cardinals Win Game 3
Cardinals starter Chris Carpenter pitched eight shutout innings as St. Louis defeated Detroit, 6-0, in Game 3 of the World Series. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Vietnam's Eager Economy
Vietnam has become Asia's second-fastest-growing economy. And now, trade negotiators are preparing to put the finishing touches on an agreement for Vietnam to join the World Trade Organization. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: A Congressional endorsement; throwing back the big fish; the wrong partner in Israel; Verlyn Klinkenborg on these dark October mornings.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword B8
TV Listings B9
Weather C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MURDER (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); VERDICTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ETHICS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (65%); JOURNALISM (65%); CHRONIC DISEASES (64%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); BASEBALL (61%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); IRAQ (91%); EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



604 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Reader Responses

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The following are excerpts of reader responses to David Leonhardt's Oct. 25 column on the minimum wage:
 Congress has come up with a better solution the Earned Income Tax Credit. I believe the evidence shows this program can solve many problems cited in your column, increasing the incomes of lower earners who are using that money to support themselves while preserving minimum wage employment opportunities for youth. 
I think that the EITC is a great program and these minimum wage efforts are an example of trying the worst solution first.
 Abigail Wozniak
 Thanks for the historical perspective. For a geographical one, in the United Kingdom, the minimum wage, at over $10, is almost twice what it is in the U.S., and the U.K. economy continues to prosper. Over a period of regular increases, there seems to be little correlation between minimum wage and economic performance there.
 Richard Guha
 It seems the argument that a minimum wage causes significant unemployment has been lost. I wonder though what effect a minimum wage has on adding fuel to the engine of the black economy. In your country, as in mine, Ireland, there is the question of where immigrants end up fitting into the economy - often they end up in the black economy. I wonder if a minimum wage encourages unscrupulous employers in more casual industries to hire on the black market at lower rates? 
 But probably the key measure of a society in terms of its economic structure is not the size of the minimum wage, but the portion of workers who depend on it. Making decisions that alter that balance are more challenging and can only be addressed if the issue of inequality is addressed. Given that six states are voting on the minimum wage, this is obviously a debate about low-paid workers. Can that ever broaden into a much wider debate about the allocation of wealth in general?
 Higher value, and harder working individuals deserve to be rewarded. But I believe that very often tax cuts and outrageous corporate remuneration have lost all proportion and are the cement in that great wall that divides the halves from the halve-nots.
 Ciaran McGuinness
 The buying power of lower end and middle class workers has decreased to a disheartening level even as the number of jobs that are available has increased.
 The argument is often made by businesses and corporations that an increase in taxes, benefits or the minimum wage will sap money that would otherwise be used to create new jobs. This line of thought is mendacious to say the least. The money that corporations allege would be used for expansion of the workforce or upgrade of the physical plant, are more often than not used to either compensate upper management in the form of bonuses, mollify stock holders with unusually high dividends, or both. The idea that those in charge of the money would think of the proverbial little guy or even think of the economic health of the country rather than their own pockets is, to me, quite laughable. If workers could raise their own pay or give themselves bonuses, they would, and probably would be more deserving of them. 
 Paint me cynical but the increasing levels of self-centered money grabbing that have garnered headlines over the past thirty years provide me with little hope that anything but a voter's revolt against this waste will alleviate the suffering of the millions of people who work yet can't make ends meet.
 Paul Arzooman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



605 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

VIETNAM'S ECONOMIC GROWTH -- In the three decades since Vietnam has gone from communism to a form of capitalism, it has become Asia's second-fastest-growing economy, trailing only China's. And now, in the latest sign of its economic vitality, trade negotiators are preparing to put the finishing touches on an agreement for Vietnam to join the World Trade Organization. [Page A1.] 


MORE THAN HOME IMPROVEMENT -- Home Depot is displaying a growing willingness to stray from its single-minded focus on home improvement. The company's experiment with everyday products like gas, cigarettes and seasonal decorations exemplifies the belief of the chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, above, that Home Depot can not only survive a downturn in the housing market unscathed, but exploit the situation by plowing money into the chain. [C1.]

SCOUTING FOR ONLINE TALENT -- One of Hollywood's top five talent agencies, the United Talent Agency, has created an online unit solely devoted to scouting out up-and-coming creators of Internet content -- particularly video -- and finding work for them in Web-based advertising and entertainment as well as in the older media. [C1.]

CONCERNS ON RADIO PLAY -- In the last two weeks, songs from two record labels -- both distributed through Vivendi's Universal Music Group -- got a lift on the charts after a radio chain was paid to play the tunes in an advertising program that New York state officials say is used to trick radio programmers. The ad purchases come five months after Universal settled accusations that it bribed radio programmers with gifts like laptop computers and luxury hotel stays in exchange for airplay. [C1.]

A NOD TO PREVENTIVE CARE -- With the number of uninsured Americans reaching a record 46.6 million last year, a handful of hospital systems around the country have done the math and decided that for many patients with chronic diseases, it would be cheaper to provide free preventive care than to absorb the high cost of repeated emergencies. [A1.]

WAL-MART'S UPSCALE WOES -- The chief executive of Wal-Mart Stores, H. Lee Scott Jr., said the introduction of upscale products, like silk camisoles and 300-thread-count sheets, has proven ''choppier than it should be'' and the company has ''moved too far too fast'' with fashionable clothing. [C3.]

PUBLISHERS THINK GREEN -- Media companies have published numerous articles on greenhouse emissions in recent years. Now, large publishers like Time Inc. and Hearst are starting to think about their own production of emissions that contribute to global warming. Advertising. [C3.]

FINANCE CHIEF INDICTED -- Robert C. Trosten, the former finance chief of Refco, once one of the world's largest commodities brokerage firms, was indicted, accused of helping to hide hundreds of millions of losses. [C3.]

EUROPE PRESSURES CHINA -- The European Union told China that it could face barriers to its booming exports like clothes, shoes and electronic goods if it did not work toward creating a two-way street for global commerce. [C4.]

BELLSOUTH'S PARTING GIFT -- BellSouth, which is preparing to be gobbled up by the telecommunications giant AT&T, left investors a parting gift with news that its third-quarter profit jumped by almost a third, to $1.1 billion. [C6.]

UNLIKELY USES FOR RICO -- Some corporations are using the RICO statutes, often associated with mob bosses and corrupt union chiefs, to attack other companies, including many that have headquarters overseas. On Monday, Vivendi, the French media and telecommunications company, became the latest company willing to take that leap when it sued Deutsche Telekom for $7.5 billion in United States District Court in Seattle. [C6.]

BP'S PROFIT SHRINKS -- Third-quarter profit at the energy company BP declined 3.6 percent, slumping on lost Alaskan production, higher taxes in Britain and a sharp drop in gasoline prices. [C10.]

DISPUTE OVER A COMMA -- A dispute between Rogers Communications of Toronto, Canada's largest cable television provider, and a telephone company in Atlantic Canada, Bell Aliant, turns on a single comma in the 14-page contract, and the resolution is worth 1 million Canadian dollars ($888,000). [C10.]

AMAZON PULLS BACK ON SPENDING -- Going into the critical holiday shopping season, Amazon.com, the giant online retailer, said it would slow its investment in new technology in a bid to start reaping the rewards of its continuing growth. It reported that its third-quarter earnings fell by more than a third, even as its sales rose 24 percent. [C1.]

MANY FIRSTS FOR NEW CHIEF -- Cynthia Carroll, a longtime executive at the aluminum producer Alcan, is to become the first woman, outsider and non-South African chief executive at Anglo American, the mining giant based in London. [C10.]

NEW RULES AT N.Y.S.E. -- The New York Stock Exchange moved to bar Wall Street firms from casting votes on behalf of customers who do not provide voting instructions on corporate proxy matters. [C12.]

SLOW DAY ON WALL STREET -- Wall Street wobbled through a listless session and closed mixed as investors awaited the results of this week's Federal Reserve meeting. [C12.]

DEATH OF A RECORD STORE -- The liquidation of the retail chain Tower Records will have a severe impact on niche markets like classical music. According to one industry insider's estimate, Tower Records alone accounted for up to 50 percent of sales in the specialty genres. [E1.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Amazon.com's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALENT AGENTS (88%); PUBLISHING (87%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (67%); HOSPITALS (62%); CHRONIC DISEASES (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (82%); TIME INC (60%); UNITED TALENT AGENCY (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (82%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (55%); H LEE SCOTT JR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VIET NAM (95%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



606 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: The Hidden Life of Paper and Its Impact on the Environment 

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
MEDIA companies have published numerous articles on global warming and greenhouse emissions in recent years. Now, a couple of large publishers are starting to think about their own impact on the environment.
 Time Inc. participated in a study published this year by the Heinz Center that calculated the amount of carbon dioxide emissions produced over the entire process of publishing Time and In Style.
 Other magazine companies, including the Hearst Corporation, now say they are studying the Heinz report to consider the implications for their magazines, and Rupert Murdoch recently announced that the News Corporation is developing a plan to become entirely carbon neutral, meaning the company will reduce its carbon emissions and try to offset the emissions left over. 
 ''We've recognized that these are issues that are important to our readers and, increasingly, important to our advertisers,'' said David J. Refkin, the director of sustainable development for the Time Inc. division of Time Warner and a member of the board of the Heinz Center. ''We're starting to see a movement where becoming carbon neutral is something many companies are considering.'' 
 Large-scale manufacturing is, of course, better known as a source of the greenhouse gases that many scientists say cause global warming. Electric power production represents about 40 percent of emissions in the United States, and private motor vehicle use accounts for about 20 percent, said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences at Princeton University. 
 Still, the paper industry is not without its impact. Because of its consumption of energy, the industry -- which includes magazines, newspapers, catalogs and writing paper -- emits the fourth-highest level of carbon dioxide among manufacturers, according to a 2002 study by the Energy Information Administration, a division of the Department of Energy. The paper industry follows the chemical, petroleum and coal products, and primary metals industries. 
 ''Few people realize the sheer scale and magnitude of activities it takes to produce millions of copies of a magazine,'' said Donald Carli, a senior research fellow at the Institute for Sustainable Communication, a nonprofit group in New York that is working to help advertisers estimate their ads' greenhouse emissions. ''There's a hidden life that products have, and one of the challenges of sustainability is to make these lives known.''
 The life of a magazine or a newspaper starts with trees being cut down in a forest and ends with the burning or recycling of old magazines or papers. The most harmful part of the process is paper production. Breaking down wood fiber to make paper consumes a lot of energy, which in many cases comes from coal plants. 
 Time Inc. and the News Corporation are ahead of most publishers in their public commitment to reducing carbon emissions. Other media companies contacted for this article-- including Dow Jones, The New York Times Company and Conde Nast -- would not comment on the levels of emissions produced by their publications.
 ''It's something new to the industry, apparently,'' said Jan Angilella, spokeswoman for Newsweek, which is owned by the Washington Post Company. ''We're working with printers and paper mills to see if there's something more to be done.''
 Recent reductions in paper size at many newspapers and declining circulation at many newspapers will, of course, also reduce the level of carbon emissions at paper mills. Numerous publications have taken steps to use more recycled paper -- which helps decrease the number of trees used.
 Time Inc.'s study found that greenhouse emissions from one of its paper mills accounted for 61 percent of the emissions from Time magazine and 77 percent of In Style's emissions. In May, Time Inc. announced that it had asked the company's paper suppliers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2012.
 Mr. Refkin said the idea of sustainability -- an emphasis on improving society and the environment for future generations -- had come up recently in discussions with advertisers like Aveda, a beauty products company owned by Estee Lauder. Aveda sends sustainability surveys to publications to help decide where to place its ads. The surveys include questions about greenhouse emissions. 
 ''As a company that advertises in magazines, we play an important role in encouraging publishers to better their environmental practices,'' said Tanya Rogosheske, an advertising manager for Aveda. ''Magazine publishers pay close attention to our interests and are receptive to environmental concerns. They become more receptive when they realize how important it is to their advertising revenue.'' 
 A number of companies, including General Electric, Home Depot, Ford Motor, BP and Wal-Mart Stores, have been putting greater emphasis on reducing the environmental impact of their products. And Time Inc. admits that environmentally focused companies are particularly interested in advertising in Time Inc. magazines when they run articles and special editions about the environment.
 Consumers are also becoming more aware of the impact of greenhouse emissions. Mr. Refkin of Time Inc. said he thought some of that awareness came from Al Gore's recent movie ''An Inconvenient Truth'' and from coverage of Hurricane Katrina that said the hurricane's extreme force might have been related to global warming.
 ''Probably five years ago, if somebody said something about carbon, the average consumer wouldn't know what you were talking about,'' said Tom Pollock, project manager at Metafore, a nonprofit environmental group. Metafore helped organize the Paper Working Group, which is trying to change paper-buying practices.
 ''CO2 and other greenhouse gases are subjects that people are looking to now since global warming is more and more in the public eye,'' Mr. Pollock said.
 Time Inc. is the only media company that is a member of the Paper Working Group, which also includes McDonald's, Starbucks and Bank of America.
 One way companies can become carbon neutral is to buy offsets: guarantees that carbon-lowering actions like planting trees will take place to make up for greenhouse emissions. If Time Inc., for example, wanted to buy offsets to make up for the emissions from Time magazine, it would cost about $2,500 weekly, Mr. Refkin said. Time's study found that an average copy of Time caused about 0.29 pound of greenhouse gas emissions.
 It is unclear whether In Style's and Time magazine's levels of greenhouse gas emissions are representative of other publications because emissions depend heavily on the source of paper. Time does not currently plan to become completely carbon neutral in the future, Mr. Refkin said.
 One In Style advertiser is currently creating a way for it to pay for its own carbon offsets. John Hardy, a luxury jewelry company based in Bali, has formed a partnership with the Institute for Sustainable Communication to request that publishers release information on their paper and printing sources. Mr. Carli of the institute will then estimate the total carbon emissions for all of John Hardy's advertising across several publications. 
 Mr. Carli plans to develop a repository of information about many publications' practices so that he can give greenhouse gas estimates to any other advertiser that also wishes to offset the emissions from its ads. 
 Mr. Carli estimates that John Hardy's advertisements this year account for roughly 451 metric tons of greenhouse gases. To convert enough carbon dioxide into oxygen to offset the company's magazine ads, the company plans to plant bambooon the Balinese island of Nusa Penida. The bamboo needed will cover an area about the size of four football fields.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The logo for a program that encourages advertisers to offset the carbon emissions created by their ads.
 Time is seeking ways to reduce its effect on the environment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); PAPER MILLS (89%); PAPER MFG (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); COAL INDUSTRY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Magazines; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Weather ; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); HEARST CORP (84%); NEWS CORP (84%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%) Time Inc; Heinz Center; News Corp

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (55%) Louise Story

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



607 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: A Cappuccino With the 2x4's?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
How does the nation's largest home improvement retailer weather the worst housing market in a decade? 
 With a pack of cigarettes, a cup of coffee and an inflatable Halloween decoration.
As Home Depot grapples with an economy that is stacked against it -- the number of new building permits plunged by 6.3 percent in September alone -- executives here are rushing to renovate the company's strategy by selling more than just home improvement products.
 The shelves are still jammed with nails, drills and light switches, but Home Depot is displaying a growing willingness to stray from the single-minded focus on kitchen renovations and roof repair that turned the chain into the nation's second-largest retailer, after Wal-Mart. 
 A new convenience store, being tested in the parking lots of Home Depot stores in Tennessee and Georgia, dispenses gas, washes cars and sells Camel Lights. 
 Inside the main stores, space for seasonal decorations, once an afterthought for the chain, has doubled, resulting in $60 mummies at the end of the paint aisle. 
 If that was not enough, there are candy bars at the checkout counter -- anathema to company founders, who zealously protected the chain from products that did not, as the chain's motto intones, improve home improvement. 
 The experiment with everyday products -- and a $350 million program to overhaul the look of 500 stores -- exemplifies the belief of the chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, that Home Depot can not only survive a downturn in the housing market, but can exploit the situation by plowing money into the chain. 
 ''It's counter to everything you know about retail,'' Mr. Nardelli said. ''But we want to gain market share in a down market.''
 Mr. Nardelli, a former General Electric executive who owes no loyalty to the retailer's founders, is unapologetic about the changes. ''You've got to make sure your intellectual arrogance doesn't get in the way of selling something,'' he said recently at a store outside Atlanta.
 But even company insiders concede the flurry of witches and Snickers bars has left them uneasy. ''I lose some sleep over that,'' said Tom Taylor, the former executive vice president for merchandising who now consults for the company. When employees proposed expanding the Halloween display at the front of the store, Mr. Taylor recalled, his response was ''Guys, you are kidding me.''
 Much has been made of Mr. Nardelli's decision to spend more than $7 billion over the last five years bulking up Home Depot Supply, which provides pipes, lumber and concrete to professional builders, cracking open a lucrative new market for the company. The fast-growing division accounts for about 13 percent of revenue, or $12 billion of Home Depot's $90 billion in annual sales -- and is on track to contribute $25 billion by 2010, company executives said.
 But to kickstart Home Depot's stagnant stock price, Mr. Nardelli has to persuade investors he can steer the retail division through a housing slump with no end in sight. Home Depot's share price closed yesterday at $36.50, up 26 cents; shares were trading around $45 when Mr. Nardelli became chief executive in late 2000.
 ''Maybe diversifying the business is a good long-term move,'' said Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management, which sold all of its Home Depot shares in June. ''But only rising same-store sales would get this stock price up right now.''
 To improve same-store sales -- revenue from stores open at least a year -- Mr. Nardelli is remodeling product displays in 500 of the chain's busiest stores, producing more detailed signs, arranging merchandise on easier-to-access shelves and offering a broader range of products.
 And he is ratcheting up staffing in the stores. In the second half of the year, traditionally the time when home improvement chains reduce employee workloads to match slower customer demand, Home Depot has added 5.5 million hours -- the equivalent of 2 to 3 additional employees per store -- to the payroll, at a cost of about $100 million. 
 Mr. Nardelli called the store investments ''gutsy calls,'' given the state of the housing market, and notes that Home Depot's archrival, Lowe's, has reduced staffing since the summer, as it does every year. 
 It is unclear which strategy will prevail -- bowing to market realities and cutting back or plowing money into stores and hoping customers notice the improvements. 
 ''If the overall home improvement business shrinks,'' Mr. Nardelli said, ''by having an aggressive strategy, you have a chance of at least holding on to your position.''
 There is no doubt the business is shrinking. Existing- and new-home sales have slowed, prices are sliding and housing industry experts foresee a slump that may last well into 2007. 
 Mr. Nardelli is not shy about discussing the troubles. ''We have a close relationship to home builders,'' he said, ''and I have never seen them so aggressive to pull back.''
 The slowdown, he said, ''impacts us directly.''
 One reason is that with housing prices falling, Americans are more focused on small-scale remodeling and repair projects than extravagant renovations, which are less likely to bolster home values as significantly as they did in the past. 
 So the chain is emphasizing products that a cost-conscious home owner would buy: a sleeker sink, a fancier light fixture in the kitchen, a brighter coat of paint for the hallway walls. 
 New signs, part of the product display overhaul, compare product benefits, encouraging customers to trade up to a higher-end brand (and, hypothetically, appeal to female customers, whom the chain is frequently accused of overlooking). Bigger floor displays showcase coordinated bathroom tubs, vanities and tiles just as they would appear in a finished room. 
 At one store outside Atlanta, the chain has erected a second-floor mezzanine that doubles the number of appliances that can be displayed without knocking down walls and incurring expensive new construction costs. 
 Americans may not be trading up to expensive new houses, but, according to Home Depot executives, they are eager to buy more costly washing machines and dryers, like the $1,500 candy red LG models on the mezzanine of a store outside Atlanta. 
 The convenience stores are another concession that, to grow, Home Depot needs to look beyond home improvement. The 2,700-square-foot stores look like tiny Home Depots, with orange trim and stone exteriors. But inside, they stock products Home Depot has never sold: sandwiches, ice, beer and coffee -- even lattes, cappuccinos and the flavor of the month, pumpkin spice.
 The potential customer for the stores, executives said, is anyone who happens to drive by a Home Depot store. But the target is the professional contractor, a reliable Home Depot customer whose product needs may be changing in this slower housing market, but who will still need to fill a cooler on the way to project site.
 To accommodate contractors, the stores stock industrial-size ice bags and brew enough coffee to fill dozens of big thermoses. The car washes can handle large trucks. There are now three convenience stores -- two in Tennessee, one in Georgia -- with plans for up to 300 by 2010. 
 And what of Lowe's? The chain sells bottled water and has a growing seasonal decoration department, but it has no plans to match the range of products at Home Depot's convenience stores, a spokeswoman, Chris Ahearn, said.
 Wall Street, ever hungry for growth, has endorsed the changes at Home Depot. But several analysts and retail industry consultants said the company must still win over a significant group of consumers who, right or wrong, associate the chain with shoddy service. 
 ''They've run things lean and mean for too long, and the customer service culture has suffered badly,'' said George Whalin, president of Retail Management Consultants in San Marcos, Calif. (Mr. Nardelli recently created a senior-level position to monitor and resolve complaints.) 
 Of course, the convenience store, expanded space for holiday decorations, and cash register candy displays represent a small sliver of Home Depot's business, but the shift that they symbolize is potent. 
 Home Depot's founders, Bernard Marcus and Arthur Blank, explicitly banned such products from their stores, arguing they would dilute the company's focus on the home. But Mr. Taylor, the former merchandising executive who originally balked at the changes, said it was hard to argue with the sales figures. In several Florida stores, he said, 35 percent of shoppers leave with a beverage.
 Mr. Nardelli, standing in the middle of a store here, declared himself ''obsessed with growth'' -- whether from candy bars or appliances or pipe-making companies. 
 ''Watch this,'' he said, pointing excitedly at a refrigerated display case at a Home Depot store in a suburb outside Atlanta. A scruffy construction worker, the kind Home Depot has relied on for decades to buy surge protectors, paint rollers and screw drivers, yanked a Diet Coke from the shelf. 
 ''Coke products,'' Mr. Nardelli said, ''sell very well at our stores.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Christmas decorations, food, fuel and cigarettes, and a larger display of appliances are the order of the day at a Home Depot and nearby convenience store in the greater Atlanta area. (Photographs by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
At the convenience store in Georgia, fuel is part of the equation.
 Robert L. Nardelli, center, the chief executive of Home Depot, walks through an Atlanta-area store with managers. (Photographs by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (91%); HOME CENTERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HALLOWEEN (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); CONVENIENCE STORES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Company and Organization Profiles; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Home Depot Inc

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (89%) Michael Barbaro; Claudia H Deutsch; Robert L Nardelli

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



608 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam's Roaring Economy Is Set for World Stage

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam 

 BODY:
Nearly four decades ago, South Vietnamese leaders mapped out their battle plans inside the presidential palace here. When they lost the war, the palace became the base for the Ho Chi Minh City People's Committee, which worked to impose tight Communist control.
 But in September it was the scene of a very different gathering: a board meeting of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
In the three decades since Vietnam has gone from communism to a form of capitalism, it has begun surpassing many neighbors. It has Asia's second-fastest-growing economy, with 8.4 percent growth last year, trailing only China's, and the pace of exports to the United States is rising faster than even China's. 
 American companies like Intel and Nike, and investors across the region, are pouring billions of dollars into the country; overseas Vietnamese are returning to run the ventures. 
 In the latest sign of Vietnam's economic vitality, trade negotiators from around the world are preparing, after more than a decade of talks, to put the finishing touches on an agreement, possibly by Oct. 26, for Vietnam to join the World Trade Organization. President Bush, President Hu Jintao of China, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and other heads of state plan to come to Hanoi in mid-November for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting. 
 For Vietnam, the meeting will be a coming-out party, critical to its pride in much the way the 2008 Olympics in Beijing are for China. 
 ''I think they are the next China,'' said Michael R. P. Smith, chief executive of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. ''It's not the scale of China, but it's a significant economy.''
 Through the end of last year; Vietnam's growth rate exceeded that of Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan, South Korea and even India, its closest rival.
 The latest Asian economic tiger, Vietnam now produces and uses more cement than France, its former colonial ruler. The main index for the Ho Chi Minh City stock market and a smaller exchange in Hanoi have nearly doubled in value this year. Vietnam has become the talk of investment bankers and investors across Asia.
 But with such growth has come controversy, here and in the United States. Republicans in Congress are divided over a coming vote soon after the midterm elections: Should the United States grant permanent, full trade relations to Vietnam, given the two countries' history and Vietnam's current position, where it sells almost nine times as much to Americans as it buys? 
 Corporate America is divided, too, over a Bush administration initiative to win votes for full trade status by throwing a bone late in September to Southern senators representing states where textiles are made. Vietnamese officials are furious with Washington over what they see as a last-minute protectionist attempt to limit the exports of their country's booming garment industry.
 In Vietnam, nearly double-digit growth is starting to produce the same shortages of skilled labor as in India and China. Executives at multinationals like Groupe Lafarge of France and Prudential of Britain say that local accountants, human relations managers and other professionals are so scarce that salaries are soaring 30 percent to 50 percent a year.
 Many educated Vietnamese now are like Ha Nguyen, 34, a chemical engineer who is working at his third job in three years, having received big raises each time he changed companies. ''Right now, it's easy in Vietnam to find a job,'' he said, pausing while doing a chemical analysis of cement quality at a corporate laboratory here.
 Roads and ports in this country are increasingly choked with cars and ships, the congestion worse than China's but not yet as bad as India's. Yet deep-seated corruption has slowed construction; the government has put the brakes on highway building across northern Vietnam this year after uncovering a graft scandal that led to resignations and detentions all the way to the top of the Transport Ministry.
 Balanced against these problems is a government that, like China's, has embraced capitalism after becoming disillusioned with the widespread poverty and sometimes hunger that accompanied tight state control of the economy.
 Economic liberalization policies have been pursued in earnest since the early 90's, after poor harvests and economic mismanagement left millions facing malnutrition in 1990.
 Among the architects of this change are a handful of bright economists like Le Dang Doanh, a top adviser to the government and the Communist Party who studied in the old Soviet Union and East Germany but became deeply disillusioned with the corruption and inefficiency of state-owned industries.
 ''The reform is definitely irreversible,'' Mr. Doanh said. ''Any attempt to come back to a centrally planned economy, to overplay the state sector, is economically irrational, inefficient and psychologically is counterproductive.''
 If anything, Vietnam has leaned in the other direction. The Finance Ministry has just produced a draft personal-taxation law, expected to be approved by January, that offers more tax breaks for the wealthy than the United States does. Inheritances among immediate family members will be entirely exempt from taxation. So will interest on all but the largest bank accounts, and a fierce debate is under way over whether capital gains should be taxed.
 And in some ways, Vietnam is more pro-business than China. Reluctant to anger city dwellers, state-owned power companies in China minimize blackouts in residential areas but cut off power to factories as much as three days a week, forcing them to run on costly diesel generators.
 Vietnam takes the opposite course. Takashima Masayuki, general director of a Japanese-owned factory that makes shirts and jackets in Bien Hoa city, said the factory did not even have a generator because the authorities never allowed power to be cut off in the industrial zone where it is situated. By contrast, Ho Chi Minh City residents say they have brief power interruptions as often as twice a day.
 Like China and India, Vietnam has benefited enormously from the return of a diaspora -- people who had fled the country. Thousands of overseas Vietnamese have come home after learning English, gaining entrepreneurial experience and acquiring technical skills.
 Phu Than, Intel's country manager for Vietnam and Indochina, was 14 when he was evacuated in the last days before the fall of Saigon, leaving by helicopter with his mother, an employee of the old American Consulate in Danang.
 He earned an electrical engineering degree from the University of California, Davis, then joined Intel and now oversees the largest foreign investment in Vietnam, the construction of a semiconductor assembly and test factory that will cost $300 million for the first phase and another $300 million for a likely expansion later.
 American businesses are catching on to Vietnam's attractions, but they still lag behind Taiwan companies, which are the biggest foreign investors in Vietnam, followed by Singapore. 
 Vietnam's appeal to foreign companies rests on its young labor pool. Three-fifths of its 84 million people are under 27. And with a policy of limiting families to two children, as distinct from China's one, Vietnam will continue for many years to have a large proportion of hard-working low-skill employees.
 Typical is Nguyen Thi Hong, 30, who rides each morning on her rusty bicycle to stand outside factories and look for work in Bien Hoa, 15 miles northeast of Ho Chi Minh City; in China, factories advertise far and wide even for unskilled workers. 
 A brightly patterned kerchief protecting her from air pollution, Mrs. Hong said she and her husband, a mechanic who has found work here, have left their year-old son with his parents in their hometown in the central part of the country.
 Vietnam has reduced the percentage of its people living in abject poverty -- less than $1 a day -- to 8 percent from 51 percent in 1990, a greater advance than either China or India. 
 But incomes are still far short of Western levels. Few of these Vietnamese can afford to eat American beef or fly in Boeing jets. The country's trade surplus with the United States has soared -- it exported $5.56 billion worth of goods to the American market in the first eight months of this year while importing $625.9 million.
 That imbalance, much of it in the garment industry, has complicated the Bush administration's effort to persuade lawmakers to approve normal trade relations with Vietnam. The administration tried to shore up support by sending a letter on Sept. 28 to two Republican senators, Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, saying that the Commerce Department may file its own antidumping cases against low-price shipments of Vietnamese clothing without waiting for American companies to do so.
 But the letter has upset retailers and other importers, who worry that they may end up paying any punitive duties that are imposed.
 ''The retail industry is really split on this,'' said Brad Figel, the government affairs director at Nike, which remains in favor of the bill and is seeking clarification of administration policy.
 Antidumping duties are an emotional issue in Vietnam, after the United States imposed them on catfish exports three years ago and the European Union recently imposed them on Vietnamese and Chinese shoe exports. Vietnamese officials warn that dumping cases could hurt the regulatory environment for American businesses and cause layoffs at garment factories, where most workers are low-income women.
 ''These people suffered from the war a lot already, and we would not want them to suffer again,'' said Nguyen Anh Tuan, vice director of Vietnam's Foreign Investment Agency. ''American investors should not lose their foothold in Vietnam.''
 Talk to garment-factory workers in Vietnam these days, though, and they are looking forward to a future where their children live far better than they do. ''My parents were very poor,'' said Nguyen Thu Hoai, 28, said as she folded green Nike jackets in a state-owned factory in Ho Chi Minh City.
 ''But I will be able to give my son a good education,'' she said, describing a modest Prudential life insurance policy she bought for her 2-year-old son that includes a savings fund for educational expenses. ''He will have more opportunities.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A garment factory in Bien Hoa, Vietnam, typifies export industries that hope for full American trade status. (Photo by Chau Doan for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
In Dong Nai, Vietnam, workers from a factory of Groupe Lafarge loaded cement onto a boat.
Electrical power is plentiful in the industrial zone of Bien Hoa city, in contrast to interruptions elsewhere. (Photographs by Chau Doan for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''2005, real economic growth''CHINA: 9.9%VIETNAM: 8.4%INDIA: 7.6%(Source by C.I.A. World Factbook)(pg. A1)Chart: ''A Fast-Growing Economy . . .''China is consistently outpacing Vietnam, but otherwise India is one of its few real Asian rivals.Graph tracks gross domestic product, at an annual rate, for China, Vietnam and India since 2000.Chart: ''. . . With a Rising Trade Surplus''Vietnam's trade surplus with the United States has grown quickly.Graph tracks United States trade with Vietnam (imports from Vietnam and exports to Vietnam) since 2000.(Sources by CEIC Data
UBS
 Census Bureau, foreign trade division)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); APPAREL MFG (74%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); OLYMPICS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); LEGISLATION (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Foreign Investments; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%); INTEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) World Trade Organization

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Keith Bradsher; Le Dang Doanh

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (94%); INDIA (94%); VIETNAM (94%); HONG KONG (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%) Vietnam; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; Vietnam; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



609 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Venezuela Diatribe Backfires
Ridicule of President Bush by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez at the United Nations may have scuttled his country's effort to win a Security Council seat. PAGE A6

Verdict in Reporter's Death 

The second of two men accused of killing David E. Rosenbaum, a retired reporter for The New York Times, was convicted of murder, robbery and other charges. PAGE A16

Museum Project Called Off
The Dia Art Foundation has abandoned plans to open a museum at the High Line, a derelict West Side railway now being converted into a 22-block urban park. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Cardinals Take Series Edge
The Cardinals, behind the pitching of Chris Carpenter and a two-run double by Jim Edmonds, beat the Detroit Tigers, 5-0, in St. Louis to take a lead of two games to one in the World Series. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

SPECIAL TODAY

Cars
Innovative small cars are changing American highways and outselling popular sport utility vehicles. They offer impressive fuel economy and a fresh opportunity for consumers to express themselves. SECTION G

Italy vs. Italy: An Eat-Off
Two great Italian food regions, Emilia-Romana, where swine and Parmesan rule, and Piedmont, where it's white truffles and chocolate, are given a palate test by Frank Bruni. DINING, PAGE F1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MURDER (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); BASEBALL (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (56%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



610 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Tuition Again Rises Faster Than Inflation, Board Finds

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Tuition and other costs at public and private universities rose faster than inflation this year, the College Board said in a report released Tuesday. But the increases were more measured than in recent years.
 In the report, the board also found that in the past five years, tuition and fees at public institutions rose more than at any other time in the past 30, increasing by 35 percent to $5,836 this academic year. Tuition and fees at private four-year colleges increased by 11 percent over the same period, though the average price of attending a private institution is $22,218.
''Neither student aid funds nor family incomes are keeping pace with college prices,'' Gaston Caperton, president of the board, said at a news conference. ''This is a serious problem that must be addressed.'' 
 The tuition and fees figures in the report are the so-called sticker prices, which do not reflect discounts students receive in the form of grant aid and tax benefits. Such aid reached about $9,000 at private four-year institutions, $3,100 at public ones and $2,200 at two-year institutions, the report said.
 Although many students do not pay the sticker price, the cost of attending public and private universities has consistently outstripped the rate of inflation. Last year, the Consumer Price Index, a standard measure of changes in the cost of goods and services, rose by 3.4 percent. Tuition, fees, room and board have increased this year by more than 5.5 percent at both public and private four-year institutions.
 The price increases at public universities are largely the result of declining federal and state support, the report said. 
 Margaret Spellings, secretary of education, said in a statement that the report ''underscores the need to make colleges and universities more accountable for results and at the same time increase need-based aid.''
 Because of cost increases, students and their families are increasingly turning to loans. Private loans, which are not guaranteed by the federal government, generally have less favorable terms than federal loans, but are the fastest-growing option for financing higher education. Last year they totaled more than $17 billion. 
 At the same time, the average Pell grant, the federal government's grant to the neediest students, declined last year for the first time in 10 years, falling to $2,354 a year. Sandy Baum, senior policy analyst at the College Board and a professor of economics at Skidmore College in New York, said the decline resulted from a change in the formula for calculating Pell grant awards.
 ''Grant aid has failed to keep pace with the posted tuition charges,'' Robert Shireman, executive director of the Project on Student Debt, which is financed primarily by the Pew Charitable Trusts, said in a statement in response to the College Board report. ''Income for most American families has stagnated, leaving students and their parents with little choice but to turn to loans.'' 
 The College Board report, which is compiled annually, drew on a survey of 2,677 public and private nonprofit institutions, as well as data from government agencies and other organizations, like the National Association of State Student Grant and Aid Programs. The survey was sent out in October 2005, and collected by August this year. 
 In the current academic year, the average cost of tuition, fees, and room and board at public four-year universities, attended by about 35 percent of undergraduates, was $12,796, up 5.6 percent from $12,115 last year, according to the report. At private four-year colleges and universities, attended by 16 percent of undergraduates, those costs were far greater: $30,367, up 5.7 percent from last year.
 There are not enough data to measure room and board costs at two-year public institutions, attended by 41 percent of undergraduates, but tuition and fees rose 4.2 percent to $2,272, up from $2,182 last year. 
 Asked to predict future changes in tuition, Ms. Baum told reporters, ''We predict that it will go up, not down.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FAMILY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Tuition ; Pell Grants; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%) College Board

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (78%) Jonathan D Glater; Margaret (Sec) Spellings

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



611 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Really Cold War

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The Berlin Wall fell almost 17 years ago. At the time, the future seemed clear: The fall of the wall would unleash an unstoppable tide of free markets and free people -- and for about 15 years it did just that. Today, though, when you stand where the Berlin Wall once stood and look east, you see a countertide coming your way. It is a black tide of petro-authoritarianism emanating from Russia, and it is blunting the Berlin Wall tide of free markets and free people.
 Why? Russia is a classic example of what I like to call ''the First Law of Petropolitics,'' which posits that the price of oil and the pace of freedom operate in an inverse relationship in petrolist states -- states with weak institutions and a high dependence on oil for their G.D.P. As the price of oil goes down, the pace of freedom goes up. The day the Soviet Union collapsed the price of oil was near $16 a barrel. And as the price of oil goes up the pace of freedom goes down. Today, Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, flush with surging oil and gas profits, is crushing domestic opponents, renationalizing major energy companies, throwing out Western human rights groups and generally making himself the big man on campus in Europe. 
When Europeans tell you that they fear a new ''cold war,'' this time they really are talking about the temperature -- and the fear that Russia, if it wanted to turn off the gas, could make Europeans very cold. About 40 percent of Europe's natural gas imports come from Russia, and that is expected to grow to 70 percent by 2030.
 With prices high, Russia has gone from the sick man of Europe to the boss man. Russia is a having a much bigger impact on Western Europe ''with gas pipelines than it ever had with SS-20'' long-range nuclear missiles, remarked the German foreign-policy expert Josef Joffe, author of the smart book ''Uberpower: The Imperial Temptation of America.'' 
 ''Ten years ago we thought Russia was out of it,'' Mr. Joffe said. ''We knew it was going to come back. But suddenly, out of the blue, with the rise in oil prices, it is back on stage, and this time it's much more skillful. The image we have of Russia is [the port of] Murmansk, where the Russian fleet is rotting -- but power comes in many forms.'' And the most popular form today is oil and gas. 
 Goodbye NATO, hello Citgo.
 The other day, the BBC quoted a senior ''E.U. insider'' as saying of European Union leaders: ''You know what happens when they get in the same room with Putin?'' They all prostrate themselves ''and say, 'I love you, Vladimir.' '' The BBC was reporting about a tense summit meeting last Friday in the Finnish town of Lahti. E.U. leaders reportedly beseeched Mr. Putin to honor contracts with Western oil companies, as well as to ease his crackdown on press freedoms, on human rights groups in Russia and on Georgia, and to investigate the murder of a crusading Russian journalist. 
 What the E.U. wants, a senior German official explained, is to be able to invest in more Russian oil and gas drilling projects and pipelines upstream, so that Russian and E.U. energy interests will be so intertwined Russia will never consider turning off the gas. Mr. Putin wants Gazprom, the giant Russian gas company, to be able to buy into more downstream consumer operations in Europe. That way Russia could dominate the industry from its oilfields all the way to the gas meters of Berlin and Brussels. Right now, the two sides are in a standoff. 
 ''We cannot allow energy to divide Europe as communism once did,'' Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, told The Financial Times. But it is.
 In fairness to Mr. Putin, turnabout is fair play. After the Soviet Union collapsed and Russia was enfeebled, the U.S. and the E.U. crammed NATO expansion down his throat. He's now using petro-power to push back. ''Russia is very different from Venezuela or Saudi Arabia,'' remarked Clemens Wergin, an editorial writer at the German daily Der Tagesspiegel. Russia has nukes and oil, he noted, and therefore has the potential to play a much more domineering geopolitical role in Europe.
 German officials don't really think Russia is about to turn off the gas if it doesn't get its way on some issue. After all, it never did that during the old cold war, and Russia today is much more dependent on Western markets. But still, centuries of uneasy relations between Europe and Russia make German officials queasy about how dependent they've grown on the Kremlin to heat their homes and offices. Queasy or not, one thing they know for sure: Russia is back. The gas man cometh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); WRITERS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (51%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%) Gas (Fuel); Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



612 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Bush Finding Welcome Mats As G.O.P. Looks for an Edge

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: SARASOTA, Fla. Oct. 24 

 BODY:
President Bush cannot show up just anywhere in the waning days of this midterm campaign. But there is a certain class of Republicans who are somewhere between eager and willing to have him at their sides.
 There are those facing ethical questions or struggling to recover from gaffes. There are those desperate for the cash Mr. Bush can bring in just by showing up for lunch. There are those who need the president to turn out a demoralized base. And there are those who, like Vern Buchanan, the Republican candidate for the House here, are a little bit of all three.
In another year, with another candidate, a Republican would be a shoo-in in Sarasota. But Mr. Buchanan, a wealthy car dealer dogged by accusations of business improprieties, is lagging behind his Democratic opponent, even though the district -- currently represented by Representative Katherine Harris, who is running for Senate -- tilts Republican and the candidate has poured more than $4 million of his own money into his campaign. 
 So Mr. Buchanan did what a handful of other Republicans in trouble are doing. He called in Mr. Bush, who zipped through here Tuesday to raise a little money and, more importantly, fire up Republican voters.
 ''The Democrats have made a lot of predictions.'' Mr. Bush told cheering supporters who had gathered in a cavernous warehouse-turned-convention-hall, where tickets to hear him could be had as cheaply as $20. ''Matter of fact, I think they may be measuring the drapes. If their electoral predictions are as reliable as their economic predictions, Nov. 7 is going to be a good day for the Republicans.''
 The appearance, which Republican officials said raised $375,000, offers a hint of how White House strategists will use Mr. Bush in the final two weeks of the midterm campaign. With his public approval ratings hovering around 37 percent, Democrats making effective use of advertisements attacking the president and Republicans in many races distancing themselves from him, Mr. Bush is far more limited than he was four years ago in where he can appear.
 One Republican strategist close to the White House, granted anonymity to speak candidly about campaign strategy, said some Republicans -- among them Senate candidates in tight races in Missouri, Montana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Tennessee -- simply do not want their final campaign images to include Mr. Bush, and have spurned White House offers for help.
 Instead, White House strategists are sending Mr. Bush to Republican-leaning districts like Sarasota, where he can help energize the base and increase voter turnout. The president will also appear in swing districts where the Republican candidate has calculated that the last-minute infusion of cash he can bring in is worth more than any bad publicity surrounding the visit. 
 ''You probably won't see him too much in the Northeast or the areas where he has less popularity,'' said Charlie Black, a Republican strategist who consults regularly with Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser. ''But we do have a number of races that are very close, where the president, as champion fund-raiser, can still get some extra money in there and allow us to outspend the opponent.''
 Then there are those whose campaigns took unfortunate turns. Over the past several weeks, Mr. Bush has come to the aid of Representative Don Sherwood of Pennsylvania, who admitted having an extramarital affair; Senator George Allen of Virginia, whose campaign has been plagued by accusations of racial and ethnic insensitivity; and Representatives Richard W. Pombo and John T. Doolittle of California, both of whom have been touched by corruption scandals in Washington.
 Mr. Bush is also still raising money for his party at private events. After his Sarasota appearance on Tuesday, he flew across the state to Boca Raton, where he scooped up $1 million at a private dinner for the Republican National Committee. The committee has been using money raised by Mr. Bush to help candidates around the country, especially in its effort to retain control of the Senate.
 On Thursday, Mr. Bush is to campaign in Iowa with a House candidate, Jeff Lamberti, and in Michigan, with Mike Bouchard, who is trying to unseat Senator Debbie Stabenow. On Saturday, he will travel to Indiana to campaign with Representative Mike Sodrel. On Monday, he will attend Republican rallies in Georgia and Texas. 
 Presidents do not often make return trips during campaigns -- ordinarily, it is a big deal to get the commander in chief to come just once -- but Mr. Bush has already campaigned for both Mr. Sodrel and Mr. Bouchard. Mr. Sodrel won in 2004 thanks in part to a heavy turnout in his district for Mr. Bush. Republicans say Mr. Bouchard could pull ahead if he had more money.
 How much the president can help these candidates is an open question -- even among the candidates themselves. In a carefully worded statement, a spokesman for Mr. Bouchard, David All, refrained even from mentioning the president by name when asked why Mr. Bush was coming back.
 ''Any time we can bring decision makers to Michigan and have the opportunity to talk with them about Michigan's future, regardless of whether they are Republican or Democrat, we're going to take it,'' Mr. All said.
 Here in Sarasota, Mr. Buchanan is running against Christine Jennings, a banker who is positioning herself as someone who will manage taxpayers' money wisely. Analysts of both parties say that message is going over well in this seaside community, where economic conservatives have been critical of deficit spending by the Republican-controlled Congress. 
 With Democrats trying to make the election a referendum on Mr. Bush, the president is trying to turn the tables and make it a referendum on Democrats. He used his remarks on Tuesday to hit the opposition party hard, calling Democrats ''genetically predisposed'' to raising taxes and accusing them of thinking that ''the best way to protect you is to respond after the attack.''
 The unstated message, analysts say, is, Vote Republican -- no matter who the candidate.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and a Congressional candidate, Vern Buchanan, yesterday in Sarasota, Fla. Mr. Buchanan hoped Mr. Bush would fire up Republican voters. Kyle Olree, 16, a student at Sarasota Military Academy, applauded as the president spoke
 Sandy Vanetti, 10, also of Sarasota, is at left. (Photographs by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (72%) Finances; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VERN BUCHANAN (90%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



613 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: In Democrats' Haven, Connecticut Republican Faces Fight

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: MYSTIC, Conn. 

 BODY:
Like other Congressional Republicans up for re-election this year, Representative Rob Simmons is struggling under the weight of bad news out of Iraq, widespread unhappiness with President Bush and a scandal involving a Republican lawmaker and young pages on Capitol Hill.
 But Mr. Simmons's situation is further complicated by another important factor: He represents the most Democratic-leaning district held by any Republican in Congress. 
''The environment in which I am operating is very bad,'' he acknowledged last week, barreling down Interstate 95 in his Chevy Trailblazer.
 With less than two weeks before Election Day, Mr. Simmons, 63, has emerged as one of the Democratic Party's best opportunities to capture a Republican-held district as it battles to pick up the 15 seats it needs to retake control of the House. 
 He is facing a tough challenge from Joseph D. Courtney, a Democrat and former state legislator who has spent more than $1 million running television spots in recent weeks accusing him of advancing Mr. Bush's agenda.
 ''It's true,'' says the narrator in one Courtney advertisement. ''Rob Simmons is George Bush's No. 1 supporter in Connecticut. Simmons votes with Bush. Tax breaks for big oil companies. A failed economic plan. Bush's disastrous policy in Iraq.''
 The battle for Connecticut's Second District is so intense that both the Republican and the Democratic Congressional re-election committees have committed to spending $2 million apiece on advertising here. That is on top of the nearly $3.2 million combined that the Simmons and Courtney campaigns reported spending in their latest finance disclosure statements, at the end of September.
 Mr. Simmons is one of three Republican members of Congress from Connecticut who are locked in fierce re-election battles; Nancy L. Johnson in the Fifth District and Christopher Shays in the Fourth District are the others. As in the race here, Democrats are trying to portray Mrs. Johnson and Mr. Shays, both centrists, as pawns of Mr. Bush and conservative Republican House leaders.
 For his part, Mr. Simmons spends much of his time traveling around the Second District arguing that he is his own man and that he is willing to defy Mr. Bush and Republican leaders in Washington.
 ''My job is to represent my constituents, not my party, and not my president,'' said Mr. Simmons, who won in 2004 even though the district voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry.
 The district, in eastern Connecticut, encompasses nearly half the state and includes large rural stretches. It comprises New London, a former whaling city on Long Island Sound where the Navy has a submarine base, and neighboring Groton, where the Electric Boat Corporation, a Navy contractor, builds submarines. The district also includes Norwich, an old industrial city on the Yantic, Shetucket and Thames Rivers.
 The district has roughly 201,000 unaffiliated voters, 120,000 enrolled Democrats and 90,000 enrolled Republicans. But for all practical purposes, it has been a Democratic haven. Before Mr. Kerry won the district with 54 percent of the vote in 2004, Vice President Al Gore carried it in the 2000 presidential race. That year Mr. Simmons became the first Republican in 20 years to win the district, defeating the Democratic incumbent, Sam Gejdenson, with 51 percent of the vote.
 As a Republican, Mr. Simmons has remained politically viable in the district by embracing relatively moderate positions on issues like abortion rights, stem cell research, labor and the environment, in sharp contrast to the Southern and Western conservatives who dominate the party nationally.
 He has also called on Iraqis to take a larger role in their own national security so that the United States can begin reducing its troop presence. Mr. Courtney dismisses that call as election-year bluster meant to deflect attention from the congressman's past support for the war.
 Mr. Simmons, a Vietnam veteran who worked for the Central Intelligence Agency in the 1970's, has sought to portray himself as a pragmatist who delivers for his district. He takes credit for helping save the Navy submarine base at New London, winning authorization for an additional $400 million for submarine projects at Electric Boat in Groton, voting against President Bush's proposed cuts to Amtrak and securing $15 million for completing a much-delayed local highway, Route 11.
 He has also dismissed Mr. Courtney, whom he defeated in 2002, as running a generic anti-Bush campaign scripted by Democratic leaders in Washington who have little connection to people here.
 ''When my opponent claims that I support George Bush on all of these issues, I simply point out the areas where the president and I have disagreed,'' Mr. Simmons said. ''My constituents know that I am independent.''
 But in Mr. Courtney, 53, Mr. Simmons faces a political veteran who has shown that he has the wherewithal to take on an incumbent. A lawyer who also serves as town attorney in Vernon, where he lives, Mr. Courtney has been a fierce fund-raiser, bringing in nearly $1.8 million, compared to Mr. Simmons's nearly $2.5 million. And he has been a disciplined campaigner, essentially sticking to one line of attack throughout the campaign: that Mr. Simmons is a rubber stamp for George W. Bush.
 Republicans say that Mr. Courtney's campaign has offered little beyond criticism of Mr. Simmons: Five of Mr. Courtney's television spots are mainly devoted to attacking the congressman. But Mr. Courtney has pointed to aspects of his record in the State Legislature as examples of how he would govern.
 For example, Mr. Courtney, who served in Connecticut's House of Representatives from 1987 to 1994, points out that as chairman of the body's Public Health Committee, he helped pass a law requiring pharmaceutical companies to reduce the cost of their drugs to participate in a state-run drug program for the elderly and the disabled. He asserts that a new Medicare prescription drug program that Mr. Simmons supports enriches drug companies at the expense of the elderly.
 Mr. Courtney said he doubted that Mr. Simmons's effort to keep the race focused on local issues would save him next month because voters were clearly concerned about the overall direction of the nation. 
 ''I believe Tip O'Neill's maxim that all politics is local,'' he said. ''But this year, the local is national.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 25 about the battle in Connecticut's Second Congressional District, between Representative Rob Simmons, a Republican, and Joseph D. Courtney, a Democrat, misstated the number of years that the district had gone without a Republican representative before Mr. Simmons was first elected in 2000, and misidentified the location of the district's naval submarine base. Mr. Simmons was the first Republican elected in 28 years, not 20. The base is in Groton, not New London.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph D. Courtney, a Democratic former state legislator running for Congress in Connecticut's Second District, last week at the Franklin Park Community Center in Vernon. He has spent more than $1 million on ads. (Photo by Andrew Henderson for The New York Times)
 Representative Rob Simmons, Republican of Connecticut, greeted Rudolph W. Giuliani at a recent fund-raiser in Groton, Conn. The party's re-election committee plans to spend $2 million on Mr. Simmons's race. (Photo by Khoi Ton/Norwich Bulletin, via Associated Press)Map of Connecticut highlighting the Second Congressional District: Mr. Simmons's district includes large swaths of rural land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%) Elections; Election Issues

COMPANY: ELECTRIC BOAT CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

INDUSTRY: SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE COURTNEY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%) Raymond Hernandez; Joseph Courtney; Rob (Rep) Simmons; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (93%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



614 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan's Diatribe Seen as Fatal to U.N. Council Bid

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE; Simon Romero contributed reporting from Caracas, Venezuela.

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Venezuela's populist leader, Hugo Chavez, earned giggles and guffaws at the United Nations last month with his mass appeal diatribe ridiculing President Bush as the devil. Mr. Chavez said he could still smell the telltale scent of sulfur on the General Assembly rostrum where Mr. Bush had spoken the day before. 
 Now it appears that Mr. Chavez's histrionic performance -- styled to win him support from the United States' many detractors at the United Nations -- may have cost his country the seat on the Security Council that he has conducted a global campaign to win. 
 Developing nations make up a vast majority of the 192 countries in the General Assembly and generally warm to rants against Washington. But they also value the United Nations as a place where their voices can be heard in a dignified setting, and both supporters and detractors here say Mr. Chavez may have miscalculated in turning it into his bully pulpit.
 Delegates said they also feared that the performance demonstrated the kind of behavior Venezuela might bring to the orderly confines of the Council chamber.
 As the General Assembly resumes voting on Wednesday on who should occupy the seat being vacated by Argentina, Venezuela's candidacy is already considered finished. In 35 rounds over three days last week, the ambassadors kept Venezuela's competitor, Guatemala, far in front, though not in ready reach of the two-thirds majority needed to win the seat.
 In a twist to Venezuela's quest for the seat, President Evo Morales of Bolivia, Mr. Chavez's closest political ally in South America, said Tuesday that Mr. Chavez had asked him to put Bolivia forward as an alternate candidate to Venezuela. But a spokeswoman for the Venezuelan Foreign Ministry later said the nomination of Bolivia was just one option under consideration. In any case, the decision to select a new candidate would be up to the Latin American and Caribbean group at the United Nations. 
 Venezuela's poor results came as a surprise, and many people, including those favoring Caracas in the voting, point to Mr. Chavez's performance as the cause.
 ''The speech played the most important role in what happened,'' said Riordan Roett, the director of the Latin American Studies Program at Johns Hopkins University. ''You can talk like that in Latin America, and people will have a chuckle, but there is traditional respect for protocol, and it was not amusing to a lot of people who see the U.N. as the forum for expressing third world views.'' 
 ''The speech really hurt his case,'' said Enrique Berruga, the ambassador of Mexico. ''Most members don't want this place to be turned into a mockery. In the General Assembly, there are limits, and he went way beyond them.''
 Another Latin ambassador, who said he knew of many countries that voted against Venezuela because of the speech, agreed that Mr. Chavez had stepped over a line.
 ''U.S.-bashing is acceptable, but not the U.N.-bashing that they thought Chavez's speech amounted to because in the end this is everyone's house, and a speech like that goes down the same dirty drain as the bitter criticisms of the U.S.,'' the envoy said. He asked not to be identified because he was commenting on the leader of another South American country.
 Asked if Mr. Chavez's popularity might be flagging closer to home, Mr. Roett pointed out that presidential candidates who have been identified with Mr. Chavez in recent elections in Ecuador, Peru and Mexico all did badly. ''For sure he's not gone as a force, but people are less impressed with him than they were four or five years ago,'' he said. 
 The expectation at the United Nations has been that the inconclusive balloting will drag on for many days as Venezuela and Guatemala refuse to step down and the Latin American group is consequently unable to turn to a compromise candidate.
 The calculus could change if Venezuela does decide to drop out. 
 The unseemly process is embarrassing to Latin diplomats who acknowledge that the 33-nation Latin American and Caribbean group at the United Nations has often shown disunity, while the 53-nation African group and the 54-country Asian group yearly produce candidates without dispute.
 ''We probably have the least amount of time difference between our countries of any group, but we have the greatest difficulties getting together,'' said Eduardo J. Sevilla Somoza, the ambassador of Nicaragua. His country lost its bid for a Security Council seat last year to Peru.
 The disarray that the Venezuela-Guatemala standoff has produced at the United Nations reflects divisions within the region itself.
 First, there is the role of the United States, which has lobbied vigorously for Guatemala in an effort to keep Venezuela off the Security Council and whose attempts to influence Latin America have long divided the region. 
 ''Both countries feel victimized, Guatemala because of Venezuela and Venezuela because of the United States,'' said Ronaldo Sardenberg, the ambassador of Brazil. ''It's a very complicated moment.''
 Another part of the divide is a regional tug-of-war pitting the small countries of Central America and the Caribbean against the large nations of South America.
 Guatemala has never been on the Security Council. Venezuela has been a member four times, and the powers of the continent, Brazil and Argentina, have held a seat nine and eight times respectively.
 But the division most on the minds of Latin Americans today is the one provoked by Mr. Chavez and his adoption of an authoritarian, state-centered leadership model that he is trying to spread through the region, which has in recent years adopted market economics and democracy.
 Kenneth R. Maxwell, a senior fellow at the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies at Harvard, said he believed there was a ''tectonic shift'' that was dividing Latin America three ways -- a northern sphere encompassing Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean; a southern part based in the large countries of South America; and an Andean stretch where indigenous leaders were coming to power.
 He said that shift had created an instability that had given Mr. Chavez an opportunity to win over other countries to his thinking, particularly as long as he can tap Venezuela's oil proceeds for his political goals.
 Arturo Valenzuela, the director of Georgetown's Center for Latin American Studies, said he thought the divisions were serious, but not as deep as the ideological schism that befell the region during the cold war when many countries were ruled by military dictatorships.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hugo Chavez's recent General Assembly speech raised concern among some United Nations delegates. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%) United States International Relations; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%) United Nations; Security Council (Un); United Nations

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Warren Hoge; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Latin America; Venezuela; Guatemala

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006



615 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: A Deluxe Vacation, Your Friends Included 

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

 BODY:
IN June, Jon and Janie Mangus sailed around the Greek islands for eight days with their two grown daughters, their daughters' boyfriends and a revolving cast of 10 close friends. Their 140-foot chartered yacht -- six bedrooms and baths -- stopped at Mykonos, Delos and Santorini where guests water-skied and took excursions. A four-star chef (part of a staff of seven) cooked meals that kept everyone laughing and talking for hours.
 The trip almost didn't happen, said Ms. Mangus, 51, a retired high school teacher from Tiburon, Calif. When she and her husband first brought up the yachting idea, their friends balked at the estimated price of $16,000 a couple. But then Mr. Mangus, 64, unexpectedly received $250,000 from a property sale, and the couple decided the trip would be their treat.
''We couldn't imagine going on this dream trip without our friends who are really special to us, but who we don't get to spend large amounts of time with,'' Ms. Mangus said. 
 A new trend is emerging in wealthy circles: the gift vacation -- and not just a weekend trip to Disney World, either. Many affluent Americans are indulging in lavish, exotic trips and have decided that it would be even more enjoyable if they could surround themselves with friends and family members. 
 ''As we place a premium on the time we have away from work, traveling with friends will continue to increase, and paying for friends would be an expected manifestation of that trend,'' said Peter Yesawich, the chief executive of Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell, a travel marketing firm.
 Many gift vacations are tied to celebrations of a milestone birthday, anniversary or lucrative business deal. Abercrombie & Kent, an operator of luxury tours, has trained specialists to work with clients who want to travel with family and friends. It developed a new category of trips called Celebrations, and last year a third of the hundreds of Celebrations trips booked were paid for by a host, said Pamela Lassers, the company spokeswoman. 
 Mary Crowley, the owner of Ocean Voyages, the agency in Sausalito, Calif., that arranged the Manguses' party, specializes in yacht charters. In 2005, she booked 25 to 30 group trips in which a host paid, up about sixfold from five years ago, she said.
 Driving the trend are the increasing wealth of the top tier of Americans, and the diminishing time most people are able to devote to family and friends. 
 Still, treating friends to a vacation can be fraught with complications. An offer can be viewed as an insult, a way of underscoring income and social inequities. Sometimes it creates embarrassment and worries about reciprocation and obligation.
 And then there is the matter of which friends to include and which to leave out -- a problem that plagued Nancy Pinckert, and her husband, Byron, 56, both architects, when they chose nine people to join them last month for a luxurious three-night hotel stay at the Calistoga Ranch in the Napa Valley, complete with minibus transportation to wine and olive-oil tastings and dinner at the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif. 
 Ms. Pinckert, whose 50th birthday the trip celebrated, said she was careful not to mention it to friends she didn't invite. ''We thought about explaining why we couldn't ask them,'' she said. ''But no matter how you try to position it, people feel rejected.''
 The gift vacation, though, is rooted in the desire to be with those who matter most to you.
 ''Today, more than ever, friends are important because there is the likelihood of outliving a spouse with increased longevity,'' said Jan Yager, a sociologist and author of ''When Friendship Hurts.'' ''There is also divorce and prolonged singleness, so friends may be the key nonfamilial and nostalgic relationship. Those with money are able to say, 'We are lucky to have this wealth. What counts is to be with our friends.' ''
 And more people can afford it. There are twice as many millionaires today as a decade ago -- 9.3 million households in the United States, compared with 4.9 million in 1996, according to the soon-to-be-released Affluent Market Research report, which is produced by TNS, a research firm. The average age of America's millionaires is 60.9, and most -- 65.2 percent of them -- said they earned their wealth.
 And they seem more willing to spend it, and lavishly.
 ''Ten years ago, we wouldn't have been able to even think about paying,'' Ms. Mangus said. ''But we're at the stage in our lives where we can do something extraordinary.''
 It's not just older Americans, either. In the age of ''Entourage,'' many Gen Xers like to travel in packs. Those with the means have been known to pay for the rest.
 ''One of the things I miss most from my college days is hanging out with my friends,'' said Ben Inker, 35, a Boston investment manager, who for the last three years has rented a Caribbean villa for a week in winter. He and his wife, Jenna, have invited a dozen or more pals, from different cities, whom they rarely see. 
 ''My wife and I wanted unhurried, focused time with them in a really nice trip away,'' Mr. Inker said. ''Since everyone has different amounts of disposable income, it was easier for us to pay.''
 There is a science to planning these trips, trying to synchronize everyone's schedules. Mr. Inker said he lined up friends and amenities six months in advance.
 The last two years, they settled on a seven-bedroom villa on Anguilla that faced the sea. It had seven and a half baths, a pool, tennis court, gym, tropical gardens, meditation area and a staff of 14. The property, called Cerulean Villa, starts at $33,000 for the week. But, Mr. Inker said, it was worth it: unstructured days spent swimming, snorkeling and eating fine meals prepared by the villa's chef, with lots of hanging out ''Friends'' style. 
 The week offers more togetherness than you would get in a year, said Mike Offner, 36, Mr. Inker's roommate from Yale who has been on all three trips.
 Yet even a Caribbean dream -- or a Mediterranean Shangri-La -- can have its down side.
 Many invitees say they're uncomfortable accepting an over-the-top freebie. Bill Smith, a partner at a wealth management firm in Burlington, N.C., anticipated as much when he paid for part of a golfing trip to Scotland for seven friends, to celebrate his 40th birthday. 
 Although Mr. Smith's invitees live within a few hours' drive and some are regular golf partners, he said nine holes isn't enough time. ''When we play, we are watching the clock because we have pressing work and family obligations,'' he said. ''I wanted to have uninterrupted time with them.''
 Nancy K. Schlossberg, the author of ''Retire Smart, Retire Happy,'' said it's more natural to play host. ''Boomers were brought up in a time of economic prosperity, and some have a sense of entitlement,'' said Dr. Schlossberg, formerly a professor at the University of Maryland who specialized in how adults coped with transitions. ''There is less fear, for those who have money, to spend it.''
 It's trickier on the receiving end. When Mr. Smith invited his golf buddies by phone, he pretended that his travel agent, Gordon Dalgleish, who owns Perry Golf, had found a deal where they would only pay airfare and meals, while tee time and accommodations would be free. ''I worried that because of money reasons, everyone wouldn't have been able to come,'' he said. 
 But Bill Noble, 45, a friend of Mr. Smith's, quickly caught on. He just didn't believe that exclusive Scottish courses like Turnberry and St. Andrews would give them freebies. Plus, Mr. Noble added: ''It didn't feel right to accept such a big gift.'' He eventually agreed to go because he knew the trip was a rare chance to play a week of nonstop golf with close friends. 
 One person Mr. Smith invited, though, did decline because he couldn't accept his friend's largesse.
 At first, John and Patty Chaney, guests of the Manguses, felt squeamish, too. They accepted at Mr. Mangus's insistence, but say they were jarred by the yacht itself. ''It was one thing to hear about it, but once we saw how luxurious the boat was, we were uneasy,'' said Mr. Chaney, a 64-year-old retired businessman from Portland, Ore.
 Then there is the matter of the guest list. There was an uncomfortable moment when Mr. Smith invited another person after a guest dropped out of the golf outing because of back problems. ''That guy knew he wasn't on the original list,'' Mr. Noble said. ''It's like he was lower on the pecking order.''
 Friends who have benefited from an extravagant gift may feel beholden, Dr. Yager said. ''To compensate for that feeling, they have this overwhelming need to reciprocate.'' 
 Joe Brewer, who traveled to Scotland with Mr. Smith in May, said that when his friend's actual birthday arrived in September, he felt a twinge of obligation that a call and a perfunctory bottle of wine couldn't quell. ''I felt like I had to do something a little bit more,'' he said. So the seven vacationers contributed a few hundred dollars each and gave their host framed prints of the 10 courses they played together.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MY TREAT -- Bill Smith, far right, with his friends on the 19th hole during a golfing vacation in Scotland. (pg. G1)
 AT LARGE -- The Mangus family and friends, at top, on a yacht in the Greek isles. Above, the Pinckert family and travel party in the Napa Valley. (pg. G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); SAILING (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FAMILY (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Travel and Vacations; Gifts

COMPANY: YPARTNERSHIP (66%); ABERCROMBIE & KENT USA LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Abercrombie & Kent

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: Shivani Vora

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GREECE (88%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



616 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Fed Panel's Statement on Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged: 
 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5.25 percent.
Economic growth has slowed over the course of the year, partly reflecting a cooling of the housing market. Going forward, the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace.
 Readings on core inflation have been elevated, and the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, reflecting reduced impetus from energy prices, contained inflation expectations and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand.
 Nonetheless, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Sandra Pianalto; William Poole; Kevin M. Warsh and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against was Jeffrey M. Lacker, who preferred an increase of 25 basis points in the federal funds rate target at this meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



617 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Slabs Are Joining Scoops In Ice Cream Retailing 

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
With Baskin-Robbins and Dairy Queen, not to mention thousands of independent scoop shops, there are plenty of places to satisfy a craving for ice cream. But three companies say there is still room for something different -- their premium ice creams, served with a flourish. 
 The three are competing to be to ice cream what Starbucks is to coffee -- a ubiquitous chain offering a high-priced, high-quality version of a relatively mundane product.
The companies, Marble Slab Creamery, Cold Stone Creamery and MaggieMoo's International, sell various flavors of premium ice cream, which is defined by the industry as having more than 12 percent butterfat. Moreover, they allow customers to choose from an assortment of ''mix-ins'' like crumbled cookies, candies, fruits and nuts. Employees then blend the ingredients into the ice cream on a cold granite or marble slab before packing it into a cup or freshly baked waffle cone. The cost escalates with the number of mix-ins and can easily top $5 for a medium serving. 
 ''These guys are all hoping to be the next Starbucks,'' said Donna Barry, a dairy consultant who analyzes the ice cream industry for the market research company Packaged Facts in New York. 
 Part of the experience is waiting in line and watching employees prepare concoctions. ''It's entertainment,'' Ms. Barry said. ''I myself get intrigued by what other people order,'' like peanut butter ice cream with bananas, marshmallows and brownie chunks.
 But in an already crowded market, it remains unclear whether there is a sustainable niche for high-end ice cream, much less one that can support a store on every corner. 
 Following the Starbucks model, the three chains are densely situating their stores, particularly Cold Stone. Founded in 1988, with its headquarters in Scottsdale, Ariz., Cold Stone has 1,400 franchises in the United States, Japan and South Korea -- most opened in the last five years. A former Procter & Gamble sales manager, Douglas A. Ducey, was named chief executive in 2000 to lead the expansion. 
 ''I saw an opportunity to reinvent a stagnant category like what happened with coffee,'' he said. 
 Marble Slab, based in Houston, and MaggieMoo's of Columbia, Md., have also pursued rapid growth strategies in the last five years. Marble Slab, which opened its first store in 1983, now has 371 franchises in the United States, Canada and the United Arab Emirates, with another 220 under development. Started in 1989, MaggieMoo's currently has 190 franchises in the United States with an additional 150 under development.
 ''These guys are definitely trying to saturate the market,'' said Darren Tristano, managing director of Technomic, a food service research and consulting firm in Chicago. ''It's all a game of beating the other guy to the best locations.'' 
 Americans spend about $21 billion a year on ice cream, according to the International Dairy Foods Association. That amounts to 1.6 billion gallons of ice cream, or 21.5 quarts a person a year. Almost two-thirds of that ice cream is eaten away from home. 
 ''It's not a small category,'' said Harry Balzar, president of the NPD Group, a market research company in Port Washington, N.Y., but one that has remained flat for more than a decade and is ''not likely to grow.'' 
 To succeed, Cold Stone, Marble Slab and MaggieMoo's need to take customers from the market leaders Dairy Queen and Baskin-Robbins and the more than 15,000 other independent and chain ice cream shops scattered across the country. This includes Ben & Jerry's and Haagen-Dazs, which are steadily adding locations, though their focus is more on grocery store sales. 
 ''The Cold Stones and the like have to take business from competitors or increase the frequency of customer visits,'' Mr. Balzar said.
 Demand was arguably high as several people waited in line on a recent weekday afternoon at a Marble Slab Creamery in Houston. ''I was on my way home from jury duty and figured I'd use the $6 they paid me to buy an ice cream,'' said Lee Beauchamp, a petroleum marketer, who was enjoying a double dip of dark chocolate coconut and birthday-cake-flavor ice cream. 
 But Howard Waxman, editor of The Ice Cream Reporter, an industry newsletter, questioned how much of an appetite there is for expensive customized ice cream. ''People often have very personal or psychological associations with ice cream,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''They'll try something new but they tend to go back to the kind of ice cream they grew up eating.'' 
 That is the way it was for Tony Green, a management consultant in Chicago, who tried Cold Stone and Marble Slab once or twice because he said his two children ''are all about mixing as much candy into their ice cream as possible.'' Even so, the family favorite is still an independent, old-fashioned ice cream parlor called Margie's Candies that they have gone to for years. ''It's a throw-back nostalgia kind of place,'' Mr. Green said. 
 Such loyalties and perhaps market saturation might explain why sales at Cold Stone stores open for more than a year were down for the first time last year, by 6.6 percent, and are down 7 percent so far this year. Including revenue from newly opened stores, the company expects sales to reach $465 million this year, up 46 percent from last year. Mindful of the decline in sales at existing stores, Mr. Ducey said Cold Stone would slow its expansion. ''We first wanted to secure premier locations and build awareness and now we are going to focus on the amount of product sold,'' he said. 
 Marble Slab, which has pursued a more measured growth strategy, estimates this year's sales will be $90 million, up from $75 million last year, with sales at stores open for more than a year increasing 3 percent. 
 ''Our primary focus has always been on trying to offer the highest-quality product -- we only open new stores when it makes sense,'' said Ronald Hankamer, Marble Slab's president and chief executive. 
 MaggieMoo's projects $50 million in sales this year, up from $43 million last year. The company would not release sales at stores open for more than a year. It has dropped to 416 from 169 in 2004 on Entrepreneur Magazine's ranking of the top 500 franchise opportunities. Cold Stone and Marble Slab have climbed in the 2006 rankings, to 24 and 297, respectively. MaggieMoo's closed six underperforming stores in Bangkok this year and canceled plans for further overseas expansion. 
 Still, the three chains are hardly hurting for franchisees. Cold Stone, for example, received 25,000 applications last year. 
 ''A lot of people want to get into the business because it sounds like fun,'' said Mr. Waxman of The Ice Cream Reporter. And it is relatively inexpensive to buy in, with $200,000 to $450,000 in upfront costs and fees plus 6 percent royalties on sales. By contrast, purchasing a McDonald's franchise requires a $506,000 to $1.6 million initial investment plus a minimum of 12.5 percent royalties on sales. 
 The majority of franchisees at Cold Stone, Marble Slab and MaggieMoo's own more than one location and as many as 11. ''It's how you create economies of scale so you can increase your margins,'' said Rudy Puig, who owns three Cold Stone stores in Miami, and plans to buy another next year. 
 But he said the real reason he was in the ice cream business is ''my kids used to cry if we didn't stop for ice cream.'' Now that is not a problem.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cold Stone Creamery customers can choose ingredients like crumbled cookies, candies and nuts to be blended into their ice cream. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (92%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); CONFECTIONERY (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); SALES MANAGEMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%) Ice Cream

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Marble Slab Creamery (Co); Cold Stone Creamery; MaggieMoo's International

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CANADA (72%); JAPAN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



618 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Honda Profit Falls 4.3% On Loss Tied To Derivatives

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company, Japan's third-largest carmaker after Toyota and Nissan, said yesterday that second-quarter profit fell 4.3 percent after a 30.6 billion yen ($257 million) loss on derivatives. 
 ''Honda's management was trying to be clever and they failed,'' said Edwin Merner, who oversees $1 billion as president of Atlantis Investment Research.
Wrong-way bets on interest rate swaps have hurt Honda's earnings at least four times in two years.
 Net income dropped to 127.9 billion yen, or 70.5 yen a share, in the three months that ended Sept. 30, from 133.7 billion yen, or 72.45 yen a share, a year earlier, Honda said yesterday. Honda's earnings were less than its own forecast of 131.6 billion yen.
 The carmaker gets as much as 70 percent of its operating profit from North America and uses derivatives to hedge against currency and interest rate fluctuations.
 The impact of derivatives outweighed gains from a weaker-than-expected yen, which raised earnings by 43.7 billion yen.
 The automaker raised its net income forecast for the year ending March 2007 by 1 percent, to 555 billion yen from 550 billion yen, and increased its operating-profit forecast 9.3 percent, to 820 billion yen, on an expected gain from a weaker yen.
 Second-quarter sales rose 12 percent, to 2.63 trillion yen.
 ''The company is doing really well in the U.S. with its fuel-efficient models,'' said Ichiro Takamatsu, who manages $50 million as chief investment officer at Alphex Investments in Tokyo. ''Over the long run, that's what counts and the derivative costs will level off.''
 Honda's sales in North America rose 4.3 percent, to 411,000 vehicles in the quarter. The automaker increased capital expenditure by 20 billion yen, to 590 billion yen, for the year, mainly to raise production of Civic small cars after running short of the model in the United States.
 Honda brought out a new Acura RDX crossover and a redesigned CR-V sport utility vehicle in the United States. 
 In Europe, vehicle sales rose 8.2 percent in the quarter, to 79,000. Domestic sales declined 6.6 percent, to 171,000, and sales in Asia outside of Japan surged 22 percent, to 163,000 vehicles.
 Honda shares, which have gained 21 percent this year, fell 0.9 percent, to 4,070 yen in Tokyo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%) Company Reports ; Automobiles ; Sales

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (75%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



619 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Fed Again Leaves Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Saying that the economy was likely to continue growing at a ''moderate pace,'' the Federal Reserve held its benchmark interest rate steady yesterday and gave investors reason to think that the rate could remain at its current level of 5.25 percent for months to come.
 A statement accompanying the decision by the Federal Open Market Committee was nearly identical to the one the panel released after its policy meeting last month. Since then, new economic data has given Fed officials reason to hope that they have achieved a ''soft landing,'' in which interest rate increases slow the economy and bring down inflation without falling into recession.
''I think the Fed is feeling very good about the way the economy is developing,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, a strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset and Wealth Management. ''The housing slowdown is proceeding, but it's not spiraling downward, and the rest of the economy is doing O.K.'' 
 The short-term interest rate under the Fed's control, which influences a wide variety of other interest rates, remained unchanged for a third consecutive meeting. The panel had raised that rate -- the federal funds rate on overnight bank loans -- at every meeting from the middle of 2004 through this summer to slow the economy and keep inflation in check.
 With the housing market in the midst of a ''substantial correction,'' as the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has put it, overall economic growth has slowed this year. The National Association of Realtors reported yesterday that sales of previously owned homes in September declined 1.9 percent from August, a larger drop than forecasters had expected. The median sale price also fell, to $220,000, from $225,000 a year earlier.
 But a sharp drop in oil prices -- with gasoline falling this week to $2.20 a gallon on average, from around $3 early in August -- appears to have reduced the chances that the slowdown could turn into something more severe, economists say. A Labor Department report this month also showed this summer's job market to be healthier than had been thought.
 Stock investors yesterday took a largely positive view. The Dow Jones industrials were up 0.06 percent, but broader gauges rose more -- the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.35 percent, the Nasdaq composite index gained 0.50 percent and the Russell 2000 index of smaller issues was 0.62 percent higher. 
 If the economy resumes fairly strong growth, the Fed will have more flexibility to raise rates without risking recession in the event that inflation does not follow the declining path many Fed officials are counting on.
 ''Readings on core inflation have been elevated,'' the statement yesterday said, and could remain so because many companies are operating close to capacity. ''However, inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time,'' it added, as a result of falling oil prices, previous interest rate increases and low expectations among consumers that retail prices will rise much.
 There were only two substantive changes in the statement: a new sentence on the economic outlook, forecasting ''moderate'' growth, and the removal of energy and commodity prices as two of the factors increasing inflation pressure.
 ''The use of the term 'moderate,' I think, was intentionally vague,'' David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley, said. ''They wanted to indicate a degree of confidence that growth would not slow too much, but not express an opinion about whether it would resume an above-trend course'' that would cause inflation to accelerate.
 Although the drop in gasoline prices has brought down overall inflation, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation -- which excludes energy and food and is less volatile as a result -- is still rising at an annual pace of 2.5 percent, according to the latest Commerce Department data. Mr. Bernanke has suggested that he would like this core inflation to be in a range of 1 percent to 2 percent. 
 During their two-day meeting that ended yesterday, Fed officials discussed but apparently did not resolve how they might talk in public in more detail about their policy and forecasts. The meeting, originally scheduled to last only a day, was expanded to two days earlier in the year to leave time for the discussion, which formally began in August.
 Based on the price of futures contracts tied to Fed policy, traders seem to believe that the Fed will keep its benchmark rate at 5.25 percent into early in the new year before cutting it next summer. After the meeting, the futures prices changed to suggest that traders thought that a rate increase over the next year had become even less likely. 
 Still, a change in the next six months -- one way or the other -- remains quite plausible, economists say. In speeches and Congressional testimony, Mr. Bernanke has emphasized that the Fed is willing to change its plans based on new economic data.
 In a recent Reuters poll of traders at securities firms that participate in Treasury Department auctions, about two-thirds of them said the next rate change was likely to be a cut and a third said it would be an increase, suggesting that most thought that the slowing economy was a bigger threat than inflation.
 But the Fed panel's statement suggested that it remained more concerned about inflation than the possibility of a recession. A phrase referring to ''any additional firming'' -- meaning rate increases -- remained in the text. More than anything, that could have been a message to Wall Street that the Fed would remain vigilant about accelerating prices. 
 When the Fed left the federal funds rate unchanged in August, for the first time in more than two years, some economists criticized Mr. Bernanke for being too soft on inflation during his first year as chairman. At yesterday's meeting, Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, was the lone dissenter for the third time in a row, voting for a rate increase.
 The recent economic slowdown, which is expected to be reflected in the coming report on third-quarter economic activity to be released tomorrow, has made the Fed's August decision less susceptible to criticism than it was at the time. The central question now is whether the housing slump will spill over into other parts of the economy by causing falling home prices to lead households to reduce spending in other areas. 
 In yesterday's report on the housing market, the Realtors said sales of existing homes fell 14 percent last month compared with September 2005, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 6.2 million. As recently as early last year, the number of sales was rising at more than 10 percent a year.
 Sales of condominiums, many bought by investors during the housing boom, have fallen more rapidly than sales of single-family houses.
 In a sign that the market could be stabilizing, the number of apartments and houses offered for sale declined slightly last month, to 3.8 million, from 3.9 million in August. Thomas M. Stevens, president of the Realtors group, predicted that the drop in housing inventory would cause prices to start rising again in coming months.
 But Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with the consulting firm MFR, said the inventory was still large enough to suggest that prices would fall further. Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital in Darien, Conn., added, ''There's no evidence that we're bottoming out.''
 Over the last year, prices have fallen 5.1 percent in the Northeast, more sharply than in the West (4.3 percent), the Midwest (2.3 percent) and the South (1.6 percent). 
 ''It's still a seller's market,'' Mr. Schiff said. ''If you're looking to buy, wait. Keep renting. Prices are going to come a lot lower.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange kept track yesterday of the Federal Reserve's decision to leave short-term interest rates unchanged for a third time as well as of the modestly rising equities market. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Federal Funds Rate''Graph tracks Fed funds rate and inflation since 2000.5.25%Unchanged(Sources by Federal Reserve
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System; National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



620 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: A Writer Looks to Her History and Reaps an Award

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH

 BODY:
A rainy afternoon in Brooklyn. The novelist Kiran Desai was sitting daintily on her couch, barefoot, her gleaming black hair hanging to her shoulders above a dress of Indian silk.
 Earlier this month, at age 35, she became the youngest woman ever to win Britain's prestigious Man Booker Prize, for her novel ''The Inheritance of Loss'' -- a career-stirring event for any budding novelist but particularly so in her case because it is an honor that has eluded her mother, Anita Desai, who has been a finalist for the prize three times.
 Ms. Desai wrote the novel, which is based partly on her family history, in her mother's house in Cold Spring, N.Y., in ''a completely happy atmosphere of stillness and peace,'' she said in a soft, Anglo-Indian lilt. ''The light in her house seems golden.'' 
 Mother and daughter worked side-by-side on their separate manuscripts during the day, then cooked together at night and drank rum, Ms. Desai said. When she finished the first draft of ''Inheritance,'' she said, ''it was an enormous mess.'' She showed it to her mother. ''She was the only person who really understood bits of it,'' Ms. Desai said. ''It was so close to our family story.''
 ''She helped winnow it down,'' Ms. Desai said. ''She had made little notes. They were very delicate, very wise. She must have been a wonderful teacher. They were not frightening.'' 
 The elder Ms. Desai said she rejoiced in her daughter's triumph. When she was nominated for the Booker herself, she said, ''it was never such an important event in my life,'' since she was then far away from London and living in India. ''Having Kiran on the short list and winning has been far more intense.''
 ''The Inheritance of Loss,'' published by Grove/Atlantic, is a rich, expansive work. It's about globalization, immigration and class, and Ms. Desai is now among a growing group of prominent young novelists of Indian background, including Arundhati Roy and Jhumpa Lahiri. 
 ''The Inheritance of Loss'' tells the story of an embittered Indian judge, his orphaned granddaughter and their foolish and saintly cook. It moves from a decaying mansion built by a Scotsman in the lush, damp landscape of Kalimpong, in the Himalayas, to the rat-infested basements of Indian restaurants in New York where the cook's beloved son, Biju, works as an illegal immigrant barely surviving on slave wages. 
 The mansion in the novel was inspired by a house, now restored, which Ms. Desai's aunt, a pediatrician, owns in Kalimpong. Like the judge, Ms. Desai's paternal grandfather journeyed from Gujarat to Cambridge University, a penniless student learning the English dictionary by heart. In India, he became an itinerant civil service judge and, typical of Anglicized, middle-class Indians, somewhat estranged from his native culture. 
 Like many upper-class Indians, those in ''Inheritance'' speak English to one another, reserving Hindi or Urdu for their servants. ''We are very good at breaking ourselves into castes and different religions,'' said Ms. Desai. ''The English-speaking Indian is part of another divide.'' Nowadays, she said, Americanized Indians also ''go back and suddenly they feel a great divide between themselves and the people there.''
 ''Immigration has so much cruelty,'' she said. ''It is a huge story.''
 Ms. Desai herself grew up in an apartment in New Delhi. Her father, Ashvin, was a businessman. Their Bengali cook made Indian and British colonial-style food, custards and legs of mutton, as if the family were living the grand existence of India's vanished British colonial rulers. ''I always adored him,'' she said of the cook. ''You're very conscious of making your fortune on the backs of the poor.'' He became the model for the devoted cook in the book. 
 Like Sai, the teenager in the novel, Ms. Desai attended a convent school in Kalimpong. In the novel, Sai falls in love with Gyan, from an poor Nepalese family; the story takes place in the 1980's, when ethnic Nepalese rebelled. ''They didn't have political and economic power,'' she said. ''It suddenly skidded into violence.'' 
 Ms. Desai is the youngest of four children. Her mother, who had a German mother and Indian father, wrote many of her novels when her children were at school in Delhi. ''She got incredibly disciplined,'' Ms. Desai said. ''Writing was considered at one point a sort of sweet hobby for women to do. But she was actually writing very powerful and dark books.''
 Mother and daughter have decidedly different writing styles. Ms. Desai, the mother, is a prolific writer of economical, precisely rendered prose. She was a Booker finalist for her novels ''Clear Light of Day,'' ''In Custody'' and ''Fasting, Feasting.'' 
 Salman Rushdie, a family friend, describes their divergent styles this way: ''Anita is a deceptively quiet writer. Kiran is a little bit more showy as a writer. There is a little more flamboyance in the prose.'' Her parents separated, and when Kiran was 16, her mother moved to the United States. Anita Desai became a professor in the Writing and Humanistic Studies program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 Ms. Desai attended high school in Amherst, Mass. She went to Bennington College, intending to be a scientist. But she took a writing class and ''it was such a revelation,'' she said. She published her first story, ''The Toilet and Rampal the Government Official,'' about a civil servant sent to a rural area who brings his Western-style toilet with him. 
 She enrolled in a graduate writing program at Hollins College in Virginia and began a novel, ''Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard,'' about an Indian who climbs a tree, stays there and is revered as a saint. The characters include some drunken monkeys. 
 After ''Hullabaloo'' was published, Ms. Desai got a master's degree in writing at Columbia University. Now, she splits her time between an apartment in Brooklyn she shares with a friend and her father's home in New Delhi, though she spends much of the year traveling.
 ''Inheritance,'' her second novel, was much harder to write than ''Hullabaloo,'' she said, taking ''seven years of my being determinedly isolated.'' She had trouble getting a British publisher, she said. ''It was messy, and they didn't think editing could save it.'' Nearly 10 houses turned down the novel until it was finally accepted by Hamish Hamilton.
 Unlike her mother, Ms. Desai said she doesn't think of marrying or having children. ''The isolation of writing settles in too deeply; it becomes part of your personality and your life,'' she said. ''If I had a child, I'd have to break out of it and be sweet. But as a writer I am trying to understand hate and anger.''
 Lately, Ms. Desai said, she has been longing for the solitude of writing to pull her back in. She glanced wistfully outside at the rain and the wet landscape, reminiscent this afternoon of Kalimpong. 
 ''It's a perfect day to be writing,'' she mused. ''You can just tell.'' She paused. ''The contentment, the heaven.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kiran Desai, the author of ''The Inheritance of Loss,'' in her apartment. (Photo by Liz O. Baylen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (93%); WRITERS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); ORPHANS (75%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); MOUNTAINS (60%) Books and Literature; Man Booker Prize; Awards, Decorations and Honors

PERSON: Dinitia Smith; Kiran Desi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); HIMALAYAS (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); SCOTLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



621 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Flood Missed a Fly, but Made A Stand That Changed Baseball

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
How strange that baseball's new labor contract was announced in St. Louis on Tuesday night, for that is where a proud center fielder named Curt Flood made a stand against his version of slavery.
 An industry awash in money will have peace for the next five years. Alex Rodriguez is making $252 million over these 10 years and clubs are building new palaces with luxury boxes for the shrimp-eating set because Flood fought the system.
''He put his career on the line,'' Marvin Miller, the head of the players' association then, said yesterday, recalling the brave, driven man who helped bring about free agency that enriched everybody except, of course, himself. 
 Today's nine-digit salaries began with a misjudged fly ball by Flood in the World Series of 1968 between these same Cardinals and Tigers. That was the year before division play began, which led to the current postseason playoffs that have turned the World Series into a dark, late-night coda to the frolics of the warmer months. 
 In 1968, in the Last Real World Series, Curt Flood botched a fly ball in the seventh game, turning a drive by Jim Northrup into a two-run triple that helped the Tigers win the Series after the Cardinals had won three of the first four games.
 The next spring, the patron of the Cardinals, Gussie Busch, lit into them for their alleged nonchalance, treating them like serfs who had let down their baron. 
 Flood, artistic and intelligent, had brooded all winter about his misplay. Now he was sure Busch was going to send him away, as owners had the right to do. But management held off until after the 1969 season, when Flood was included in a blockbuster trade with the Phillies. 
 His refusal to be traded -- even though the Supreme Court had allowed the owners to have their way with their vassals -- became one of the most important acts by a professional athlete in America.
 ''It's been written, Curt, that you're a man who makes $90,000 a year, which isn't exactly slave wages,'' Howard Cosell said to Flood on ABC. ''What's your retort to that?''
 ''A well-paid slave is nonetheless a slave,'' Flood replied.
 This exchange is recorded in a new book, ''A Well-Paid Slave: Curt Flood's Fight for Free Agency in Professional Sports,'' by Brad Snyder, published by Viking. Snyder has done excellent reporting on the complicated man, including claims that Flood, while adept with a pencil and sketch pad, did not paint the oil portraits attributed to him. Despite his personal flaws, Flood changed the way his business worked. 
 Yesterday, Miller recalled how it took him three years to prod the brightest major leaguers into questioning the reserve system. In December 1969, at a meeting in Puerto Rico, Flood faced tough questions from representatives of the Players Association.
 Tom Haller of the Giants, a white man, wanted to know if Flood, an African-American, was motivated by labor issues or civil-rights issues. Flood accepted the challenge from Haller and replied that his thrust was about the right of athletes to choose their own employer. Snyder and Miller say Flood was motivated by race as well as economics.
 ''I remember him as a stand-up guy,'' Miller said yesterday, praising Flood as ''bright, very social-minded'' and able to push himself because of the discrimination he had faced as a young player. 
 Flood eventually lost his Supreme Court case and made only a cameo return to the major leagues, living in Europe for part of a decade before coming home and dying of cancer in 1997. By then, Miller and players like Jim Hunter, Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally had challenged the reserve system, and won their cases. As of Tuesday, players and owners have agreed on a contract without any brinksmanship or labor stoppage. 
 Miller is not a fan of the current luxury-tax system that made the Yankees pay $34.05 million for going above the limits in 2005. He said yesterday that unions should not allow leagues to set arbitrary ceilings on how much teams can spend, even with a so-called tax. 
 He is also skeptical of the drug testing and the penalties that have gotten much steeper in the past year after pressure from Congress. Miller said that all sides lack scientific evidence of the dangers of steroids. If baseball were really interested in the players' health, Miller added, it should ban tobacco and test for usage. Now there's an idea.
 However, the old union man was happy with the prospect of peace and high salaries for five more years. ''I see the minimum salary near $400,000,'' Miller said, ''and I remember how the minimum was $6,000 when we started. That's magnificent.''
 Flood's principle concerned freedom, not his relatively high salary. Miller helped advance both. The two men are among the most important figures in baseball history, but are not likely to be elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame via an oversight vote in the near future. 
 The game goes on. With labor peace guaranteed, the Cardinals and the Tigers are playing another World Series in a new stadium with modern amenities. A man who lost track of a fly ball 38 years ago in St. Louis helped bring about this era of affluence all around.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Curt Flood, third from back, with his 1968 St. Louis Cardinals teammates, from front, Roger Maris, Tim McCarver, Bob Gibson, Mike Shannon, Lou Brock, Orlando Cepeda, Julian Javier and Dal Maxvill, and Manager Red Schoendienst. (Photo by Neil Leifer/Sports Illustrated)
 Curt Flood fought the reserve system to the Supreme Court. (Photo by Associated Press, 1967)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (74%) St Louis Cardinals

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%) George Vecsey; Curt (1938-97) Flood

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



622 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CHRYSLER'S FUTURE -- DaimlerChrysler executives refused to rule out the possibility that the Chrysler Group could be spun off or sold, after Chrysler announced that it lost $1.5 billion in the quarter. Though there are no indications that such a spin-off is imminent, the possibility of a sale is the latest sign of upheaval in the American auto industry. [Page C1.] 


DILLER HAS HIGHEST PAY -- Two surveys have named Barry Diller, chairman and chief executive of the Internet retailing company IAC/Interactive, this year's highest-paid executive. Both were critical of his pay relative to the company's performance, but Mr. Diller said his compensation was appropriate, considering ''the wealth created for shareholders over the last 11 years, me certainly among them.'' [C1.]

CLEAR CHANNEL MAY GO PRIVATE -- The Mays Family, which built Clear Channel Communications into the country's largest network of radio stations through decades of acquisitions, is in negotiations to be taken private by a consortium of investors for more than $18.5 billion, according to people involved in the talks. [C1.]

FED TAKES NO ACTION -- Saying that the economy was likely to continue growing at a ''moderate pace,'' the Federal Reserve held its benchmark interest rate steady and gave investors reason to think that the rate could remain at its current level for months to come. [C1.]

STOCKS EDGE UP -- Wall Street managed a tiny gain, enough to give the Dow Jones industrial average another record close, after the Fed stoked some fears of inflation pressures but implied that it was not intent on raising interest rates. [C15.]

CASINOS RETURN TO INDIANA -- After a six-decade absence, casino gaming makes its return next month to the French Lick valley in Southern Indiana, once famous for luxury resorts that attracted the elite. [A14.]

'GOOGLEBOMBING' THE CANDIDATES -- Fifty or so Republican candidates have been made targets in a sophisticated ''Google bombing'' campaign intended to game the search engine's ranking algorithms by forcing negative articles about them to the top of search results. [A18.]

TAKING CONTROL OF IMCLONE -- Carl C. Icahn won control of the cancer drug developer ImClone Systems after a two-month proxy battle. [C3.]

SHIFT POSSIBLE ON NYSE BOARD -- Eager to win approval for a deal to acquire Euronext, John Thain, chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange, said he would be open to having more Europeans on the board of the combined exchange. [C3.]

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE SLIPS -- Colgate-Palmolive said its third-quarter profit slipped 1 percent because of restructuring charges. [C6.]

PAULEY SUES THE TIMES -- The television news anchor Jane Pauley has sued The New York Times, saying she was misled to believe she was being interviewed for an article on mental health when she actually was being featured in an advertising supplement. [C7.]

WAL-MART DROPS AGENCY -- Wal-Mart is sending a clear signal that it wants to change the way it speaks -- and sells -- to consumers, by cutting ties to a long-time ad agency for the second time in less than three months. Stuart Elliot: Advertising. [C8.]

G.M. NARROWS LOSS -- General Motors reported its smallest quarterly loss in nearly two years but conceded that its turnaround remains in the early stages. [C13.]

HONDA PROFIT DOWN -- Honda Motor said second-quarter profit fell 4.3 percent after a 30.6 billion yen ($257 million) loss on derivatives. [C13.]

KRAFT SPINOFF STILL IN PLAY -- The Altria Group said it would finalize its long-anticipated decision to spin off Kraft Foods on Jan. 31, despite concerns about tobacco litigation. [C15.]

WELCH WEIGHING OFFER FOR GLOBE -- John F. Welch Jr., below, the former chief of General Electric, and Jack Connors, the co-founder of the Boston advertising firm Hill Holliday, are exploring the possibility of making an offer to buy The Boston Globe from The New York Times Company. The New York Times Company says The Globe is not for sale. [C3.]

BOEING'S NET FALLS SHARPLY -- Boeing said its third-quarter earnings fell 31 percent and that its 787 jet program would be more expensive than expected. [C7.]

CONOCOPHILLIPS EARNINGS INCH UP -- Third-quarter profit at ConocoPhillips inched higher but missed Wall Street's expectations as increased output tied to its acquisition of Burlington Resources was offset by higher taxes and reduced earnings from refining. [C15.]

JACK E. SCHOLL DIES -- Jack E. Scholl, who helped lead his family's pioneering foot-care company as it went public in the 1970's, died at his home in Northbrook. Ill. He was 80. [A21.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of DaimlerChrysler shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INFLATION (71%); CASINOS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); GAMING (63%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); LITIGATION (60%); APPROVALS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (55%); CANCER DRUGS (50%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (70%); GOOGLE INC (57%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); IACI (NASDAQ) (57%); CL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (75%); BARRY DILLER (75%); JOHN THAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



623 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; FRENCH LICK JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Town Hopes Casino Brings New Gilded Age

BYLINE: By MICHAEL RUBINO

DATELINE: FRENCH LICK, Ind. 

 BODY:
After a six-decade absence, casino gaming makes its return next month to this southern Indiana valley, once famous for luxury resorts that attracted the nation's elite.
 Workers are putting the finishing touches on the restoration of the French Lick Springs Resort, one of two landmark hotels less than a mile apart that are being revived. There, as part of a wider $382 million project, artisans apply gold leaf to one of the building's Beaux-Arts domes.
 Many hope this is the beginning of a second Gilded Age for French Lick, with the potential to heal the area's economic woes. The local chamber of commerce's Web site says the town's name derives from the rich mineral springs, which attracted animals that licked the waters and rocks. 
 The area is among the poorest in the state. Orange County has the highest unemployment rate in Indiana (7.5 percent), the lowest median household income ($32,699) and ranks near the bottom in per capita personal income ($22,161). 
 French Lick, the boyhood home of Larry Bird, the professional basketball star, has three liquor stores but not one grocery. Many of the downtown shops await occupants. 
 ''We were slowly becoming a ghost town,'' said Jerry Denbo, rolling back in his chair and sipping iced sweet tea. Mr. Denbo, a French Lick native and state representative who was first elected in 1990, spent most of his years in the Indiana General Assembly amassing the clout to help bring gambling back to the county.
 ''It was kind of like this community suffered from battered wife syndrome,'' said Mr. Denbo, a Democrat. ''People here thought, 'We're desperate and poor -- what can we do?' Once people get some money in their pockets, you'll see some changes.''
 For now, though, those changes center on the French Lick Springs Hotel and the West Baden Springs Hotel, a National Historic Landmark celebrated for its six-story domed atrium.
 In addition to the restoration of the two hotels, the project includes an 84,000-square-foot casino, an events center and two golf courses.
 The financial force behind the project is Indiana's own Carnegie, Bill Cook, a manufacturer of medical devices whose net worth is estimated by Forbes magazine to be $3.2 billion. 
 Mr. Cook's company, the Cook Group, joined with Indiana's largest private developer, the Lauth Property Group, to form Blue Sky, which was awarded an operating agents contract by the Indiana Gaming Commission in 2005. 
 Mr. Cook, who declined to be interviewed, has spent $34 million of his own money to renovate the West Baden Springs Hotel and has pledged to funnel the proceeds into local economic development projects. Both hotels opened at the turn of the 20th century and became Jazz Age playgrounds. 
 Before the Depression, the rich and famous lounged in pools of medicinal mineral water, drank illicit bourbon, and won and lost fortunes gambling in the back rooms of rickety juke joints. 
 Guests included heroes -- Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Joe Louis and the Marx Brothers -- and villains --Al Capone, Diamond Jim Brady and John Dillinger. 
 By the end of the 1920's, there were 30 hotels and 15 clubs throughout the Springs Valley. The Depression hit the community hard, and it suffered a second blow when the state banned gambling in the late 1940's. Tourism and the two grand hotels remained but never recovered.
 Given its scope, the development could effect real change. 
 Of the 1,013 resort employees who have already been hired, 566 are from Orange County. There are $15 million worth of public works projects in the pipeline, including a $5.5 million downtown revitalization. 
 Because of its share of casino revenue, French Lick will work with an estimated annual budget of $4 million per year, up from $900,000.
 Janice Lindsay, a retired grade-school teacher and lifelong Orange County resident, is ready for change but wary of the side effects. A year ago she helped found the Orange County Center for Women's Ministry, an organization that helps women deal with gambling-related problems. Mrs. Lindsay dislikes gambling but concedes something needed to be done: the community was ''dying a slow death.''
 ''When you live in a community where things aren't happening, that creates a defeatist attitude,'' she said after a luncheon for retired teachers in the back room of the Villager, a West Baden diner. ''Why stay? Why do anything? There used to be a sense of hopelessness here.''
 Heather Smith, a waitress clearing tables and collecting her tips, stopped long enough to add her two cents. ''The casino is going to be a boost,'' she said. ''I think this is going to benefit lots of businesses in our town. This is going to help our restaurant and others, too.''
 Cathy Walker is optimistic about the casino's impact but surprised that residents are not doing more to take advantage of the opportunities it will present.
 A year ago, she and her husband, Randy, moved from Kentucky to French Lick and opened the Home Place, a shop where they make and sell primitive furniture. The shop is one of the very few downtown, and the only one open on Sundays. ''A lot of people shop on Sundays, especially in a tourist area,'' Mrs. Walker said. ''My goodness, you need to be here on Sunday. There's nothing here but us.''
 She thinks that will eventually change, but said first residents must forget about the past and rediscover their gambler's spirit.
 ''You don't get something for nothing, you just don't,'' Mrs. Walker said. ''I think this casino's going to make everyone's life better here -- if they take advantage of it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a casino and hotel project intended to revitalize French Lick, Ind., erroneously included Diamond Jim Brady among infamous figures like Al Capone who visited the city in the early 20th century. Diamond Jim Brady was a railroad tycoon and philanthropist often considered a glutton, but not a villain. An accompanying map of Indiana mislabeled a north-south highway cutting midway through the state. It is U.S. 31, not I-65.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indiana gambling laws require casinos to be on water, so a lake was built for the boat-themed casino at the French Lick Springs Hotel. (Photo by A. J. Mast for The New York Times)Map of Indiana highlighting French Lick: A French Lick resident said the town was ''dying a slow death.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (66%); GOLF (66%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (64%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%); RANKINGS (52%); BASKETBALL (52%) Gambling; Casinos

COMPANY: COOK GROUP INC (81%); LAUTH PROPERTY GROUP INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (81%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (81%)

PERSON: WILLIAM COOK (78%); WILLIAM M COOK (73%) Michael Rubino

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) French Lick (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



624 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: In Old Textile District, the Free-Trade Issue Dominates

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: KANNAPOLIS, N.C., Oct. 23 

 BODY:
It has been three years since the old brick textile mill here shut down, throwing 4,800 people out of work. Yet the mill, which once made pillowcases and closed in part because of competition from imports, casts a shadow over the heated race for Congress in this once booming industrial enclave of North Carolina.
 As if by chance, though probably not, both candidates are linked to the old mill. Charles Cannon, legendary founder of the Cannon textile empire and grandfather of Representative Robin Hayes, the Republican incumbent, built it in the 1920's, and Mr. Hayes worked summers there as a youth.
Larry Kissell, his Democratic opponent, worked there for 27 years before becoming a high school teacher in 2001, when, he says, he saw ''the handwriting on the wall'' about its future. Now his campaign is organized around the threat of foreign competition and Mr. Hayes's tiebreaking vote last year for a trade accord with Central America. 
 ''The No. 1 issue voters care about this year is jobs,'' Mr. Kissell said Monday as he campaigned door to door in a neighborhood near the rubble-strewn field where the Kannapolis mill once stood. ''We have lost 10,000 jobs in the textile industry here in the last several years. Free trade has not been good for this district.''
 By most accounts, Mr. Kissell has an uphill battle in trying to unseat Mr. Hayes, who has withstood challenges on the trade issue in the past. In 2001, he was put on the defensive for casting another tiebreaking vote for a trade measure, after a last-minute reversal accompanied by his weeping on the House floor.
 But Mr. Kissell is one of a dozen Democratic candidates for the House, and a few for the Senate, who are making at least some headway in tapping voter anxiety about trade. 
 In Ohio, Senator Mike DeWine, a Republican in a race against Representative Sherrod Brown, is being hammered for his support of trade bills. In upstate New York, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, chairman of the House Republicans' campaign committee, faces stiff opposition over the same issue.
 If many pro-trade Republicans lose on Election Day, President Bush, who has had trouble winning approval of trade deals in the past, could face even tougher odds.
 ''If the Democrats do as well as it appears, you're going to see more resistance to trade agreements,'' said Mickey Kantor, a top trade negotiator under President Bill Clinton, who corralled a hundred or so Democrats for the trade deals of the 1990's.
 By contrast, only a handful of Democrats voted for the deals negotiated by Mr. Bush, in an environment of Congressional economic populism that has led to other fights, including widespread criticism of China's economic practices and broad opposition to foreign purchases of American companies. 
 The antitrade climate has recently persuaded Republicans to avoid putting lawmakers like Mr. Hayes on the spot. In September, they pulled bills opening up trade with Vietnam, Peru and a number of poor countries. There is talk that especially if the Democrats win a majority in either chamber, Republicans may try to pass these bills in a lame-duck session before the new Congress arrives in January.
 ''At the very least, Democrats are going to demand new requirements on enforcement of labor, environmental and corruption problems with our trading partners,'' Mr. Kantor said. ''I would welcome that.''
 Trade is not the only issue here in North Carolina's Eighth Congressional District, which spreads across the piedmont in the center of the state and encompasses old and new high-tech industries, farms, the prosperous banking corridors of Charlotte and people who work at Fort Bragg, where support for the Iraq war and for Republicans remains high.
 Even some Democrats concede that Mr. Hayes has done well for many of his constituents, especially farmers and the defense industry. He also points with pride to his efforts in getting state and county financing for Castle & Cooke and the Dole Food Company to build a corporate research center on the site of the razed Kannapolis mill.
 Further, his record on free trade is not easy to simplify. The Democratic campaign has focused on his last-minute decision to cast the deciding vote for the Central American Free Trade Agreement last year, when he yielded to blandishments from Republican leaders after vowing to vote no. Mr. Kissell says the vote was a ''flip-flop'' that broke faith with constituents, but Mr. Hayes argues that the late concessions he wrung from the Bush administration changed the nature of what he was voting for.
 Among the promises, he says, was one that led to an agreement with China later in the year imposing American quotas on 36 types of textile imports. Another brought a clause in the Central America accord that requires that future clothing imports from Nicaragua include interior lining made in the remaining mills of his home state.
 ''I got commitments the length and breadth of which I had never seen for my district,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''So it's not a flip-flop. I voted for a whole different piece of legislation than the one that had been discussed up to that point. It was a tremendous leap in the right direction for this district.''
 The congressman says his views on trade have evolved over the years from one of reflexive opposition to one of accepting some of the reality of global competition.
 ''When I first went to Congress,'' said Mr. Hayes, who is now concluding his fourth term, ''my outlook was to vote no and stop these trade agreements. Well, obviously that wasn't working. Do you take something that's not working and hope for better results? I don't think so. Or do you slow down free trade and in the meantime bring additional opportunities to the district?''
 To demonstrate, Mr. Hayes stumped the farm areas of his district on Monday with Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to tell voters that the Central America agreement had cleared the way for more soybeans, cotton, hogs and chickens to be exported.
 ''It's awfully easy to denigrate free trade,'' Mr. Johanns told a farm group in Monroe, southeast of Kannapolis. ''This agreement was very much in favor of the United States farmer.''
 Though Mr. Kissell's chances may not be great, Democrats say he could pull an upset, given his creative insurgent tactics. He got a lot of publicity, for example, from a stunt selling gasoline at $1.22 a gallon to remind voters of the price when his opponent first took office eight years ago.
 And when news reports showed that Mr. Kissell had $88.94 in his campaign account, compared with $1 million for Mr. Hayes, he merrily announced that he was sorry it was not zero. An additional $150,000 quickly came in, along with promises of help from two popular North Carolina Democrats, former Senator John Edwards and former Gov. Jim Hunt.
 In interviews, both candidates said national issues like the scandals in Congress and the Iraq war were not foremost in the minds of constituents. Mr. Kissell treads lightly on the war, and also takes a hard-line stance on immigration, opposing legalized status for any illegal immigrants.
 Mr. Hayes looks confident, a man who can draw on his family's role here. Traveling across the area in a pickup truck, he loves to point out landmarks: the hometown of the country singer Randy Travis, a friend's agricultural processing plant, a new titanium factory.
 ''Welcome to Oakboro, where they have the biggest Fourth of July parade in the district,'' he said as the place whizzed by. ''There's Stanly High School, where we just stood up an R.O.T.C. unit the other day.''
 Asked about the mood of the district, he said with a smile, ''Well, they like their congressman.''
 In the 19th century the piedmont was a place of farming, and in the 20th a place of manufacturing. In the 21st century, he said, it will retool to new industries and businesses.
 The campaign against him, he said, is out of a Democratic playbook.
 '' 'You got to attack Hayes on trade,' '' he said. '' 'That's the way to get him.' Whoever the candidate is, they latch on to that.
 ''Meanwhile, we continue doing the same thing. We're here, we talk to them, we listen. They don't necessarily think you'll solve their problems, but they want to know you're interested.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the congressional race in the Eighth District of North Carolina incorrectly described the work experience of the Democratic candidate, Larry Kissell. He worked for 27 years at a textile mill in Biscoe-Star, N.C. He did not work at the now-closed mill in Kannapolis, about 60 miles away, which was built by the grandfather of Representative Robin Hayes, the Republican incumbent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Robin Hayes, handshaking at top with Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns at his side, and his Democratic challenger, Larry Kissell, who says that ''free trade has not been good for this district.'' (Photographs by Chris Keane for The New York Times)Map of North Carolina highlighting the Eight Congressional District: When Kannapolis lost a textile mill three years ago, nearly 5,000 people were put out of work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (54%) International Trade and World Market; Election Issues; Elections; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: LARRY KISSELL (90%); BILL CLINTON (72%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (57%); MIKE JOHANNS (57%); SHERROD BROWN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); PAULA G ROSPUT REYNOLDS (50%) Steven R Weisman; Larry Kissell; Robin (Rep) Hayes

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Latin America; Kannapolis (Nc); North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



625 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Conceding Missteps, Bush Urges Patience on Iraq

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Kate Zernike contributed reporting from Cincinnati.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Facing public dismay over the war in Iraq, President Bush on Wednesday somberly acknowledged the broad scope of American setbacks and missteps there. But he urged Americans to look beyond the violence on their TV screens and avoid disillusionment over a war he said was being won. 
 Mr. Bush's comments, in a news conference at the White House, were a stark indication of concern within the West Wing over eroding support for the war. The violence in Iraq has reached near-record peaks just as voters are considering their final choices for Congress in midterm elections less than two weeks from now, a contest that Mr. Bush has cast in part as a national referendum on the conflict.
 While most Republican candidates have sought to turn voters' attention away from the war, Mr. Bush chose to address it head-on, adopting a subdued tone, a new emphasis on tactical flexibility, and directly acknowledging the public's reservations. [News analysis, Page A10.]
 ''I know many Americans are not satisfied with the situation in Iraq; I'm not satisfied, either,'' Mr. Bush said. ''That is why we're taking new steps to help secure Baghdad, and constantly adjusting our tactics across the country to meet the changing threat.'' 
 Mr. Bush expressed general support for Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, even as Mr. Maliki used his own news conference to distance himself from the United States. Speaking in Baghdad, Mr. Maliki said he had not endorsed an American notion of a time line for stabilizing Iraq, and he criticized a raid carried out by American forces. [Page A11.]
 With Mr. Bush and Mr. Maliki clearly focused on their domestic political audiences, the political tumult in both countries carries the potential to drive them further apart. 
 Mr. Bush's comments were the latest iteration in a recent rhetorical evolution that has seen him move from vowing to ''stay the course'' in Iraq to promising flexibility. But Mr. Bush also said, ''We cannot allow our dissatisfaction to turn into disillusionment about our purpose in this war.'' He said eight separate times, in various formulations, that he was committed to getting the job done.
 When asked whether the United States was winning in Iraq, Mr. Bush said, ''Absolutely, we're winning'' -- a declaration that prompted a volley of statements from Democratic leaders, who accused Mr. Bush of being ''in denial'' about Iraqi violence. 
 Mr. Bush indicated no major changes in his overall strategy in Iraq, saying he continued to support Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the generals overseeing the war. But he also spoke in terms of a conflict that would be long, hard and bloody. Asked whether the United States would seek permanent military bases in Iraq, Mr. Bush said that would be up to the Iraqi government, adding, ''Frankly, it's not in much of a position to be thinking about what the world is going to look like 5 or 10 years from now.''
 It was the second time this month that Mr. Bush had held a news conference at which he took pains to explain his war plan, which has come under increasing criticism even from fellow Republicans. Many of them fear that the administration's failure to squelch the violence in Iraq is seriously harming the party's prospects for retaining control of Congress. Mr. Bush on Wednesday emphasized that he was well aware of the graphic images Americans were seeing nightly, as well as the many unfulfilled promises and predictions made by his administration over the course of the conflict.
 ''We overestimated the capability of the civil service in Iraq to continue to provide essential services to the Iraqi people,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We did not expect the Iraqi Army, including the Republican Guard, to melt away in the way that it did in the face of advancing coalition forces.''
 Mr. Bush said that as of last spring, he had expected that he would be able to reduce the American troop commitment by early next year. There are currently more than 140,000 troops in Iraq. He portrayed the decision against reducing troops by early next year as an example of his willingness to alter his approach. 
 Before taking questions from reporters, Mr. Bush offered an opening statement that amounted to a kind of scorecard for Iraq, in which he acknowledged disappointments as well as successes. Among successes, he listed the capture of Saddam Hussein, free elections, and economic progress for farms and small businesses. Among the developments he called ''not encouraging,'' he listed ''the bombing of the U.N. headquarters in Baghdad, the fact that we did not find stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction, and the continued loss of some of America's finest sons and daughters.''
 Mr. Bush alluded to a theory embraced by White House aides that the public would support a conflict in which it could see a clear path to victory. ''It's my responsibility to provide the American people with a candid assessment on the way forward. There is tough fighting ahead,'' Mr. Bush said, adding, ''The fact that the fighting is tough does not mean our efforts in Iraq are not worth it.'' 
 Campaigning in Cincinnati on Wednesday, Vice President Dick Cheney echoed the president's remarks. ''We'll be flexible,'' he said. ''We'll do all we can to adapt to conditions on the ground. We'll make every change that is necessary to do the job, to finish the job, and to bring the troops home with the honor they've earned.''
 Aides to Mr. Bush have acknowledged that the rising violence in Iraq was depressing support for the war. And the bad news was being amplified in Democratic campaign ads declaring the war a failure. In all, Democrats have had 220 ads mentioning Iraq, running them 46,402 times at a cost of at least $41.6 million since January, according to an analysis by the Campaign Media Analysis Group. Republicans have run 48 ads on the Iraq campaign 11,677 times, costing at least $8.5 million.
 Asked about debate among Republicans over whether the president was helping by calling attention to Iraq, the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, said that Mr. Bush was obliged to do so. ''Everybody's talking about it, everybody's writing about it, all of his critics are on television talking about it,'' he said. ''It's important for the president's voice to be heard in his own words.''
 While Mr. Bush has said repeatedly that the two parties' approaches to Iraq should be a major issue in November, he acknowledged Wednesday that ultimately one person should be held responsible for progress in the war. ''The ultimate accountability,'' Mr. Bush said, ''rests with me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of men arrested in Karbala, Iraq, yesterday on kidnapping charges were held by Iraqi police officers during what the authorities described as a roundup of two gangs. (Photo by Mohammed Sawaf/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A10)
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 PRIME MINISTER NURI KAMAL AL-MALIKI OF IRAQ (Pool photo by Wathiq Kuzaie)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; Election Issues; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



626 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Draft Iran Resolution Would Restrict Students

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and THOM SHANKER; Elaine Sciolino contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
The United States and three European allies have given Russia and China a draft text for a Security Council resolution against Iran's nuclear program. The proposal includes the extraordinary step of preventing Iranian students from studying nuclear physics at foreign universities and colleges.
 The draft resolution would also prohibit any technical or financial assistance that could benefit Iran's nuclear program, and would impose a visa ban on any Iranians involved in nuclear activities, according to European diplomats involved in the negotiations. 
Bush administration officials and their European counterparts have been squabbling over details of the draft resolution for the past week, and the horse-trading will probably increase now that the Russians and the Chinese have been given the draft. 
 United Nations ambassadors from the six countries -- the five permanent members of the Security Council and Germany -- are scheduled to meet Thursday to debate the resolution, officials said. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged the Security Council to move rapidly to adopt the resolution, saying the authority and standing of the international community were at stake.
 ''For the international community to be credible, it must pass a resolution now that holds Iran accountable for its defiance,'' Ms. Rice said during a speech on Asia policy at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative Washington policy research organization.
 She said that Iran and North Korea had challenged international attempts to halt the proliferation of unconventional weapons, and cautioned that the Iranian leadership was assessing how strictly the world community would enforce recent United Nations sanctions on North Korea.
 ''The Iranian regime is watching how the world responds to North Korea's behavior, and it can now see that the international community will confront this threat,'' she said. ''Iran can see that the path North Korea is choosing is not leading to more prestige and more prosperity or more security; it's leading to just the opposite.''
 But after five months of missed deadlines, counterproposals and diplomatic overtures on Iran, few officials from any of the six countries involved were willing to predict when a final sanctions resolution might pass the Security Council. ''A matter of weeks,'' one senior Bush administration official said. ''Maybe.''
 ''Will it be the resolution that we would have if we had written it by ourselves? Probably not, but that's part of multilateral diplomacy,'' Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said. ''We fully support this draft, and we look forward to its adoption.'' 
 As is customary in diplomatic negotiations, officials who were most up to date on the talks would not allow themselves to be publicly identified by name or nationality. Those who discussed it on background came from several nations involved in the talks.
 It was unclear just how far-reaching the proposed ban against nuclear education for Iranian students abroad would be, and the diplomats involved in the negotiations did not seem to have resolved that issue. 
 The prohibition would ban any training and education of Iranian citizens if it could eventually contribute to nuclear and ballistic missile programs. But whether such a ban would extend to all physics courses, or even to mathematics and other courses, remained undetermined.
 The bickering of late has largely been tactical, with the United States on one side and Europe on the other, with both sides trying to decide how best to get the Russians and Chinese to sign on to tough sanctions. 
 The American ambassador to the United Nations, John R. Bolton, for instance demanded that the draft resolution bar Russia from continuing to build Iran's first nuclear power plant -- at Bushehr, in the southwest of the country -- American and European negotiators said. While some American officials acknowledged that a provision against all work on Bushehr was unrealistic, Mr. Bolton wanted to put it on the table as a bargaining chip to get other Russian concessions, European diplomats said. 
 The French and British, however, disagreed with that approach, arguing that Bushehr was a ''red line'' for the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, and there was no point in putting something in the draft that would come out anyway. 
 ''It's like a flea market,'' said one European diplomat. ''The Americans say, 'We have to make the text even stronger because we know the Russians will water it down.' But that's not a productive way of thinking.''
 The draft resolution states that sanctions would apply to fuel at Bushehr but not construction, diplomats said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Condoleezza Rice told the Heritage Foundation in Washington that Iran was watching to see how the world reacted to North Korea. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (73%); PHYSICS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (57%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (82%) Security Council (Un); United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%) Helene Cooper; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Russia; China; Germany; Iran; Great Britain; France

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



627 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Era of What's Next

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: Wooster, Ohio 

 BODY:
Sometimes liberalism is dominant and sometimes conservatism is dominant, but sometimes there is no dominant ideology.
 Between 1932 and 1968, liberalism dominated American politics. The big accomplishments were liberal accomplishments -- Social Security, Medicare, the civil rights movement. Even if Republicans sometimes held the White House, the general drift of things was still to the left.
 Between 1980 and 2006, conservatism was dominant. The big accomplishments were conservative accomplishments -- the defeat of communism, the reinvigoration of the economy through deregulation, tax reform and monetarism, the rebalancing of the culture to emphasize family, work and individual responsibility. Even if Democrats sometimes held the White House, the general drift of things was to the right. 
 But in some eras there is no dominant political tendency. The 1970's were such a period. That decade was marked not by a change in political winds so much as by disillusionment and a scrambling of political categories. People who once had been liberals drifted away. Voters became cynical about politics itself. The pendulum swung not only from left to right but from politics to antipolitics. Jimmy Carter promised a break from the normal methods of political life.
 We're about to enter another of those periods without a dominant ideology. It's clear that this election will mark the end of conservative dominance. This election is a period, not a comma in political history.
 That's clear not only because Republicans could lose their majorities, but for several other reasons. First, conservatives have exhausted their agenda. They have little new left to propose and have lost their edge on issues like fiscal discipline and foreign policy. Second, conservatives are beset by scandals, the kind of institutional decay that afflicts movements at the end of their political lives. Third, the Reagan coalition is splintering, with the factions going off in wildly different directions.
 Fourth, there is no viable orthodox conservative candidate for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination. Orthodox conservatives like Allen, Frist and Santorum are fading, and only heterodox figures like McCain, Giuliani and Romney are rising. 
 If you look at the political landscape, identification with the Republican Party is falling but identification with the Democratic Party is not rising. Instead, there is a spike in the number of people who do not identify with either. People correctly perceive that neither party has a coherent agenda this year. 
 In the near term, the candidates who thrive will be those who offer a new way of politics. This might be the maverick independence of McCain, or the ostentatiously deliberative style of Obama, or it could be the manner of somebody whom none of us are even thinking about. Candidates who seem conventional will have a tough time. This includes Hillary Clinton.
 Process issues will come to the fore, issues that have to do with the way politics is conducted. So will issues of character and decision-making style. George Bush's secretive and declarative method will soon seem archaic -- like the silent picture acting style in the age of sound. Instead, voters will look for candidates as interactive as the technology around them. 
 The center of political gravity will shift. In the liberal era, the urban Northeast dominated the landscape. In the conservative era, it was in the South and in bedroom communities like those in Southern California. In the coming era, the center of gravity will move to the West and the Midwestern plains, and to the pragmatic, untethered office park suburbs sprouting up there. 
 The people who will be most important are those who can most precisely identify the new era's defining problems. The first is the continuing rise of Islamic fundamentalism. It's clear the categories of the nation-state era -- rollback and containment -- are not working to reverse extremism, but what will? The second big problem is entitlement spending and the stultification of government. 
 The third challenge is the emergence of China and India -- seizing the opportunities afforded by those new workers, mitigating the pain associated with tougher competition and managing the fiscal imbalances. The fourth is the growing importance of cognitive skills and cultural capital, the need to surround people, especially children, with stable relationships if they are to flourish. 
 One party will become distracted by passing squalls, but the other will focus on those issues. Then, a new period of dominance will begin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (94%); CONSERVATISM (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); DEREGULATION (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (57%); TAX REFORM (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Election Issues; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



628 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Weakening the Fight for Mine Safety

 BODY:
Despite being twice rebuffed by the Senate, President Bush has named Richard Stickler, a stolid mining industry careerist, to run the mine safety agency whose serial ineptitude has been laid bare this year by the deaths of 42 mineworkers. Waiting until the Senate left town for the elections, Mr. Bush resorted to a recess appointment to place Mr. Stickler at the heart of enforcing new safety reforms that, in earlier hearings, the appointee himself had claimed were not at all that necessary. 
 To the contrary, these reforms became a crying need brought home to the nation from the depths of the Sago mine disaster in West Virginia, where 12 workers died in January. Sago presented a clinic in failed government oversight. The new law would double a miner's emergency oxygen to two hours; mandate electronic devices to track trapped miners; and repair the damage originally done by the administration in cutting more than 200 mine safety inspectors in the name of budget economy.
Mr. Stickler points to his six years as Pennsylvania mine safety chief to rebut criticism that he is the latest example in the administration's dangerous history of packing safety agencies with pro-industry regulators. But the bulk of his career was in corporate management of mines. Miners and lawmakers have cited the federal agency's own data in warning that injury rates at his mines were higher than the national average. The administration's pro-industry tack is a running scandal exemplified by Steven Griles, a mining lobbyist who was appointed deputy secretary of the interior. Mr. Griles devoted four years to rolling back mine regulations and then returned to lobbying for an industry long known for its patronage clout with politicians.
 Senate opposition to Mr. Stickler reached the point that the nomination was twice withheld. The Republican majority leader, Bill Frist, said that if the president resorted to a recess appointment -- a device guaranteeing Mr. Stickler at least a year in office -- the Senate would schedule a showdown vote in response. Senator Frist must be held to his promise. Lawmakers should demand a bulldog enforcement director rather than another industry lapdog.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Thursday about President Bush's recess appointment of the head of the mine safety agency misstated the authority of Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, in this matter. Mr. Frist no longer has the power to submit the controversial nominee to a floor vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINE SAFETY REGULATION (92%); MINES & MINING (92%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%) Coal; Editorials; Mines and Mining; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Appointments and Executive Changes; Accidents and Safety

ORGANIZATION: MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (59%) Mine Safety and Health Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Richard M Stickler; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006



629 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Midterm Madness)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2006

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Look Out, Middle-Class Families Democrats Want to Cut Your Taxes

BYLINE: RAHM EMANUEL AND BRUCE REED


HIGHLIGHT: Bruce Reed and Rahm Emanuel highlight Democratic challengers who have tax cut plans.

 BODY:
President Bush and the average American have one thing in common, after all: Neither can come up with a good reason to vote for the Republicans this fall.
The White House has given up trying to persuade Americans to stay the course behind Bush's failed agenda. Instead, Republicans say they will spend the last two weeks of the campaign trying to run against the Democratic agenda. 
Go ahead, make our day!
We couldn't be happier with the G.O.P.'s desperation strategy, because when it comes to leading America in a new direction, Democrats have a plan and Republicans don't. On Tuesday, President Bush attacked Democrats on the economy and said we are "genetically disposed" to raise taxes. The president sure has a lot to say for a guy who has added $3 trillion to the national debt and brought American families higher costs and smaller incomes. But he might want to take another look at the genetic disposition of the Democratic challengers on the ballot in these midterms. In race after race, Democratic candidates have pledged to do what Bush and the Republican Congress have not: cut taxes for the middle class.Tammy Duckworth, the Democratic nominee for the open seat in Illinois's 6th Congressional District, wants to protect middle-class taxpayers in her district with a permanent fix for the Alternative Minimum Tax. She also supports tax reform. "The way to reduce the deficit is not to raise taxes on middle-income Americans, who already are carrying too big a share of the burden," Duckworth has said. "By removing the hundreds of special provisions in the code that cost the Treasury billions of dollars, we can reduce the burden on middle-income Americans who are forced to pick up the slack."
Jill Derby, the Democrat running in another open seat in Nevada's 2nd Congressional District, wants to cut the payroll tax. "Currently, 3 out of 4 households pay more in payroll taxes than in personal income taxes, and reduced payroll tax could stimulate job growth and slow the flow of jobs overseas," Derby has said. "There are certainly some things Congress can do to lighten the tax burden on families but career politicians have failed to act."
Kirsten Gillibrand, who is challenging Republican Congressman John Sweeney of New York, wants to give middle-class families tax breaks for college tuition. As the College Board announced this week, college tuition has gone up 35 percent in the past five years in real, inflation-adjusted dollars - at a time when competing in the global economy requires a college degree more than ever. Gillibrand and other Democratic candidates across the country believe that a middle-class tax cut for college makes a lot more sense than the only plan Americans have seen from Bush and the Republican Congress - the largest cut in college aid in history. Democratic candidates everywhere are making the same point: Democrats are going to cut middle-class taxes, not raise them. To renew the social contract for an increasingly competitive world, our tax system should give Americans more opportunity and security, not more of the burden. We need tax reform that gives people who don't start out wealthy the chance to build wealth, and helps every American secure the pillars of middle-class life: raising a family, buying a home, paying for college and saving for retirement.
Republicans' supply-side agenda, on the other hand, is the economic equivalent of intelligent design: No matter how long conservatives believe in it, they never gather enough evidence to teach it in the classroom. Democrats' tax-cut plans are designed to address the realities of middle-class life. When the costs of college, health care and energy rise - and paychecks don't - middle-class Americans shouldn't have to keep watching tax cuts go to somebody else.
We thank the White House for reminding voters that this election is a choice between the failed Republican course and a new direction for America. We know which agenda the American people will choose.

        
Slouching Toward the New Optimism
        
How the Foley Scandal Has Affected Voters
        
Can Safe Seats Save the Republicans?
        
The Blizzard of '06
        
Channeling Our Inner Orwell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (83%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX INCREASES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAX REFORM (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); INCOME TAX (65%) Democrats; Republicans; taxes; voters

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TAMMY DUCKWORTH (79%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



630 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TONIGHT

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

10 P.M. (CMT) CMT CROSS COUNTRY: VINCE GILL AND ALISON KRAUSS -- Mr. Gill and Ms. Krauss have a history of making beautiful music together. Two of the biggest individual names in the genre, the longtime friends and colleagues won a Grammy for best country collaboration with vocals for the title track on Mr. Gill's 1996 album, ''High Lonesome Sound.'' In this special, they take turns performing each other's songs, including ''What the Cowgirls Do,'' ''Maybe'' and ''The Reason Why'' as well as a version of Genesis's ''That's All,'' at a concert in Nashville. 


5 P.M. (9) THE TYRA BANKS SHOW -- Mustsee TV: five men answer questions about love, sex, infidelity and how they feel about women's bodies. Dr. Drew Pinsky helps viewers decipher how the male mind works.

8 P.M. (CMT) TRICK MY TRUCK -- The Mafia remakes the rig of Michael Watkins in honor of his son, Trey, who was killed in a car accident last year.

8 P.M. (ABC) IT'S THE GREAT PUMPKIN, CHARLIE BROWN -- 40TH ANNIVERSARY -- Linus (right, with Sally) looks as young as he did back on Halloween 1966, when he first plopped himself down in the pumpkin patch. And there's still no mold on the vines. This special edition includes a bonus cartoon in which Linus runs for class president.

9 P.M. (13) BATTLE LINES 2006 -- Jim Lehrer is host of this special examining the issues that are sending people to the polls this fall and how their choices might affect the balance of power in Washington and around the country. Gwen Ifill reports on races that are turning on topics like the war in Iraq, immigration policy and economics. Afterward, a roundtable discussion looks at what's at stake.

9 P.M. (NBC) LAS VEGAS -- The roulette ball is still spinning in this season premiere set amid the casinos of Sin City. Tonight, Ed (James Caan) is attacked by an armed gunman, Delinda (Molly Sims) reveals her feelings for Danny (Josh Duhamel), and Sam (Vaness Marcil) tries to get a lost whale to move out of the Montecito's Hawaiian Villas. The singer Jewel and Cheryl Ladd guest star.

10 P.M. (Showtime) MASTERS OF HORROR: THE DAMNED THING -- Tobe Hooper, the mastermind behind the terror in ''The Texas Chainsaw Massacre'' and ''Poltergeist,'' directs this season opener in which a monstrous force infiltrates a Texas town, turning its inhabitants against their closest kin. Sean Patrick Flanery (above) plays the local sheriff who, while harboring a few of his own demons, must overcome his rage to restore order. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Matt Huesmann/CMT)
(Photo by United Features Syndicate)
 (Photo by Diyah Pera/Showtime)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (85%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (67%); SHERIFFS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); HALLOWEEN (65%); GAMING (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (61%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (51%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (75%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



631 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Film in Review; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Cocaine Cowboys

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:

Opens today in New York and Miami
Directed by Billy Corben
118 minutes
 Overlong, overexcited and over the top, Billy Corben's bottom-feeding documentary, ''Cocaine Cowboys,'' would be more enjoyable if it weren't so impressed with its subject matter and so devoted to pictures of dead bodies. A hyperventilating account of the blood-drenched Miami drug culture in the 1970's and 80's, the movie overflows with cops and coroners, snitches and smugglers, reporters and importers. Most resemble refugees from ''Scarface,'' and all talk a mile a minute -- except for the dead bodies, of course. 
 Punctuating interviews with archival film and crime scene photographs (some in merciful black and white), ''Cocaine Cowboys'' chronicles the explosion of South Florida's ''cocaine economy'' and the ensuing turf wars between the Colombians and the Cubans. 
 Our primary guides are Jon Roberts and Mickey Munday, twin pillars of the low-life population, complete with disco hair, criminal records and colorful tales of their exploits with the Medellin cartel. Seeing their remorselessness and raising it is Jorge Ayala, an enforcer whose lengthy jailhouse interview -- delivered in English so slurred that he seems to be enunciating through novocaine -- is a chilling litany of casual assassinations.
 Yet the enterprise that kick-started both Miami's real estate boom and Don Johnson's television career was eventually reined in by the city's expanding law enforcement and the smugglers' shrinking brain cells. As Jan Hammer's appropriately sleazy score twangs in the background, Mr. Corben sifts through the carnage for nuggets of humor to relieve the film's atmosphere of unrepentant greed. 
 It's not enough; ''Cocaine Cowboys'' is a tabloid headline, a movie as oppressive and inarticulate as the lives it represents. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 ''Cocaine Cowboys'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has brutal violence, foul language and obscene wads of cash.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A mug shot of Jorge Ayala, in the documentary ''Cocaine Cowboys.'' (Photo by Magnolia Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (92%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REFUGEES (56%); CARTELS (52%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Jeannette Catsoulis; Billy Corben

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



632 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Where the Beat Goes On

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
CBGB may be gone, but the music isn't.
 When the doors closed 12 days ago at that cavelike, flier-encrusted Bowery temple to rock 'n' roll, which opened in 1973 and served as the launching pad for countless New York bands -- from the Ramones and Talking Heads to Sonic Youth and Living Colour -- critics were quick to call it the end of an era. Its demise, brought about by a dispute with its landlord over unpaid rent, seemed to fit a sad and familiar pattern: a scrappy but vibrant rock club was yielding to economic pressure in a heated real estate market.
But CB's is leaving a rock scene that, despite some high-profile departures, is as healthy as it has been in decades, with new clubs dotting the map from Midtown Manhattan to Greenpoint and Park Slope in Brooklyn. For every Bottom Line or Fez or Continental that has shut down or quit live music in the last couple of years, a Rockwood Music Hall, Union Hall or Studio B has opened up -- and maybe a Fontana's or Club Midway as well. And in the next few months, at least five major spaces are set to open, giving the city's rock infrastructure its most substantial expansion in years. 
 ''Right now there's a renaissance of venues in New York,'' said Adam Shore, the manager of Vice Records in Brooklyn and a veteran club trawler. ''This is a great time. It's going to be pretty cutthroat for promoters, but it's great for bands and agents and fans.''
 The best, if most exhausting, overview of the city's rock clubs is the CMJ Music Marathon, the annual conference of hungry young bands and credential-toting music industry people that begins on Tuesday and runs through Nov. 4. In addition to daytime panels and workshops, the marathon this year includes some 1,000 bands playing at more than 50 performance spaces. And those are only the official gigs: to maximize exposure and schmoozing opportunities, ambitious bands often book another three or four shows at late-night parties and afternoon barbecues. (They're not as exclusive as they sound: wait outside a band's sold-out show and you're likely to hear where it's playing next.)
 Though the names of a few clubs disappear from the CMJ calendar each year, new ones always pop up, more often than not in a cleverly reconfigured space -- a basement, a backroom, a warehouse -- that was never intended for live music. Typical of this is Cake Shop, a narrow storefront that opened 18 months ago on Ludlow Street, the center of the Lower East Side bar zone. Upstairs is a quaint counter where cookies, cupcakes and coffee are sold, and in the back is a small record store. But downstairs is a sweaty, noisy boite, with a full bar and indie-rock shows almost every night of the week.
 ''Just when you think there's nowhere else to do anything,'' said Matt McDonald, CMJ's showcase director, who has booked four nights of music at Cake Shop, ''there's some new place on the Lower East Side.''
 They're not all tiny basements, either. Some of the clubs new to CMJ this year include Fontana's, a surprisingly cavernous room on Eldridge Street that opened last December with a full roster of -- what else? -- indie rock; Studio B, a disco-ball-and-smoke-machines former Polish nightclub in Greenpoint that opened in July and quickly established itself as one of the city's premier dance and D.J. spaces; Union Hall, a Park Slope bar with a tweedy library decor and, somewhat incongruously, bocce ball courts upstairs, as well as a comfortable band area in the basement; and Rebel, a new 325-capacity club on West 30th Street in Manhattan with bare stone walls and a powerful sound system that will make it a home for big, bad rock. 
 Rebel, which opened three weeks ago with a show by the avant-metal band Isis, is also one move in a developing chess game between the city's two competing club empires: the giant promoter Live Nation and the owners of the Mercury Lounge on Houston Street and the Bowery Ballroom on Delancey.
 Two years ago the Mercury-Bowery group created a new company, The Bowery Presents, to present concerts at bigger spaces, including Webster Hall in the East Village, one of the biggest clubs in the city, and established a vertical-integration booking model: bands can be sent up the chain, from the 250-capacity Mercury to the 575-person Bowery to Webster Hall, at 1,400. To match this system and compete for acts, Live Nation -- which operates Irving Plaza and Roseland in Manhattan -- plans to book shows at Rebel and two other new, smallish clubs.
 Besides Rebel, which is at the site formerly occupied by a musky dive called Downtime but greatly enlarged and reconfigured, Live Nation also plans to start presenting concerts in January at the former Gramercy Theater on East 23rd Street, which will hold about 600. It will also have a hand in booking the new Luna Lounge, reopening by the end of the year in Williamsburg at 300 to 350 capacity, more than double its former size on Ludlow Street, where it closed last year.
 ''We also want to say that we want to develop artists at that size,'' said Sam Kinken, who books shows throughout New York for Live Nation.
 To develop the Gramercy into a rock hall, Live Nation is removing the seats on the floor, redesigning the downstairs to accommodate three dressing rooms and a large bar area and converting the projection room into a studio for audio and video recording, Mr. Kinken said on a tour of the theater this week.
 The Mercury-Bowery organization is also expanding. Its owners have acquired the lease for Northsix, a sizable club in Williamsburg that was a pioneer in the area when it opened in 2001. It will be renovated, with upstairs balconies added, and is to open in the spring as the Music Hall of Williamsburg.
 ''We want to treat it as a special little gem, as we do the Bowery Ballroom,'' said Michael Swier, one of the owners.
 Another new Lower East Side club on the horizon is the Box, a 5,000-square-foot room on Christie Street whose owner, Simon Hammerstein -- a grandson of Oscar -- said he intended to open in the next two months with theater and music performances. Booking agents say it will be a likely competitor to Joe's Pub, the stylish cabaret at the Public Theater.
 There are no reliable statistics about the flux of the quantity of clubs over the years, but in general the ashes-to-ashes principle applies: when one closes, another opens. The biggest growth area is Brooklyn, which had few major clubs before Northsix planted its stake. Since then it has developed into a world that almost rivals Manhattan, with enough spaces -- from tiny rooms like Pete's Candy Store and Barbes to roomier places like Southpaw and Galapagos Art Space -- to accommodate a range of acts and audiences. 
 One promoter, Todd Patrick, a k a Todd P., has built a devoted underground following by mostly avoiding the clubs and putting on must-see shows in galleries, warehouses and vacant lots. 
 ''People always move to New York and say, 'I wish I had been there for something like CB's was in 1976, or the Factory in '66, or whatever,' '' he said. ''I hope that what I do is a part of something like that as well -- that the people and the places I work with now make a scene that people will look back on in 20 years and wish they had been part of.''
 Location counts. When Rob Sacher, an owner of the Luna Lounge, was considering where to move, he read the surveys his customers had filled out at his old Lower East Side club.
 ''Seventy percent of them lived in Williamsburg,'' he said. ''And I just thought, 'Why am I swimming upstream?' Seventy percent of the market is already in a neighborhood that I can afford.''

Bands on the Marathon Run

About 1,000 bands will be playing at this year's CMJ Music Marathon, which begins Tuesday, most of them hoping that their shows will entice the hype network of bloggers, journalists, record labels, radio stations and fans. Here are some groups lucky enough to have attracted that attention even before they arrive. Information and full schedule: cmj.com.

TUESDAY

LUMINESCENT ORCHESTRII, Mo Pitkin's. Rock tinged with traditional Eastern European and Gypsy music has been one of the most fruitful trends among New York bands in ages, and this is one of the most ambitious.

WEDNESDAY

THE KNIFE, Webster Hall. It's the year of Scandinavian retro electronica: This Swedish group, making its New York debut, plays bouncy, minimalist synthesizer grooves with slightly creepy, Bjorkesque vocals.

GIRL TALK, FIGURINES, MOBIUS BAND, Mercury Lounge. Girl Talk is a Philadelphia musician named Gregg Gillis who makes short-attention-span dance-pop by stitching together brief samples from hit songs. Figurines, from Copenhagen, plays meat-and-potatoes alt-rock in the Modest Mouse vein, and Mobius Band, from New York, links lattices of guitar with wistful vocals and electronics.

THURSDAY

SHINS, Bowery Ballroom. Every CMJ marathon needs at least one band to return as an example of the success that a struggling band can aspire to. The Shins, who conquered indiedom a few years ago with reflective, semiacoustic rhapsodies, fulfills that role with a preview of their third album.

120 DAYS, Sin-e. The other big electro-pop arrival from Scandinavia is this Norwegian group, which adds a sexy rock 'n' roll thrust to the perpetual-motion techno of Kraftwerk and Giorgio Moroder.

NEXT FRIDAY

ALBERT HAMMOND JR., TOKYO POLICE CLUB, CLOUD CULT, Mercury Lounge. Mr. Hammond, one of the guitarists in the Strokes, plays from his recent solo album. The Canadian band Tokyo Police Club has a rowdy, scrappy take on the Strokes' style, and bloggers have approved. Cloud Cult, from Minneapolis, is known as much for its Shins-like songs as for environmentally conscious efforts like reusing CD jewel cases.

NOV. 4

THE CLIPSE, Knitting Factory. This Virginia rap duo, which disappeared into the underground after scoring two Top 40 hits four years ago, returns with a long-awaited new album. BEN SISARIO


CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Schedule information in Weekend on Friday about some of the acts playing at the CMJ Music Marathon in New York misidentified the hometown of Gregg Gillis, a musician who calls himself Girl Talk. It is Pittsburgh, not Philadelphia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Jeff Lewis, flanked by Chriss Sutherland and Seth Faergolzia, at Pete's Candy Store, one of the many places to see rock music in the post-CBGB era. Below, a typical suggestion from a bar's management. (Photos by above, Shannon Greer for The New York Times
below, Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 A performance by Cages downstairs at Northsix, in Brooklyn. The club is to be renovated, then renamed the Music Hall of Williamsburg. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. E28)Chart/Map: ''A Sprawling Scene For New York Rock''The club scene in New York is alive and well. Here is a sampling of new and noteworthy rock clubs in Manhattan and Brooklyn.Rebel251 West 30th Street(212) 695-2747rebelnyc.comWebster Hall125 East 11th Street(212) 353-1600bowerypresents.comThe Box189 Chrystie Streettheboxnyc.com(212) 982-9301Bowery Ballroom6 Delancey Street(212) 533-2111boweryballroom.comFontana's105 Eldridge Street(212) 334-6740fontanasnyc.comGramercy127 East 23rd StreetOpening in JanuaryIrving Plaza17 Irving Place(212) 777-6800irvingplaza.comRockwood Music Hall196 Allen Street(212) 477-4155rockwoodmusichall .comMercury Lounge217 East Houston Street(212) 260-4700mercuryloungenyc.comCake Shop152 Ludlow Street(212) 253-0036cake-shop.comStudio B259 Banker Street(718) 389-1880clubstudiob.comNorthsix66 North Sixth Street(718) 599-5103northsix.comPete's Candy Store709 Lorimer Street(718) 302-3770petescandystore.comLuna Lounge361 Metropolitan AvenueOpening soonGalapagos Art Space70 North Sixth Street(718) 782-5188galapagosartspace.comSouthpaw125 Fifth Avenue(718) 230-0236spsounds.comUnion Hall702 Union Street(718) 638-4400unionhallny.comMap of Manhattan and Brooklyn highlighting clubs listed above. (pg. E28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); RETAILERS (64%) Nightclubs and Cabarets; Shutdowns (Institutional); Music

ORGANIZATION: Cbgb (NYC Nightclub)

PERSON: Ben Sisario

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



633 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Prices Fall Sharply 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Home builders, struggling to keep ahead in a weakening market, cut prices and offered a variety of other discounts in September to help sell their newly constructed houses, the latest government and industry statistics show.
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the median price of a new home plunged 9.7 percent last month, compared with September 2005, falling to $217,100, the biggest such drop since December 1970.
Statistics from the National Association of Home Builders showed a similar slide. Builders reported cutting prices in September by 5 percent, according to the association's most recent data. 
 Just two months ago, prices of new homes were still on the rise.
 At least to some extent, the lower prices achieved the developers' goal: the backlog of unsold new homes on the market fell in September for the second consecutive month, while the number sold, adjusted for normal seasonal variations, rose by 5.3 percent from the previous month.
 But economists and industry experts noted that the reported numbers provide a somewhat distorted picture of market reality. While they seemed to suggest a rebound in sales and a precipitous drop in prices, the data was skewed by a higher number of sales in the South, where homes are cheaper, and fewer in the more expensive Northeast.
 Last month, sales in the South accounted for 56 percent of all new homes sold in the country, compared with 52 percent a year earlier. The average square footage of a house sold in September declined as well, pulling down the median price.
 While new-home prices across the country may not be falling quite as sharply as the reported numbers suggest, builders are also offering a variety of hidden price cuts in response to the much harsher housing climate that they now face.
 ''We're going to run our business as if it's going to stay tough for a while,'' said Richard J. Dugas Jr., chief executive of Pulte Homes, one of the nation's largest residential builders. On Wednesday, Pulte said its profit in the third quarter fell by more than half, compared with the same period a year earlier.
 Indeed, profits are falling fast in many parts of the country for builders, who are rapidly scaling back on their future construction plans. 
 The home builders' association reported that 45 percent of builders and developers said they cut prices in September to maintain sales volume. That was up from only 19 percent a year earlier. Similarly, the association reported that 55 percent offered amenities like granite counters or upgraded kitchen cabinets for no additional cost. Only 19 percent did so a year earlier.
 The cost of those incentives was not reflected in the new-home price data, which suggested that builders were making even less money from each sale than the shrinking official prices would indicate.
 ''Builders do not like to lower prices because it sends the wrong signal to potential buyers,'' Patrick Newport, an economist with Global Insight, said in a research note. ''How much incentives matter today is difficult to gauge -- but in markets in which power is quickly shifting from sellers to buyers, they probably matter quite a bit.''
 Cancellations were also left out of the new-home statistics. The Commerce Department records a new home as sold when the buyer and builder sign a contract. The home builders association said that cancellations had jumped by 50 percent in the last year.
 ''The cancellation rate is really big,'' said Dave Seiders, chief economist of the association. ''It's exploded over the last year.''
 The new-home sales report followed a report that showed softness in the market for previously owned homes, which account for about 85 percent of all home sales.
 The pace of existing-home sales in September slowed 14 percent from a year earlier to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.2 million. That was the lowest rate reported since January 2004.
 For new homes, the seasonally adjusted annual sales volume figure in September was 1.1 million -- 14.2 percent lower than in September 2005.
 Another closely watched economic barometer released this morning -- the Census Bureau's report on durable goods orders -- showed an unexpected 7.8 percent rise for September from August. Durable goods, which include things like dishwashers, are monitored by economists as a gauge of business investment.
 The upswing, however, was almost entirely a result of a surge in orders for aircraft. Boeing took orders for 175 planes last month, nearly tripling the nonmilitary aircraft component of the durable goods figure.
 Over all, the latest economic data pointed to continued but slower growth through the end of the summer. When orders for the transportation equipment sector were stripped out, the gain in durable goods orders was only 0.1 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A California real estate agent showed a new home to Carol Uyeno, right. Builders have been adding upgrades free as incentives. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)(pg. C8)Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: +5.3%Aug.: +3.8July: -8.7(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); AIRLINES (74%); CENSUS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Economic Conditions and Trends; Airlines and Airplanes; Housing; United States Economy; Housing

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Commerce Department; National Assn of Home Builders; Census Bureau

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD J DUGAS JR (50%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Southern States (US); Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



634 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Rigs on the Skyline and Gas Far Below; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Drilling Boom and Dreams of Riches Go Door-to-Door in Fort Worth

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
Boston had the Big Dig. Now Fort Worth has the big drill.
 Under golf courses, schools, parks, libraries, airports and dozens of neighborhoods, some of the nation's leading independent energy companies are scouring the city in search of the best locations to recover one of the largest concentrations of natural gas in the United States.
Everyone seems to be lining up for a share in the bonanza. The American Cancer Society recently made $5 million just by selling its mineral rights to land that had been donated years ago. The Girl Scouts leased their mineral rights for drilling under a summer camp for an undisclosed amount.
 It may not be a rerun of ''The Beverly Hillbillies.'' And energy executives say it will not tear up the heart of the city, as Boston's trouble-plagued highway construction project did. 
 But it is a replay of sorts of the oil drilling booms that roused and remade Los Angeles and Oklahoma City in the 1920's and 1930's. And with rigs lighted up like Christmas trees on the city's periphery at night, it is the biggest urban drilling boom in the nation today. 
 The surging interest in tapping gas trapped in the so-called Barnett Shale that veins through Fort Worth is only the beginning of a new far-flung search by wildcatters now exploring Alabama, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Texas for a big new source of shale natural gas.
 The new drilling wave comes not only at a time when domestic gas production has stalled and demand for cleaner gas energy is increasing, but when new drilling technologies and relatively high gas prices make the exploitation of shale economically feasible for the first time.
 Not everybody in Fort Worth is happy about the prospect of all this drilling. But this time the advances in exploration technologies mean that most residents are not going to hear, smell or even see the drilling under their land.
 That is because the holes are dug as much as a mile away, and the drills, thousands of feet down, reach out horizontally -- not straight down -- to the shale gas underneath the city. Only a few people are actually going to get rich, but there will be a lot of money floating around. 
 ''It's manna from heaven!'' said Bishop Kenneth B. Spears of the First St. John Baptist Church, whose predominantly black neighborhood in southeast Fort Worth suddenly finds itself in the middle of one very big energy play.
 Still, some in the neighborhood fear potential accidents, while others are suspicious of the motives of rich energy companies.
 For all his enthusiasm, Bishop Spears, who recently received a $21,000 signing bonus to allow Dale Resources to drill for natural gas in the underground shale directly beneath his church, acknowledges the mixed feelings. He promises to use any new church riches to start a fund that will help people get out of debt and start businesses in the neighborhood.
 He also leads a Y.M.C.A. across the street, which got an even fatter check, and Dale money is going to fix up a baseball field down the block as a good will gesture to the neighborhood.
 In a recent sermon, Bishop Spears compared Dale's payments to the gifts given by Joseph to his brethren in the Old Testament. ''I got a lot of 'amens' and 'hallelujahs', but there was also a loud 'hmm,' '' he recalled in an interview. ''It's just not every day a white guy comes up and wants to give any black a check. People are concerned that 'someone is going to come and take what I own.' ''
 The big ''hmm'' reflects an anxiety in Fort Worth neighborhoods of all races that drilling could bring some kind of explosion or accident that could ruin drinking water. Trucks carrying water to the rigs could disrupt sleep, many fear, and some claim the companies are not paying residents fairly.
 Fears grew when a gas well explosion in April killed a drilling company employee in Forest Hill, a suburb. Several other suburban neighborhoods are upset over new wells appearing almost in their backyards and that concern has spread to urban communities.
 One neighborhood association in Morningside Park, another black neighborhood, has rejected all drilling under a three-block area. So far the organized opposition has been small, but some politicians and activists predict protests may pick up as drilling in the center of the city becomes more intense.
 ''Money isn't everything,'' said Paul Moss, 62, an aluminum factory supervisor who lives in Morningside Park. ''Peace of mind is better than money.''
 But the anxiety is joined by an equally, if not more powerful money-loving giddiness from the drilling boom that has hit this sprawling city of 700,000, which often lives in the shadow of nearby Dallas.
 ''If you don't have a gas well, get one!'' exclaims a yellow billboard along a Fort Worth stretch of Interstate 30. Residents are receiving fliers offering them $200 and $300 bonuses and promises of royalties for years to come if they allow energy companies to drill several thousand feet under their homes. 
 The city's gas riches are ''not only going to benefit this generation but generations to come,'' said the mayor, Mike Moncrief, who happens to come from a family of traditional wildcatters. ''It is without question allowing us to float everyone's boat higher.'' 
 He said the city government had received $10.4 million in bonuses and royalties from 613 wells in various stages of development around the city, just in the last year or so. And ''we've only just started,'' he said. 
 The Barnett Shale gas field was discovered in 1981 and stretches over 15 North Texas counties. Its 5,000-square-mile reservoir is already the second-largest-producing land-based domestic natural gas field after the San Juan Basin in New Mexico and Colorado. 
 The first drill in Fort Worth came online in July 2005, and the city has leased more than 2,400 public acres alone for natural gas development.
 The changes are unsettling to some. ''I love prairies and I hate to see them gobbled up by development and gas drilling,'' said Don Young, a local activist. ''There's a big dark secret nobody's talking about: Real estate will go down the tubes and there will be an environmental impact.''
 The United States Geological Survey now estimates that the entire Barnett Shale field contains 27 trillion cubic feet of gas, about what the nation consumes in 15 months. Recent studies suggest the core of the shale field may rest precisely beneath the city's high-rise banks, trendy restaurants and some black neighborhoods that have never benefited from oil and gas before.
 Estimates of the size of Barnett Shale's reserves are rapidly increasing; the field is starting to make a big impact on the nation's gas business at a time of declining domestic production and projections of rising demand. Gas executives predict that the current production of 1.5 billion cubic feet a day -- 2.5 percent of the national output -- has the potential to climb to 3 billion to 4 billion cubic feet a day in a few years.
 ''It is providing security to the national energy picture,'' said Stephen J. Hadden, senior vice president for exploration and production at Devon Energy, the biggest driller in the Barnett Shale field. This North Texas gas, he said, ''will mitigate to a degree some of the decline we see coming from the more mature gas resources around the country. It may temper prices.''
 The reserves of natural gas are caught in the cracks and crevices of an underground shale structure that runs as deep as 7,000 feet. They were generally inaccessible until a new process developed in the 1990's and known as hydraulic fracturing or simply fraccing allowed drilling companies to use high-pressure blasts of water and sand to release the gas.
 And the advent of horizontal drilling allows producers to build drilling pods from which mile-long spokes of pipes spread thousands of feet under residential neighborhoods.
 The early successes have led drilling companies to start exploiting other shale fields around the country.
 Companies had been reluctant to drill inside Fort Worth's central city. The technical and political challenges of exploring in an urban area were large. But Lawrence B. Dale, president of Dale Resources, a small independent drilling company in Dallas, decided to take a chance.
 With 23 years of exploring widely for natural gas, Mr. Dale, now 53, said that he had decided to spend more time with his family and drill closer to home. 
 Three years ago, he began selling off his East Texas production wells. He then leased about 90 sites around Fort Worth where drilling would stir less of a protest: areas in or abutting industrial zones close to pipelines.
 ''It was completely a wildcat venture,'' he said, noting that seismic work could not be done under a dense urban area. ''We didn't know. We thought, but we didn't know.''
 Mr. Dale's company has already invested $100 million in the field, but he said he realized that it would take much deeper pockets than he had to develop the city's gas potential fully.
 Having already sold some wells to Chesapeake Energy, a bigger gas company, he said that in the future ''we will enter into strategic alliances and partial property sales with larger companies that have the capital, the equipment and the balance sheet to develop a major field like this.''
 Mr. Dale was quick to locate and buy up most of the good drilling sites -- those that are relatively unobtrusive to gas-rich neighborhoods but in easy reach of them. 
 Mr. Dale said he was well aware of local concerns, and was working to address them. His company constructs high berms and sound blankets and develops green spaces around rig sites to ameliorate disturbances. Signs are put up in affected neighborhoods with the phone number of his director of community affairs who is available to answer questions, listen to complaints and even make house calls any hour of the day or night.
 ''I sleep in my cowboy boots,'' joked David Buchanan, Dale's director of community affairs.
 Most neighborhoods appear ready to go along. The City Council recently tried to calm concerns by setting minimum distances between wells and existing residences and stiffened rules over hours of operation and noise.
 But the jitters persist.
 People became alarmed a few weeks ago when signs went up in the small central city black neighborhood of Greenway Place stating that Dale would soon establish a rig site on the other side of a local park. Most had already signed up to have drilling done under their homes from a separate rig, but they did not like the surprise.
 Dale sponsored a barbecue to explain.
 ''I can barbecue at home,'' said the Rev. Raymond Oliver of the Progressive Missionary Baptist Church, who had been an early supporter of Dale's efforts before the new signs went up. ''You telling me we don't get paid for a well on my front door and we don't get royalties? I got a problem about that.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about drilling for natural gas in Fort Worth misstated the number of wells on public property for which the city receives royalties and bonuses totaling $10.4 million. It is 18 wells -- not 613, which is the total number of wells in development around Fort Worth.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Barnett Shale gas field was discovered in 1981 and stretches over 15 North Texas counties, roughly centered on Fort Worth. (Photo by Mike Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Three years ago, Lawrence B. Dale, president of a small drilling company, began leasing about 90 sites around Fort Worth for natural gas wells.
A natural gas well in Fort Worth. New technology allows energy companies to drill horizontally deep underground in heavily settled areas.
 Bishop Kenneth B. Spears of the First St. John Baptist Church will use a $21,000 payment for drilling rights to help people start businesses. (Photographs by Mike Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Fort Worth, Texas, highlighting natural gas fields. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); GOLF (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MINERAL LEASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (53%); CHRISTMAS (52%) Gas (Fuel); Natural Resources; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel); Gas (Fuel)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (83%) American Cancer Society; Girl Scouts; Dale Resources; Devon Energy Corp

PERSON: Lawrence B Dale; Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Fort Worth (Tex); Alabama; Illinois; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



635 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Terms Approved for Vietnam's Admission to W.T.O.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Trade negotiators who were gathered in Geneva on Thursday approved the terms of Vietnam's admission to the World Trade Organization. But the biggest winners from its prospective entry will probably be European and other Asian businesses, not American. 
 Companies around the world have been scrutinizing the rapid opening of Vietnam's markets. And this agreement, which is expected to receive final approval by the organization's 149 member countries on Nov. 7, paves the way for a long list of changes aimed at transforming the Vietnamese economy. 
The United States and other trading powers have driven a tough deal with Vietnam -- certainly tougher than in China's agreement to join the W.T.O. in 2001. So the changes in Vietnam are likely to be significant. 
 The deal concluded on Thursday requires Vietnam to reduce or repeal many import duties, eliminate a long list of textile-industry subsidies and allow foreign banks to incorporate wholly owned subsidiaries in Vietnam, beginning on April 1. 
 Vietnam has some of the world's highest tariffs now -- 90 percent on imported cars, 100 percent on whiskey and brandy. In return, quotas on Vietnam's garment exports will be lifted and, like other members, the Vietnamese will have the right to challenge other countries' trade barriers before W.T.O. tribunals in Geneva.
 Vietnamese admission would leave Russia, Iran and Ukraine as the biggest countries that have not yet joined the W.T.O.
 Among international companies, the experience of Prudential P.L.C. of Britain is what they dream of emulating. Eight years after receiving the first license for a foreign company to offer life insurance in Vietnam since the end of its war, Prudential has captured 41 percent of the life insurance market. That compares with 38 percent for Bao Viet, the state-owned life insurer, 11 percent for Manulife of Toronto and smaller shares for other companies. 
 The British Prudential has made large profits by investing insurance premiums in local stock markets, up more than 70 percent this year, and in the soaring real estate market and government bonds, which pay interest rates well above Vietnam's 7 percent inflation rate.
 With strong ties to provincial and central government officials, Prudential has now received the first license for a foreign company to offer a broad array of loans, including mortgages and consumer loans -- giving it an early edge against foreign banks that hope to get into the Vietnamese market next year.
 ''It's the first-mover advantage,'' said Charlie E. Oropeza, chief executive of Vietnam operations for Prudential P.L.C., which has no connection to Prudential Financial of Newark. 
 European and Asian companies have similar leads in other markets, even as the United States imports nearly $9 in goods from Vietnam for every $1 of goods it sells here. Groupe Lafarge of France, the world's largest cement producer, has built a large, modern cement-grinding operation on the Saigon River near the renamed Ho Chi Minh City. 
 Metro of Germany dominates retailing with a chain of eight Costco-like warehouse outlets that sell to mom-and-pop stores across the country. But Warren Hodder, Metro's director of nonfood purchasing and merchandising in Vietnam, said that no American company had called upon him to sell its goods in his stores, although delegations for American beef and Washington State apples came in with sales pitches. 
 American companies have been slow to move, partly because of the memory of the Vietnam War. The United States did not lift its embargo on trade with Vietnam until 1994, and did not establish formal trade relations until the end of 2001.
 So American companies now rank ninth in foreign investment in Vietnam, with just a quarter of the approved investment from Taiwan or Singapore.
 There could be another delay for Americans in coming months. Congress is scheduled to vote in mid-November on whether to grant permanent status to the current, but temporary, normal trade relations with Vietnam. If the measure fails, Vietnam would still be able to join the W.T.O., but W.T.O. rules would not apply to trade with the United States.
 What Vietnam really wants from the United States is high technology, including nuclear power plant technology. But Vietnam, like China, is restricted by American limits on the export of military-related technology. 
 Vietnamese officials insist that any attempt to develop nuclear power is related to energy security rather than weapons. France, South Korea and Russia have each been lobbying hard for Vietnam to buy their nuclear technology, but American companies and government officials have been silent, said Le Dang Doanh, a senior economic policy adviser to the government here.
 ''Vietnam is very interested to increase imports from the United States,'' Mr. Doanh said, adding that the terms of trade in general favor the United States. ''How many T-shirts must Vietnam export to buy a Boeing?'' 
 Some of the biggest changes under W.T.O. membership will start coming next April 1. That is the date when Vietnam has agreed to allow foreign banks to set up 100 percent foreign-owned subsidiaries. 
 With nearly double-digit economic growth and just 6 million bank accounts among 84 million people, Vietnam is one of the world's great untapped banking markets. Houses are commonly bought and sold with briefcases stuffed with cash. Mr. Doanh said, however, that while the banking industry might soon flourish, no foreign bank was likely to replicate Prudential's success in life insurance. 
 The brokerage industry is also attracting foreign interest. Foreign investors can currently set up brokerage accounts in Vietnam to buy and sell stocks. But there are strict rules to prevent this money from being diverted into other activities, like real estate purchases.
 Vietnam's two stock exchanges, one in Ho Chi Minh City and a much smaller one in Hanoi, experienced feverish trading this year. Their combined index more than doubled from the start of the year until April 25, before sliding back somewhat since.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Under an international agreement reached yesterday, quotas for Vietnamese garment producers, like the Viet Tien Export and Import Company in Ho Chi Minh City, will be lifted once the nation enters the W.T.O. (Photo by Chau Doan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (79%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INFLATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BONDS (74%); TEXTILES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); APPAREL MFG (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Textiles; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL PLC (84%); LAFARGE SA (80%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (84%); PRU (LSE) (84%); K6S (SGX) (84%); 2378 (HKSE) (84%); LG (PAR) (80%); PRU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS327420 GYPSUM PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (80%); NAICS212311 DIMENSION STONE MINING & QUARRYING (80%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (80%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%) ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UKRAINE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); VIETNAM (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (53%) Vietnam; Russia; Iran; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



636 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: October Bull Run Continues as Nasdaq Hits 5-Year High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks extended their rally yesterday, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index toward its best month since 2003, as lower oil prices improved the outlook for companies sensitive to consumer spending.
 Comcast, the cable operator, helped the Nasdaq composite index reach a five-year high as profit surpassed analysts' forecasts.
 Aetna, the health insurer, had its biggest gain in four years after raising its full-year earnings forecast. 
 ''With energy prices coming back down, you've seen a change in the mentality of investors,'' said Jason Cooper, who helps manage $2.5 billion at 1st Source Investment Advisors in South Bend, Ind. ''People are starting to put money into these markets.''
 The S.& P. 500 rose 6.86 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,389.08. The index has risen 4 percent in October, which would be the biggest monthly gain since December 2003.
 Media and telephone stocks, buoyed by the earnings at Comcast, led the market's gains. 
 Clear Channel Communications, the radio broadcaster, rose after it said it might put itself up for sale. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average increased 28.98 points, or 0.24 percent, to 12,163.66, reaching a fourth consecutive record even as Boeing and General Motors fell. 
 The Nasdaq advanced to a five-year high, rising 22.51 points, or 1 percent, to 2,379.10, a level not seen since February 2001.
 As of Wednesday, with about half the companies in the S.& P. 500 reporting earnings, 73 percent have posted profits that exceeded analyst forecasts, while 12.5 percent reported results that trailed estimates.
 Stocks fell early in the session yesterday on a report that showed durable goods orders excluding transportation rose 0.1 percent in September, less than forecast. Economists expected a 1 percent gain.
 Total orders rose last month by the most in more than six years on demand for commercial aircraft and business equipment, the Commerce Department said. The 7.8 percent jump was almost four times the estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Other Commerce Department data showed the median price of a new home dropped 9.7 percent from a year earlier and new purchases rose 5.3 percent, to an annual pace of 1.075 million.
 Initial jobless claims climbed 8,000, to 308,000, in the week ended last Saturday, the Labor Department said.
 The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure, fell to 305,250, the lowest in eight months, from 308,000.
 Comcast climbed $1.24, to $40. Third-quarter profit excluding gains related to its purchase of Adelphia was 26 cents a share. That beat the 19-cent average analyst estimate from Thomson Financial. Comcast added more new phone, digital-TV and high-speed Internet customers than analysts had predicted.
 Lower oil prices helped drive gains in stocks. The December contract for crude oil fell 1.7 percent, to $60.36 a barrel, in New York on speculation that American stockpiles are adequate to meet demand in the coming weeks.
 Exxon Mobil rose 61 cents, to $71.62. Third-quarter net income was $1.77 a share, beating the average estimate of $1.59, as oil prices reached a record last quarter.
 Clear Channel rose $3.13, to $35.48, after the company said it was considering a possible sale.
 Sprint added $1.18, to $18.90. The company said it lost 188,000 customers with monthly contracts, fewer than was expected by some analysts.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 11/32, to a price of to 10 17/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.72 percent from 4.76 percent. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes:



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	Price	99.695	High Yield	4.694	Low Yield	4.620	Median Yield	4.670	Total applied for	$31,861,005	Accepted	$16,180,600	Noncompetitive	$132,403	Interest set at	4 5/8	The five-year notes mature Oct. 31, 2011.	 	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Government Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); BOEING CO (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (56%) INDIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



637 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Law Firms Are Starting To Adopt Outsourcing

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
For years, outsourcing has been a dirty word inside the world of white-shoe law firms.
 While certain law firms hired companies to handle travel or records storage, most drew the line at sending client billing or confidential documents out of their offices, let alone out of the country.
A number of large law firms, though, are starting to tiptoe onto far-flung shores. 
 The latest is Clifford Chance, one of the largest law firms in the world with 29 offices in 20 countries, which will announce plans today to consolidate and move big chunks of its administrative functions like accounting and technological support to an operation in Delhi, India, by next spring.
 The shift to India could eventually result in up to $18 million a year in savings, the law firm estimates.
 While corporate America has embraced sending clerical, customer and technical support functions overseas, law firms have been much more reluctant to do so. Their chief concern is that confidential client documents or information could be leaked, stolen or simply lost.
 But in the race to offer large global corporate clients like I.B.M. or the Gap around-the-clock attention and legal advice, many law firms are opening up satellite offices all over the world.
 While good for the clients, the costs of operating dozens of offices across the globe leave law firms aghast. Therefore, some are looking at ways to centralize many back-office functions but also to move them out of high-cost cities like New York and London and into either lower-cost regions of the United States or abroad to places like India.
 ''The fully loaded cost for a clerical person in a major metropolitan area can run $85,000 to $100,000 a year,'' said Mark Santiago, chief executive of International CoSourcing Group, a management consultant for law firms. ''If you multiply that by 70 or 100 people, you have a major cost center, and law firms are being put under great pressure from corporations to reduce their bills.''
 Despite the attractive economics, a mere trickle of law firms have actually moved operations out of their headquarters or to overseas locations. Yet some are betting that law will be the next industry to shift parts of its operations to lower-cost regions of the world.
 ''We think legal is going to be our biggest market going forward,'' said Liam Brown, the president and chief executive of Integreon Managed Solutions, an outsourcing firm that is building the center that Clifford Chance will use in India. 
 About six years ago, a rival to Clifford Chance, Baker & McKenzie, opened an office in the Philippines to do word processing for offices in the Asia Pacific region. Today, that office, with Baker & McKenzie employees as its staff, creates spreadsheets and PowerPoint presentations; monitors the firms' entire computer network; and handles about 40 percent of the financial work for the Pacific region, including client billing.
 ''We have a lot of small offices, and they can't have 24-hour word-processing support or somebody who is going to make them a high-quality Power Point presentation,'' said Craig Courter, chief operating officer with Baker & McKenzie.
 Clifford Chance is following a similar model with its move to India. It will be the anchor client for a 45,000-square-foot operation being built by Integreon. Integreon will manage the center, but Clifford Chance will oversee the employees.
 Clifford hired Integreon about two years ago to handle some of its word-processing functions. This step will involve moving certain accounting activities, like accounts payable, and technical support functions to the Indian site, said Amanda Burton, the director of global business services for Clifford Chance. Ms. Burton said client billing would not be done in the overseas office, at least for now.
 ''Nothing is in the 'do not touch' basket,'' Ms. Burton said. ''We just have to make sure that what we do initially works.''
 Many other law firms are taking a similar baby-step approach to sending work overseas.
 About a year ago when White & Case, another law firm, considered hiring an outside company in India to handle word-processing activities, it wanted to make sure documents going over its computer network could not be intercepted or that individuals working in India could not print out the documents or take them home.
 And while Richard McKenna, the chief administrative officer for White & Case, said he had been happy with the work the outside firm had done and that some marketing functions had now also been moved overseas, he had concerns about sending other documents too far from home.
 ''We do continue to look at outsourcing as a way to improve efficiencies and manage infrastructure costs, but it's not a quick decision that we would make,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CITIES (64%) Legal Profession; Labor; Finances; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CLIFFORD CHANCE LLP (92%); INTEGREON MANAGED SOLUTIONS INC (84%); BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Clifford Chance

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (84%); NAICS561410 DOCUMENT PREPARATION SERVICES (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%) New Delhi (India); India

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



638 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Adirondacks Are Hot. That's Good. Or Maybe Not. 

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: TUPPER LAKE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Those who love the Adirondacks most are worried they are being loved too much. 
 Personal watercraft, all-terrain vehicles and snowmobiles shatter the stillness, from one season to the next. Nearly twice as many building permits were issued last year as in 1998, while home prices in some areas have doubled in less than three years. Two major development proposals that would resurrect defunct ski areas, one here and another in North Creek, could create a total of more than 1,000 units of housing and several hotels in what Peter Bauer, a leading environmentalist, described as ''an unprecedented building boom.''
The Adirondack Park, an unusual mix of state-owned forest preserve and private land that is roughly the size of Vermont, has fallen in and out of favor for decades. Once a playground for the Vanderbilts, Rockefellers and Whitneys, who erected fabulous great camps at the turn of the last century, the park has been alternately viewed as a stunning refuge from overhyped second-home resorts and a remote backwater with black flies and bad food. 
 It has been more than a century since New York State created Adirondack Park, an expanse of rugged mountains and lakes that was, from the beginning, recognized for its magnificent scenery. The philosopher William James wrote to his brother, Henry, the novelist, that the ''sylvan beauty'' was ''probably unlike aught that Europe has to show.''
 Today, the park is clearly back in vogue, as shown by a spate of home building and boutiques peddling twig furnishings. While local officials embrace the boom for its anticipated tax windfall, environmental groups and others are anxious that New York's great wilderness is becoming overdeveloped. 
 ''In other parts of the country where they have 1,000-unit subdivisions, this may not seem like a big deal,'' said Mr. Bauer, executive director of the Residents' Committee to Protect the Adirondacks, an environmental group. ''But that's not what the park is all about. It's about big, continuous, forested, wild, open spaces.'' 
 Michael D. Foxman, the lead developer of one of the two developments causing concern, the Adirondack Club and Resort here, said he was trying to ensure that it fits in. Almost 2,000 acres of the 6,300-acre site would be left untouched, he promised, and the ski lodge, town houses and other buildings would all be in the popular rustic lodge style. 
 ''We're trying to do everything on a human scale,'' Mr. Foxman said. ''All of our structures will be classic Adirondack architecture with twig work and half logs and whole logs. We're trying to recreate the great-camp feeling in the Adirondacks.''
 Critics argue that the land-use plan put in place by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in the early 1970s is ill-equipped to preserve the wilderness. After studying the zoning densities permitted under the plan, the Residents' Committee found that it would allow 325,000 new structures to be added now to the park's current 88,000 buildings, most of which are single-family homes.
 The Tupper Lake proposal is the largest ever to be considered by the Adirondack Park Agency, a kind of park zoning board. Under the plan, developers would erect hundreds of houses and carve out two dozen estates, averaging 90 acres each, on former timberlands, a departure from past development, which was mostly along lakeshores and roadsides.
 Apart from the designs of developers, individual home buyers are changing the face of the park on their own. 
 Local officials and business owners noticed a surge of interest after the terror attacks of Sept. 11. ''It was instantaneous,'' said Jeanne Ashworth, supervisor of the town of Wilmington, 35 miles from here. ''Within six months, we saw people moving here, looking for a safer place.'' 
 Last year, Wilmington, population 1,131, saw the construction of 24 new homes; Ms. Ashworth believes it was the most in a single year since the town was established in 1911, and up from about four or five a year before 2001. In the nearby town of Jay, population 2,300, officials said most of the newcomers were young families and retirees living there year-round, not second-home owners. 
 ''We probably had 40 to 50 brand-new houses built last year,'' said the town supervisor, Randall T. Douglas. ''In 2000, we might have had 10 new houses a year.''
 Environmental groups are most upset about the Tupper Lake resort, which they say could establish a harmful precedent, encouraging others to build in the privately owned backcountry. Those forested lands, mostly owned by timber companies, make up a quarter of the park. They give the Adirondacks their look and feel as much as the 2.7 million acres of state-owned forest preserve. 
 ''Forest slopes would be clear-cut to make room for new roads, driveways, parking areas, houses, lawns and accessory buildings,'' John F. Sheehan, a spokesman for the Adirondack Council, an environmental group, said in an Op-Ed piece earlier this year in The Albany Times Union. ''The resulting fragmentation would devastate native plants and wildlife that depend on undisturbed habitat.''
 Mr. Foxman, the developer, said his company, Preserve Associates, planned to construct the great-camp residences on five-acre sections within the sprawling properties, which would limit fragmentation of the forest. 
 The plan's 461 town houses, 238 single-family houses and 40-room inn are within the permitted density limits for the site, which was once owned by a manufacturer of wooden bowls. Because of the project's scale and complexity, the project is subject to approval by the Adirondack Park Agency.
 Such enormous parcels are available for development because of the global competition facing big paper companies. Some have sold off forests that they had harvested for a century or more, while others sought to reduce their taxes by giving up development rights. The trend has created a rare opportunity for conservation, and Gov. George E. Pataki took it, protecting 575,000 acres since taking office in 1995, but other tracts have gone to developers.
 Many residents support the building proposals as a way to ease the tax burden in an area that has pockets of poverty and high unemployment. Tupper Lake, for example, was once a thriving mill town, but a series of fires in the first half of the last century wrecked the streetscape. In recent years, residents -- and the business district -- have suffered from the loss of the Big Tupper Ski Area, as well as a department store and supermarket. 
 ''I want it -- definitely,'' said Lynn Bishop, who lives here and owns Al's Taxi with her husband. ''It will bring more jobs and commerce to Tupper Lake.''
 In North Creek, a hamlet in the town of Johnsburg 50 miles from here, the town supervisor, William H. Thomas, backs a developer's plan to build 160 units of housing, 294 rooms in five hotels, 102,000 square feet of retail space and a golf course next to a town-operated ski bowl that closed in the 1970s. State and local officials have agreed to reopen the ski area eventually, making it part of nearby Gore Mountain, the state-run ski center.
 ''We could do nothing and try not to enthuse visitors to move in, and in a few years the taxes would be so high that nobody could afford to live here,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''I would rather go down fighting than do nothing.''
 Mr. Thomas acknowledged that renewed interest in the Adirondacks had driven up real estate prices, making home ownership elusive for young year-round residents. A house next door to his recently sold for $162,500; three years ago, it went for $75,000. Twenty low-income housing units are now rising in town, reflecting the robust market. 
 Concern about overdevelopment of the Adirondacks is nothing new. 
 It was worry about clear-cutting the mountainsides that led to the park's creation in 1892, along with the forest preserve. But the private lands remained largely unregulated. 
 Then, in the 1960s, after construction of the Northway, an extension of Interstate 87 that runs clear through the park to the Canadian border, new fears emerged over the fate of private timberlands and the potential for second-home development.
 In 1971, under Governor Rockefeller, the Adirondack Park Agency was created to control future development. It undertook an elaborate -- and fiercely contested -- classification of all the private lands in the park, based on existing development, proximity to forest preserve and natural features like slopes, soil types and wetlands.
 The six classifications, from the least restrictive (hamlet) to the most restrictive (resource management), laid out the permitted densities on every private parcel. The large swaths of backcountry -- timberlands classified as resource management -- require a generous 42.7 acres per structure.
 In a study of recent housing development, the Residents' Committee to Protect the Adirondacks found that from 1990 to 2004, about 13,500 new houses and buildings went up in the park. Of those, about 4,700 required permits from the Adirondack Park Agency. The pace has picked up, from a low of 724 permits issued in 1998 to about 1,200 permits last year. 
 ''Our goal is to strike for balance,'' said Keith P. McKeever, an agency spokesman, describing a constant tug of war between development and preservation. ''We have to protect the natural resources of the park, but the act clearly states that we have to balance that with the needs of local government and the thousands of people who live here year-round.''
 A poet from Johnsburg, Jeanne Robert Foster, echoes the fears of many who live here and love it: ''And the way things are going there won't be woods very long, or wilderness; it'll be imitation ranches, and ski runs, and places called by names that the folks who lived there years and years ago never heard of.''
 Ms. Foster was born in 1879.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The former Big Tupper Ski Area would be in a development putting hundreds of buildings on a 6,300-acre site. (Photo by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Don Dew, a real estate agent, in a former ski resort in a part of the Adirondacks that would be developed. (Photo by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. B2)Map of New York State highlighting Tupper Lake: Developments are planned near Tupper Lake and Gore Mountain. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RESORTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); SKIING (76%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); HOME PRICES (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); WRITERS (65%) Environment ; Housing ; Taxation

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Adirondack Mountains (NYS)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



639 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Allies Dressed in Green

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Heidelberg, Germany 

 BODY:
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Western allies have been asking: What will replace the threat of communism as the cement that holds together the Atlantic alliance? Some have argued terrorism, but I don't think so. I think my German friends have the best idea: the issue that will and should unite the West is energy and all its challenges. 
 After all, nothing is a bigger threat today to the Western way of life and quality of life than the combination of climate change, pollution, species loss, and Islamist radicalism and petro-authoritarianism -- all fueled by our energy addictions. And no solution is possible to these problems without concerted government actions to reduce emissions, to inspire green innovation and to shift from oil to renewable power. 
Therefore, green is not just the new red, white and blue -- the next great American national security project -- it should also be the color, focus and cement of the Atlantic alliance in the 21st century. As a German official remarked to me, ''The whole issue has the potential of becoming a big trans-Atlantic project at a time when we have no other good big project that [embodies] a vision.''
 The intertwined environmental and energy challenges we face today are so acute that they can no longer be addressed by ''virtuous individuals hopping on a bus instead of taking the car,'' argued Jonathan Freedland, a columnist for the British newspaper The Guardian. ''This is a job for government.'' 
 Germany's foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, recently gave a major address on how ''energy security will strongly influence the global security agenda in the 21st century.'' And Britain's foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett, just delivered a speech declaring that climate change ''is not just an environmental problem. It is a defense problem. It is a problem for those who deal with economics and development, conflict prevention, agriculture, finance, housing, transport, innovation, trade and health.''
 The fact that the foreign ministers are making this their agendas suggests that energy will soon move to the heart of the alliance's agenda. As Mr. Freedland put it, ''If climate change is a foreign policy problem, foreign policy can surely be part of the climate change solution.''
 However, for what I call ''geo-greenism'' -- thinking about green in strategic terms -- to become the new core of the alliance, European greens will have to become more ''geo'' and the U.S. government more ''green.''
 European Green parties have tended to wrap their environmentalism in a very high-minded tone that was always more moralizing than strategic. For instance, Europe's Greens led the global campaign against genetically modified crops, which will be critically important if we want to grow more of our fuel -- a la corn ethanol or soy biodiesel. The Greens in Germany also forced the previous government to agree to phase out Germany's nuclear power plants by 2021. That would mean uninstalling 30 percent of Germany's energy capacity. It would be great if it were all replaced by wind or solar power, but it will most likely be replaced by coal.
 Jurgen Hogrefe, who was spokesman for the Green Party in Lower Saxony, Germany, in the 1980s, is today a senior executive with EnBW, a German energy company with nuclear plants.
 ''The Green Party has been extremely important for German society,'' he said, helping to transform the post-Nazi society into a more liberal domain. But an antinuclear stance has been at the core of the party, and now that the German mainstream has embraced a green agenda, the Greens need to rethink nuclear energy. ''The Green Party should redefine itself,'' added Mr. Hogrefe. ''In some fields they are very modern party. But concerning nuclear energy and ecology they are stubborn, not open enough to see what is happening around the globe.''
 One reason President Bush has failed to become the leader of the West is because he has failed to lead on green, which has become so important to all our allies. I doubt that he'll redefine U.S. policy in his last two years, but the issues around climate change and energy conservation are now rising so fast it's impossible to imagine that his successor won't -- whoever it is. And once that happens, it is impossible to imagine that living green, instead of fighting reds, won't become the new glue of the Atlantic alliance. 
 Or as Hermann Ott, head of the Berlin office of the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy, remarked to me, ''We don't need aliens to unite our world, we have a problem right at the center'' now -- and the solution is green. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); TERRORISM (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (64%); WRITERS (64%); AGRICULTURE (61%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (61%) Energy and Power; United States International Relations; Conservation of Resources; Energy and Power

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)

PERSON: FRANK-WALTER STEINMEIER (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



640 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Klinsmann Is Open to Coaching U.S. Team

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
Fresh from a leadership seminar in North Carolina run by Duke's Mike Krzyzewski, Jurgen Klinsmann said yesterday that he remained a candidate for the vacant coaching position with the United States national soccer team.
 ''Absolutely I'm interested,'' Klinsmann, who led his native Germany to the World Cup semifinals this summer, said in a telephone interview from his home in Southern California. ''I kind of needed some time to reflect after the World Cup. I've been in touch with Sunil and had several conversations, all very positive. Right now, I'm trying to do my homework, talking to people to find out more about how things work in the U.S.''
Klinsmann was referring to Sunil Gulati, the Columbia economics professor who is also the president of the United States Soccer Federation. Gulati is conducting a worldwide search for a replacement for Bruce Arena, and is currently in Europe. 
 In addition to Klinsmann, American officials have spoken to some of the top coaches in the world, a list that includes Sven-Goran Eriksson, Luiz Felipe Scolari, Guus Hiddink and Gerard Houllier. Also believed to be under consideration are Peter Nowak and Frank Yallop of Major League Soccer. Nowak, who is from Poland, coaches D.C. United and Yallop, a Canadian, coaches the Los Angeles Galaxy. 
 Gulati has said that he hopes to announce a new coach by the middle of November, and that the person would have to be familiar with the game and the players in the United States, be fluent in English, or willing to learn, and also be willing to learn Spanish.
 Klinsmann has also been mentioned as a possible successor to Ricardo Lavolpe, an Argentine, as coach of Mexico's national team. Asked if he had spoken to Mexican officials, Klinsmann said, ''No comment.'' 
 He said he has ''very limited'' Spanish-language skills, but speaks fluent Italian. ''I could pick it up quickly,'' he said.
 Klinsmann has been at the top of nearly every list since Arena, the national team manager since 1998, left to become the coach of the Red Bulls of M.L.S. Arena's national team contract was set to expire at the end of the year. Klinsmann initially said he would not be interested in the United States job.
 ''I simply wanted a break for family reasons,'' he said. ''I told everyone that I would not be able to go back straight into work. I needed to settle back into a normal life, taking my kids to school every day. I had said that for the next half year I would not consider any new jobs.''
 Asked about Arena's recent assertion that an American should get the job, Klinsmann diplomatically disagreed.
 ''All I can say is that soccer is a global game, and when you deal with a national team it is all about guiding it in the World Cup,'' he said. ''You need a global picture, not a U.S. picture. It always helps to know about the domestic situation, but there are always people you can use as a resource -- Bruce, Sigi Schmid, Bob Bradley.''
 He added: ''In the U.S., the situation is very different. Soccer is on the rise here, but it is not a deep part of the American culture. M.L.S. and U.S. Soccer people have done a good job securing long-term partnerships with ESPN and Univision. But for me, the biggest issue is player development for a high level in a highly professional environment for the whole year -- how you educate players to be real professionals.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%) Soccer; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (56%)

PERSON: Jack Bell; Jurgen Klinsmann

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



641 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Deluge of Doubles Leaves Tigers Treading Water

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
A little rain falls into the life of the World Series, and people become ridiculous. 
 Play the World Series at warm-weather sites, they say, as the Super Bowl is played.
Shorten the season so the World Series can be played earlier in October without the danger of it finishing in November.
 Play doubleheaders to make up rained out games. 
 Etc., etc., etc.
 Relax, folks, they'll get the games in. They always have. 
 Before Game 4 of this rain-splattered Series last night, 595 games had been played in the World Series and only 22 (3.7 percent) had been postponed because of the weather, a few of them for more than a day, but those games were ultimately played.
 ''I hope that we play this by Thanksgiving,'' Merv Rettenmund, a Cincinnati Reds outfielder, said during a three-day break for rain in Boston during the 1975 World Series between his team and the Red Sox.
 Games 6 and 7 of that Series were played by Thanksgiving, and the Tigers and the Cardinals played their game last night. With no rain to deter them, the Cardinals won, 5-4, and are one victory from winning the World Series for the first time since 1982.
 Weather permitting -- and that's saying a lot -- the Cardinals can wrap it up at soggy Busch Stadium tonight. The forecast calls for a 100 percent chance of rain during the day, but none tonight.
 In a way, it did rain at Busch last night. It rained David Eckstein doubles. Eckstein, the scrappy shortstop, drilled three doubles, the last driving in the winning run in the eighth inning. That drive barely eluded Craig Monroe, the left fielder, who raced back in left-center and dived, but couldn't quite reach the ball.
 ''I was hoping it was going to find a little bit of grass out there,'' said Eckstein, who had an infield single in his first at-bat. ''The ball was kind of straightening out and kept going. I said, please get over him, and it just got over his glove.''
 For exuberant St. Louis fans, Eckstein's last hit was as good as Carlton Fisk's home run that won Game 6 for the Red Sox in 1975, a game that became one of the most memorable in World Series history. In fact, some people, including Bowie Kuhn, who was the commissioner then, have cited that Series as the event that rescued a struggling sport and ignited a growth in popularity in the game that continues today.
 Believe that or not -- I don't -- the World Series did not suffer for the rainouts. Who would have wanted to move those games to Los Angeles or San Diego? Why would anyone want to put the Cardinals and the Tigers at the Metrodome in Minneapolis or the Rogers Center in Toronto?
 ''I don't think the warm-weather site is a good idea,'' Aaron Miles, the Cardinals' second baseman, said yesterday before he singled and scored the Cardinals' first run, ''because it's something the fans have been waiting for and it's a reward for coming to the games and doing everything they do.''
 Jim Leyland, the Detroit manager, also registered his opposition to the warm-weather idea, and more emphatically.
 ''I would never go for that,'' he said. ''I love this. I don't care how miserable it is. I think it would be a crying shame to take something like this away from the fans of St. Louis or the fans of Detroit. I would never go for that at all.''
 A move to a nonparticipating city could also be disastrous economically. It's one thing to sell out the Super Bowl, especially for the social event it has become, but another to fill one or two neutral sites for seven games. 
 What about shortening the season? Neither the owners nor the players would want to do that. The owners don't want to give up the revenue from four lost games (based on a 154-game schedule, 77 home games instead of 81), and the players don't want to give up nearly 5 percent of their salaries.
 All right, compromise. Retain the 162-game schedule, but spread a week's worth of doubleheaders throughout the season. But that plan would reduce the number of home dates and gates. There's an answer for that, too. Play split doubleheaders, day-night, with separate admissions.
 As for the idea of making up rained-out World Series games by making them part of a doubleheader the next day, that's one of the more inane suggestions. Not even zealous fans would want to sit through two World Series games in one day, nor should that burden be placed on the teams. 
 Everyone has a solution to the problem, but what's the problem? The last World Series game rained out before Wednesday night's was 10 years ago, at Yankees Stadium in 1996. Before that? Ten years earlier, at Shea Stadium.
 Play the World Series earlier in October to reduce the chances of rainouts? Of the 22 games that have been postponed, 14 were scheduled to be played before the middle of the month. The three days of rain that delayed Game 6 in San Francisco in 1962 came before the middle of the month. That was the World Series that ended with Willie McCovey hitting a torrid line drive with runners at second and third that second baseman Bobby Richardson caught, preserving the Yankees' 1-0 victory.
 The 1975 World Series languished for three days, Oct. 18-20, in Boston, and the Reds worked out on the second and third days indoors at Tufts University in Medford, Mass.
 The Cardinals and the Tigers didn't have to do anything special to deal with the rain this week. The Tigers, however, need to do an awful lot special to stay in the Series.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The last of David Eckstein's three doubles last night, in the eighth inning, drove in Aaron Miles with the winning run for the Cardinals in Game 4. (Photo by Morry Gash/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WEATHER (78%); THANKSGIVING (77%); ATHLETES (73%) Baseball; World Series; Weather ; Rain

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%) Detroit Tigers; St Louis Cardinals

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (70%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (70%); OHIO, USA (56%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



642 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Suit Against Atlantic Yards Challenges Eminent Domain

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
In a widely anticipated legal maneuver, opponents of the Atlantic Yards project filed suit in federal court yesterday, challenging the state's authority to use its eminent-domain powers to acquire property and make way for the $4.2 billion development near Downtown Brooklyn.
 The plaintiffs in the case were 10 people who the developer, Forest City Ratner, said have refused offers or resisted negotiations to buy their homes or businesses, or to be relocated to other rental apartments. The suit was filed in United States District Court in Brooklyn. 
The plaintiffs' lawyers, from firms in Manhattan and Albany and from South Brooklyn Legal Services, said the use of eminent domain would be unconstitutional because it would result in the transfer of private property to a developer without the public benefit that eminent domain is intended to bestow.
 ''The Atlantic Yards proposal is premised on the abuse of eminent domain,'' said Matthew D. Brinckerhoff, the plaintiffs' lead lawyer. It would mean ''the taking of one citizen's property to benefit a powerful and influential private citizen,'' he said.
 That citizen, Bruce Ratner, the president of Forest City Ratner, was named as a defendant, along with Gov. George E. Pataki and his chief development official, Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. Other defendants include Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding.
 Mayor Bloomberg said yesterday that opponents of the Atlantic Yards project, who have long protested the use of eminent domain, were ''misguided'' and called the suit a ''delaying tactic.'' 
 ''This is a project whose time has come,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 Jessica Copen, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gargano, declined to comment, saying that Mr. Gargano's staff had not received a copy of the suit.
 Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City Ratner, said the lawsuit was disappointing, but not unexpected. ''We have tried everything in our power to negotiate fair and beneficial transactions,'' he said. ''However, a small group of people have either refused to speak with us or, for whatever reason, we have been unable to reach an agreement.''
 The Atlantic Yards project would include 8.7 million square feet of housing, office and retail space and a basketball arena for the Nets. 
 If eminent domain were used by the state, it would be intended to complete the process of assembling property needed for the project, some of which the developer has negotiated to buy from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 Forest City Ratner said yesterday that it controls 89 percent of the land needed to complete the project. Forest City said it has control of 93 percent of the condominiums and co-ops on the site and 66 percent of the commercial property.
 Forest City is also the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company.
 The lawsuit comes at a time of heightened public scrutiny around the country of the use of eminent domain, with a groundswell of sentiment in some regions that it has been used too often to unfairly seize private property.
 Mr. Brinckerhoff said yesterday that the plaintiffs' case was supported by a United States Supreme Court ruling in 2005 that said the city of New London, Conn., could proceed with a large-scale plan to replace a faded residential neighborhood with offices and commercial development, over the objections of 15 homeowners, who refused offers for their homes and wanted to stay.
 Even though those plaintiffs lost, Mr. Brinckerhoff said the case, Kelo v. New London, buttressed the arguments of the plaintiffs in Brooklyn because of what the Supreme Court said the government could not do, including using eminent domain simply to transfer property from one individual to another without sufficient public benefits.
 Daniel Goldstein, one of the plaintiffs and a member of Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, said yesterday that the suit may heighten nationwide awareness of the conflict in Brooklyn and help raise money for the group's legal bills.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a lawsuit against the proposed Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn gave an erroneous given name in some copies for a spokeswoman for one of the defendants, Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. She is Jessica Copen, not Jennifer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (69%) Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



643 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Fear Disillusionment In Black Voters

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Last weekend, Jim Webb, the Virginia Democrat who hopes to oust Senator George Allen, crammed in visits to 12 black churches, and for several weeks he has been pumping money into advertisements on black radio stations and in black newspapers.
 In Missouri, Claire McCaskill, the Democrat trying to unseat Senator Jim Talent, has been running advertisements about sickle cell anemia, a genetic illness that mostly afflicts black people, and the importance of stem cell research in helping to find a cure.
For Democrats like these in tight races, black voter turnout will be crucial on Election Day. But despite a generally buoyant Democratic Party nationally, there are worries among Democratic strategists in some states that blacks may not turn up at the polls in big enough numbers because of disillusionment over past shenanigans.
 ''This notion that elections are stolen and that elections are rigged is so common in the public sphere that we're having to go out of our way to counter them this year,'' said Donna Brazile, a Democratic strategist. 
 This will be the first midterm election in which the Democratic Party is mobilizing teams of lawyers and poll watchers, to check for irregularities including suppression of the black vote, in at least a dozen of the closest districts, Ms. Brazile said.
 Democrats' worries are backed up by a Pew Research Center report that found that blacks were twice as likely now than they were in 2004 to say they had little or no confidence in the voting system, rising to 29 percent from 15 percent. 
 And more than three times as many blacks as whites -- 29 percent versus 8 percent -- say they do not believe that their vote will be accurately tallied.
 Voting experts say the disillusionment is the cumulative effect of election problems in 2000 and 2004, and a reaction to new identification and voter registration laws.
 Long lines and shortages of poll workers in lower-income neighborhoods in the 2004 election and widespread reports of fliers with misinformation appearing in minority areas have also had a corrosive effect on confidence, experts say.
 The harder question is whether this jaded outlook will diminish turnout.
 Recent polls have found record levels of outrage from Democrats about the current political leadership, which may offset the effect of black disillusion.
 But Saleemah Affoul of Milwaukee, for one, is not so sure. Like many other black people in her neighborhood, Ms. Affoul said she was convinced that no matter how she voted, it would not be counted fairly.
 ''I do think the system is rigged,'' she said. ''I vote anyway because my forefathers worked too hard to win me that right. But not everyone feels that responsibility around here.''
 Walking along Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in the gritty and mostly black section of Brewers Hill on the North Side of Milwaukee, Ms. Affoul said that cynicism in her neighborhood was on the rise. 
 She traced her own skepticism to one afternoon two months before the last presidential election when she overheard several young black men saying they were not going to vote because they feared being arrested at the polling station for their unpaid parking tickets. The neighborhood had been flooded with fliers from the Milwaukee Black Voters League, a fictitious group, saying that even minor infractions like parking tickets disqualified people from voting. 
 Ms. Affoul, 66, said she argued with the men but failed to convince them that they had been misinformed. 
 ''I realized that maybe the poll tax isn't gone after all, and that if people were willing to try that trick, they might be willing to do a lot more that I don't even know about,'' she said. 
 Black voters are expected to play crucial roles in races for governor and the Senate in Florida, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Virginia. 
 In Maryland, where blacks make up about 30 percent of the electorate, the Democratic candidate for governor, Martin O'Malley, who is white, is trailing the Republican incumbent, Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., by several points. Mr. O'Malley needs a large turnout among blacks in Baltimore to win, and he has mobilized more than 2,000 get-out-the-vote workers in black neighborhoods. He also helped his chances of attracting the black vote by selecting Anthony G. Brown, a black lawyer, as his running mate. 
 In Tennessee, Representative Harold E. Ford Jr. is depending on a strong showing from blacks in Memphis, which he represents, to edge past Bob Corker and become the first black senator from a Southern state since Reconstruction. 
 In Virginia, Democrats hope that recent accusations of racism against Senator Allen will motivate blacks to vote for his Democratic opponent, Mr. Webb.
 Ronald Walters, director of the African American Leadership Institute at the University of Maryland, said the reason for the rise in black voters' cynicism could be summed up in a single word: confirmation.
 Mr. Walters said that episodes of voter suppression that were dismissed in 2000 as unfounded recurred in 2004 and were better documented because rights groups dispatched thousands of lawyers and poll watchers. In addition, the first national data-tracking tool, the Election Incident Reporting System, offered a national hot line that fed a database of what ended up to be 40,000 problems.
 ''All of a sudden after 2004, these weren't just baseless or isolated incidents,'' Mr. Walters said.
 The type of misleading letter sent this month to 14,000 Hispanic immigrants in Orange County, Calif., threatening them with arrest if they tried to vote, was hardly a first. In 2004, similar fliers appeared in predominantly black neighborhoods in the Pittsburgh area, on official-looking letterheads. The fliers said that because of unusually high voter registration, Republicans were to vote on Election Day, and Democrats were to vote the next day. 
 Fliers sent in Lake County, Ohio, told people that if they had registered through the N.A.A.C.P., they could not vote.
 Asked whether such tactics from 2004 could influence black turnout next month, the Rev. Al Sharpton of New York, whose National Action Network is also mobilizing voter protection teams, said that despite insufficient action from Democrats in responding to the problems, he believed that black turnout would be high.
 ''Just because more of us believe that folks are trying to rob us of certain rights doesn't mean we are more likely to give up and leave the front door unlocked,'' Mr. Sharpton said.
 The rollout of new voting machines may also be contributing to black voters' fears. 
 ''African-Americans are more susceptible to conspiracy theories about the new technology because they have been subject to actual conspiracies more often than the rest of the population,'' said David A. Bositis, senior political analyst for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington, a research organization dedicated to African-American issues.
 Marsha Lindsey, a black paramedic and former poll worker in Dayton, Ohio, said that after 2004 she stopped arguing with her black friends when they said there was no point in voting. 
 Spencer Overton, a law professor at George Washington University and author of ''Stealing Democracy: the New Politics of Voter Suppression,'' said the threat of voter suppression presented difficult strategic decisions.
 ''Voter suppression is a real threat,'' Mr. Overton said, ''but Democrats can't invest so much into voter protection that they don't have adequate resources to turn out their voters to the polls in the first place.'' 
 The Rev. DeForest B. Soaries, who is black and was appointed by President George W. Bush as the first chairman of the United States Election Assistance Commission, an agency meant to help carry out the Help America Vote Act, said Democrats overestimated the problem of voter suppression in much the same way Republicans overestimated the problem of voter fraud.
 Skepticism is especially pronounced in poor black neighborhoods, Mr. Soaries said, because these communities are often disproportionately affected by problems with machines and the number and training of poll workers. When problems do occur in these areas, he added, they occur against a historical backdrop of voter suppression.
 Whatever its consequence, the topic is very much on Democrats' minds. At a recent Democratic fund-raiser in Atlanta, at the home of Representative John Lewis, who is black, conversation centered on perceptions that widespread voter disenfranchisement would haunt the 2006 elections. 
 Former President Bill Clinton addressed the issue there, criticizing some Republican campaign tactics. After mentioning rough-edged political ads and other strategies, he said, ''And when that doesn't work, they try to keep you from voting.'' 
 Headed into a statewide candidates' forum on prison overhaul, for pastors from Baltimore, the Rev. Heber Brown III, who is black, said that the success of black voter mobilization efforts in 2004 set the stage for some disillusion.
 ''Last time, you had hip-hop leaders like Russell Simmons, Eminem and Sean Combs with the Vote or Die campaign and lots of young blacks voted but what did they get?'' said Mr. Brown, 26, pastor of Shiloh Baptist Church in Baltimore County. ''Now when you talk to young black voters you can't just say, 'Get out the vote,' you have to first do a lot of explaining, cut through a lot of confusion about the 2004 vote and first talk about how change takes time.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about close races in which black voter turnout is expected to be crucial misstated the findings of polls in the race for governor in Maryland. Polls show that the Democrat, Martin O'Malley, is either leading Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., a Republican, or is ahead of him within the poll's margin of sampling error. Mr. O'Malley is not ''trailing by several points.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Webb, the Democratic candidate for Senate in Virginia, courting black voters in Norfolk last week as he tried to unseat George Allen. (Photo by Rich-Joseph Facun/The Virginian-Pilot)
 Saleemah Affoul of Milwaukee said, ''I do think the system is rigged.'' (Photo by Joshua Lott for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart: ''An Influential Group''Although confidence in the voting system is low among black voters, according to a recent survey, the number of blacks who reported that they voted has increased since 1990.Turnout among voting-age populationGraph tracks voting turnout for blacks and all voters in midterm elections and presidential elections since 1990.Blacks constituted a significant share of voters in the 2004 election in states that have competitive races for governor and the Senate this year.Blacks as percentage of people who reported voting in 2004Maryland: 25%Virginia: 15Tennessee: 14New York: 14New Jersey: 13Michigan: 12Missouri: 12Florida: 11Ohio: 11Pennsylvania: 8Connecticut: 811%, United States as a whole(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); ETHICS (76%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (75%); ANEMIA (71%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); ELECTION LAW (70%); LABOR SHORTAGES (62%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (56%) Blacks; Public Opinion; Ethics; Election Issues; Voter Registration and Requirements; Identification Devices; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Pew Research Center

PERSON: JIM WEBB (90%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%) Ian Urbina; Donna Brazile

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



644 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Kean Name vs. Doubt on Bush Makes for Tossup in New Jersey 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican challenger for United States Senate in New Jersey, has capitalized on his father's reputation to offset voters' qualms about his inexperience. Senator Robert Menendez has been buoyed by discontent with President Bush. The result in this heavily Democratic state is an extremely tight race, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
 The poll suggests that Mr. Kean, a state senator, has done surprisingly well in a year when other Republicans are struggling even on friendlier turf not because of Mr. Kean himself, but because of his father, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, one of the state's most popular politicians.
Mr. Kean's commercials attacking Mr. Menendez as unethical and corrupt have also worked, with many voters saying that corruption is the first thing that springs to mind when asked about Mr. Menendez. 
 Mr. Menendez is widely considered the nation's most vulnerable Democratic Senate incumbent, as the Democrats try to win six seats to take control of the Senate, and 56 percent of his supporters said they would vote for him not because of his views or his character, but because of his party.
 Fifty-eight percent of those favoring Mr. Menendez said they are doing so as a rebuke to Mr. Bush, while 68 percent said they want to help swing the Senate to the Democrats.
 ''I am so concerned about the makeup of the Senate of the United States,'' said E. Janet Hackbarth, a 67-year-old retired high school teacher in Pompton Lakes, in a follow-up interview after the poll was completed. Describing herself as an independent, she added, ''I am voting for Menendez because I am voting against the Republicans.''
 Over all, the race is a statistical tossup, with Mr. Menendez leading 38 percent to 36 percent among registered voters, and 40 percent to 39 percent among likely voters. Yet neither candidate has generated much enthusiasm, or made much of an impression. More than half of those surveyed said they had no opinion -- either good or bad -- about the candidates.
 As a result, the race appears to be far more fluid than recent Senate races in New Jersey. Thirty-nine percent of registered voters said that they could change their minds before the Nov. 7 election; that figure was 13 percent in a Times poll taken at about the same point during the 2002 campaign between Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and Douglas R. Forrester.
 With the national parties promising to pump an additional $7.5 million into the race in the final two weeks, the race could well hinge on last-minute commercials or surprises. And that could be anything from any developments related to Iraq or the Mark Foley scandal, potentially favoring Mr. Menendez, to conservative backlash against the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision Wednesday to grant gay couples equal rights, potentially benefiting Mr. Kean.
 The Times poll, conducted Friday through Wednesday, did not include questions about gay unions.
 But if patterns hold, the race will come down to what is essentially a proxy battle: those who are motivated by national issues, and dislike Mr. Bush, versus those who are motivated by local issues, and who look up to former Governor Kean.
 Robert Sapanara, 69, a Republican from Ramsey, a northern New Jersey suburb, offered a response typical of those who said that they would vote for Mr. Kean. ''I think there's got to be some counseling given to him by his father, and hopefully some of those genes rubbed off on him,'' he said. 
 Mr. Menendez's difficulties are noteworthy because no other Democratic incumbent is in as close a race, motivating Republicans nationally to focus increased attention and resources on the race. Of course, the word incumbent merits an asterisk, because Mr. Menendez, a longtime congressman from Hudson County, was appointed in December to serve out the balance of Jon S. Corzine's term when he was elected governor.
 Still, Democratic consultants express frustration with the race, because they had not counted on paying much attention to New Jersey in their bid to wrest control of the Senate away from Republicans.
 Both campaigns have already spent a lot of money: through Oct. 18, Mr. Menendez spent $9.3 million, and Mr. Kean $5 million, with much of that on television commercials in the last couple of months.
 The telephone poll included 1,023 adults throughout the state, 849 of them registered to vote. The margin of sampling error for both was plus or minus three percentage points. In addition, 522 of the registered voters were determined to be likely to vote, and the margin of sampling error for that group was plus or minus four percentage points.
 The poll showed that 28 percent of voters have an unfavorable impression of Mr. Menendez, compared with 18 percent with a favorable impression. Mr. Kean is viewed unfavorably by 22 percent, and favorably by 24 percent.
 Part of the appeal of Mr. Kean, the poll suggests, comes from his bloodline. Voters said that they were favorably disposed toward the elder Mr. Kean by 52 to 10 percent; 27 percent said they were more likely to view the younger Mr. Kean favorably because of his father.
 And what was the first thing that popped into voters' minds when asked about Mr. Kean? The fact that he was a governor's son, according to 33 percent of those surveyed; no other factor had more than 10 percent.
 Fifty-nine percent of voters feel that Mr. Menendez, who has spent three decades at all levels of government, has the right experience for the job, compared with 48 percent for Mr. Kean, who has spent five years in the State Legislature. 
 Voters say that they trust Mr. Kean more, however, with 55 percent saying that he has the honesty and integrity to be effective, and 24 percent saying he does not, versus ratios of 45 percent to 34 percent for Mr. Menendez.
 Still, only 36 percent of voters said that Mr. Kean, who grew up in a wealthy family, could relate to the needs of regular people, while 46 percent said he could not. For Mr. Menendez, the son of poor Cuban immigrants, the numbers were reversed, with 43 percent saying he could relate, and 37 percent saying he could not.
 When voters were presented with a list of issues and asked to name the one most important in their decision, 37 percent selected the economy and jobs, followed by 22 percent who said Iraq, 15 percent who said terrorism and 14 percent who said health care.
 Those more concerned about national issues, with Iraq being No. 1, leaned toward Mr. Menendez; those more focused on local issues, with taxes being No. 1, favored Mr. Kean.
 About 80 percent of Republicans support Mr. Kean and 69 percent of Democrats prefer Mr. Menendez. Independents, who make up about 35 percent of voters in the state, divide 36 percent for Mr. Kean to 32 percent for Mr. Menendez.
 A classic gender gap also exists. Mr. Kean is ahead by 12 points among men, while Mr. Menendez enjoys a 13-point advantage among women. There is a typical urban and suburban divide, too, with Mr. Menendez faring better in the northern urban areas, and Mr. Kean leading in Republican strongholds like Morris, Somerset and Hunterdon Counties, in the northwestern part of the state.
 Of those who said they were undecided, 22 percent were independents, 12 percent were Democrats and 7 percent were Republicans.
 By three to one and more, voters also said that both candidates were spending too much time attacking each other; 30 percent said that Mr. Kean was more responsible for the negative tone, while 21 percent blamed Mr. Menendez.
 ''Both of these people are just slandering each other, getting vicious, spending X amount of dollars, I'm just sick of it,'' said Georgette Hendricksen, 59, a Republican from Roselle Park, a middle-class town in central New Jersey. '' I don't know which we'd be better off with. I'm going to wait until the last minute to decide.''

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll of New Jersey is based on telephone interviews conducted from last Friday through Wednesday, with 1,023 adults across the state. Of these, 849 said they were registered to vote. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of New Jersey exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each area of the state was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike.
 Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age, education and marital status.
 In addition, the questions about voting preferences in the 2006 elections are based on 522 ''likely voters,'' defined by registration, intention to vote, attention to the campaign, past voting behavior and length of time in their community. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of New Jersey. 
 For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For instance, ''likely voters'' have a sampling error of plus or minus four points. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. 
 In addition, the practical difficulties of conducting any public opinion survey may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for example, can lead to somewhat varying results.
 Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/polls.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Views of New Jersey Voters''Do you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling his job as president?VOTERS FAVORINGROBERT MENENDEZApprove: 8%No opinion: 2Disapprove: 90THOMAS H. KEAN JR.Approve: 67No opinion: 6Disapprove: 28Perceptions of the candidates (questions for all voters)What is your opinion of the candidate?MENENDEZFavorable: 18Unfavorable: 28Undecided or don't know enough: 53No opinion: 1KEANFavorable: 24Unfavorable: 22Undecided or don't know enough: 54No opinion: 1Does the candidate have more, less or the same honesty and integrity than most people in public life?MENENDEZMore: 14Less: 28Same: 39No opinion: 28KEANMore: 24Less: 8Same: 38No opinion: 29Does the candidate understand the needs and problems of people like yourself?MENENDEZUnderstands: 43Doesn't: 37No opinion: 20KEANUnderstands: 36Doesn't: 46No opinion: 19Does the candidate have the right kind of experience to be senator?MENENDEZHas experience: 59Doesn't: 20No opinion: 21KEANHas experience: 48Doesn't: 28No opinion: 24Are you satisfied that the candidate has the honesty and integrity to serve effectively as senator?MENENDEZSatisfied: 45Not satisfied: 34No opinion: 21KEANSatisfied: 55Not satisfied: 24No opinion: 22Does the candidate agree with President Bush on issues too often, not often enough or the right amount?MENENDEZToo much: 6Too little: 33Right amount: 36No opinion: 25KEANToo much: 36Too little: 6Right amount: 39No opinion: 19Based on statewide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 20-25 with 849 registered voters. Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding. (pg. B10)ChartDo you think of your vote for senator this fall as a vote for or against George W. Bush, or don't you think of your vote as being about him?For BushKEAN VOTERS: 22%MENENDEZ VOTERS: 2%Against BushKEAN VOTERS: 5MENENDEZ VOTERS: 58Not about himKEAN VOTERS: 71MENENDEZ VOTERS: 39No opinionKEAN VOTERS: 2MENENDEZ VOTERS: 2Data may not add to 100 due to rounding. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%) Elections; Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Political Advertising; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BOB MENENDEZ (92%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%) David W Chen; Marjorie Connelly; Robert (Sen) Menendez; Thomas H Jr (Sen) Kean; Thomas H Kean; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey; New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



645 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: In '97, U.S. Panel Predicted a North Korea Collapse in 5 Years

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI; Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
A team of government and outside experts convened by the Central Intelligence Agency concluded in 1997 that North Korea's economy was deteriorating so rapidly that the government of Kim Jong-il was likely to collapse within five years, according to declassified documents made public on Thursday. 
 The panel described the isolated and impoverished country as being on the brink of economic ruin and said that ''political implosion stemming from irreversible economic degradation seems the most plausible endgame for North Korea.'' The majority among the group argued that the North's government ''cannot remain viable for the long term'' and could fall within five years. 
Nearly a decade later, the assessment has not been borne out, and its disclosure is evidence of past American misjudgments about the internal dynamics of North Korea's closed society. American intelligence agencies still regard North Korea as among the toughest of intelligence targets and have made little progress inserting human spies into the country to steal secrets about the government. 
 The assessment was produced by a group that included senior intelligence analysts, Pentagon war gamers and independent academic experts. It was made public on Thursday by the National Security Archive, a research group. 
 ''Conventional wisdom was completely wrong,'' said Ambassador Wendy Sherman, who during the late 1990s was the Clinton administration's coordinator for North Korea policy. ''People constantly underestimated the staying power of the North Korean regime.''
 The North Korean economy has stabilized in recent years, in part because of a sustained humanitarian aid campaign carried out by the country's neighbors, especially China and South Korea. Today, there is less belief in Washington that Mr. Kim could lose his grip on power because of an economic collapse within the country.
 The documents released Thursday chart a pattern of growing concern about North Korea's economic crisis during the second half of Bill Clinton's presidency. 
 The belief that the North Korean economy was collapsing helped shaped White House thinking in 1994 when it promised to deliver light-water nuclear reactors to North Korea by 2003 in exchange for Pyongyang's halting its covert nuclear weapons program. Senior Clinton administration officials said privately at the time that they did not expect Mr. Kim's government to be in power by the time the United States had to make good on its pledge. 
 By early 1997, according to another document released Thursday, the C.I.A. had concluded that North Korea ''cannot reverse its economic fortunes without sweeping reform that would take time to produce results that could unleash destabilizing forces.''
 The documents disclosed a misjudgment by the C.I.A. that is the mirror image of an earlier one: while it was predicting an imminent North Korean collapse, the agency was still being criticized for failing in the 1980s to anticipate the speed with which the Soviet Union would eventually fall. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice recently traveled across northeast Asia to build support for a slate of tough economic sanctions intended to punish North Korea for its recent nuclear test.
 Publicly, Bush administration officials say that the sanctions can be useful for bringing North Korea back to the negotiating table. Privately however, some officials hold out the hope that the economic squeeze could work to undermine Mr. Kim. 
 Some members of the C.I.A.-led team of experts interviewed Thursday said they never suspected in 1997 that North Korea's neighbors would undertake such a concerted aid effort. 
 ''Maybe I just don't have a great imagination, but the idea that South Korea and Japan and other countries would come to North Korea's rescue wasn't one of the hypotheses that I was entertaining,'' said Nicholas Eberstadt, a North Korea expert at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article and headline on Oct. 27 about an intelligence assessment on North Korea misstated the nature of conclusions reached by a panel of specialists convened in 1997 by the Central Intelligence Agency. Although the specialists' report stated that the collapse of Kim Jong Il's regime ''seems the most plausible endgame for North Korea'' within five years, it did not predict that outcome. (The report, produced by experts from within the intelligence community and outside government, explicitly stated that it was not intended to ''predict the future course of events on the Korean Peninsula.'')
 The article also quoted incorrectly from a separate C.I.A. report about North Korea written in 1997. That report said that North Korea ''cannot reverse its economic fortunes without sweeping reform that would take time to produce results and could unleash destabilizing forces.'' It did not say that sweeping reform ''would take time to produce results that could unleash destabilizing forces.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); BILL CLINTON (77%) Mark Mazzetti; Kim Jong-il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



646 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Federal Rules Help Shield Creators of Political Advertisements 

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT and JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
When an advertisement mocking Representative Harold E. Ford Jr. set off controversy in the Tennessee Senate race last week, a question quickly arose: Who was behind the provocative and, critics said, racially loaded television spot?
 No Republicans wanted to take credit. When the identity of the producer, Scott Howell, emerged, Democrats quickly pounced on his history of bare-knuckled tactics and close relationship with Karl Rove as evidence of a familiar Republican approach.
And the incident quickly set off a wave of denials and denunciations from Republican officials, including the national party chairman and Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has hired Terry Nelson, another consultant affiliated with the spot. 
 The advertisement in question suggested a flirtation between a young bare-shouldered white woman, played by a blond actress, and Mr. Ford, the Democratic candidate in Tennessee for the Senate. It was supposed to stop running on Thursday amid complaints that it seemed intended to stir racial hatred, though there were reports that it was being broadcast on some stations.
 Associates of Mr. Howell said the advertisement was typical of a media strategist who has in the past manufactured political controversy to win tough races in spite of -- or because of -- the intense reaction the work so often provokes.
 He helped produce the early 2004 advertisement for President Bush that showed a coffin coming out of the rubble of the World Trade Center wreckage. It was immediately criticized by a group of Sept. 11 widows but was later credited with changing the subject of the campaign from economic woes to the president's national security credentials.
 In Georgia, Mr. Howell also was a top member of the media team working for Saxby Chambliss, the Republican whose advertisement in the 2002 Senate race accused Max Cleland, the Democratic incumbent and a triple-amputee Vietnam veteran, of being weak on national security by featuring an image of Osama Bin Laden to drive the point home. The spot infuriated Democrats but helped lead to Mr. Cleland's defeat. 
 Jim Jordan, a strategist for Mr. Ford, said that even if the anti-Ford advertisement was no longer running on television, it might have already helped inspire the core voters that Bob Corker, the Republican candidate for the Senate, will need to win. 
 ''He's having a hard time with his base, and this is the kind of ad the Republicans believe appeals to their base,'' Mr. Jordan said of Mr. Corker. But, Mr. Jordan said, the advertisement and the angry reaction it has provoked will backfire nonetheless by offending more important swing voters.
 Mr. Howell's latest ad says Mr. Ford voted to recognize gay marriage; Mr. Ford, in fact, twice voted in favor of a proposed constitutional amendment banning same-sex unions. The ad, which calls Mr. Ford slick and smooth, says Mr. Ford wants to give the ''morning after'' pill to school children, an outright falsehood, according to Mr. Ford's campaign.
 Yet if angry voters are looking for a place to direct their anger, they may have a hard time.
 Mr. Howell did not produce the spot for Mr. Corker, who has disavowed it. He produced it for a quasi-independent organization that is financed by the Republican National Committee but operates wholly out of the committee's control or direction. 
 Campaign finance regulations limit how much money the political parties can spend on campaigns with which they coordinate. But they allow parties to spend without limit if they set up committees that operate independent of the party leadership.
 Advocates for stricter campaign finance laws say the regulations, a result of court decisions several years ago, do little more than provide a fig leaf for the parties, insulating them from controversy like the one that is now engulfing the advertisement in Tennessee.
 Democrats have had their own run-ins with independent expenditure groups, though none as prominent as the controversy in Tennessee. 
 Station managers in Montana chafed at a Democratic senatorial committee advertisement, produced by an independent group, that featured Senator Conrad Burns using coarse language in discussing local firefighters. Mr. Howell, who once worked for Mr. Rove's direct-mail business in Texas, was hired by Mr. Nelson, who was political director of the Bush-Cheney campaign in 2004. Mr. Nelson was in turn hired by Ken Mehlman, the former Bush-Cheney campaign manager and White House political director who is now chairman of the Republican National Committee, to oversee the so-called independent expenditure operations. 
 All independent expenditure units are required to sign legal papers promising not to have contact with the campaign that they are hired to advocate on behalf of, and to receive only financial support, not strategic advice, from the national party. Mr. Nelson's firm, the Crosslink Strategy Group, employs as a consultant Chris LaCivita, who worked with the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, the group that produced negative advertisements about Senator John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign, according to the firm's Web site.
 Calls to a spokesman for Mr. Howell were not returned. Mr. Nelson, who has agreed to work with Mr. McCain if he runs for president in 2008, also did not return calls.
 John Weaver, an adviser to Mr. McCain, said Mr. Nelson would continue as an adviser to the senator despite the incident. But, Mr. Weaver said: ''We're pleased that the ad has been pulled down.''
 The Republican National Committee has said Mr. Howell's work against Mr. Ford was created out of sight of Mr. Mehlman, who did not even know what the spot would look like, when it would run or when it would stop running. And Mr. Mehlman was described by an associate who requested anonymity to share private conversations as frustrated by the process, which has occasionally made his committee responsible for advertisements that he has personally found objectionable.
 ''It may seem confusing and convoluted that the R.N.C. has no knowledge of these ads,'' said Brian Jones, a committee spokesman. ''But that's the way the law's been written, and we abide by it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A spot in the 2002 Georgia Senate race invoked Osama bin Laden to accuse the Democratic incumbent of being weak on national security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%) Political Advertising; Finances; Ethics; Law and Legislation

PERSON: JIM JORDAN (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (68%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); KARL ROVE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Anne E Kornblut; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



647 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. MOVES FAST TO REIGNITE ISSUE OF GAY MARRIAGE

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
The divisive debate over gay marriage, which played a prominent role in 2004 campaigns but this year largely faded from view, erupted anew on Thursday as President Bush and Republicans across the country tried to use a court ruling in New Jersey to rally dispirited conservatives to the polls.
 Wednesday's ruling, in which the New Jersey Supreme Court decided that gay couples are entitled to the same legal rights and financial benefits as heterosexual couples, had immediate ripple effects, especially in Senate races in some of the eight states where voters are considering constitutional amendments to ban gay marriage.
President Bush put a spotlight on the issue while campaigning in Iowa, which does not have a proposal on the ballot. With the Republican House candidate, Jeff Lamberti, by his side, Mr. Bush -- who has not been talking about gay marriage in recent weeks -- took pains to insert a reference into his stump speech warning that Democrats would raise taxes and make America less safe.
 ''Yesterday in New Jersey, we had another activist court issue a ruling that raises doubts about the institution of marriage,'' Mr. Bush said at a luncheon at the Iowa State Fairgrounds that raised $400,000 for Mr. Lamberti. 
 The president drew applause when he reiterated his long-held stance that marriage was ''a union between a man and a woman,'' adding, ''I believe it's a sacred institution that is critical to the health of our society and the well-being of families, and it must be defended.''
 The ruling in New Jersey left it to the Legislature to decide whether to legalize gay marriage. Even so, the threat that gay marriage could become legal energized conservatives at a time when Republican strategists say that turning out the base could make the difference between winning and losing on Nov. 7. With many independent analysts predicting Republicans will lose the House and possibly the Senate, President Bush's political team is counting on the party's sophisticated voter turnout machinery to hold Democratic advances enough that Republicans can at least maintain control.
 ''It's a game of margins,'' said Charles Black, a Republican strategist who consults frequently with Karl Rove, the chief White House political strategist. ''You've got about 20 House races and probably half a dozen Senate races that are either dead even or very, very close. So if it motivates voters in one or two to go vote, it could make a difference.''
 Democrats predicted Thursday that the debate would not dramatically alter the national conversation in an election that has been dominated by the war in Iraq and corruption and scandal in Washington. But across the country, Republicans quickly embraced the New Jersey ruling as a reason for voters to send them to Capitol Hill.
 In Virginia, the court decision could not have come at a better time for Senator George Allen, a Republican whose campaign for re-election had been thrown off course by allegations that he had used racially insensitive remarks. The Virginia ballot includes a proposed constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. Mr. Allen supports it; his Democratic opponent, Jim Webb, argues that the ban is unnecessary.
 On Thursday, Mr. Allen could be found in Roanoke at a rally held by backers of a ballot initiative to ban gay marriage. Victoria Cobb, an organizer of the events, said the New Jersey ruling was giving the cause ''a new momentum.'' 
 ''It's an issue that's going to play a big role in the next 12 days,'' Mr. Allen's campaign manager, Dick Wadhams, said in an interview. 
 In Tennessee, another state with a proposal to ban gay marriage, Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., a Democrat running for the Senate, was sparring with Republicans over an advertisement in which the Republican National Committee asserts that Mr. Ford supports gay marriage -- an assertion Mr. Ford says is wrong. On Thursday, he responded with his own advertisement, calling the Republican ad ''despicable, rotten lies.''
 Mr. Ford says he will vote for the Tennessee gay marriage ban. With early voting under way, the Republican candidate, Bob Corker, is telling voters that he has already cast his ballot in favor of the gay marriage ban. 
 And in Pennsylvania, where Senator Rick Santorum, the Senate's leading Republican backer of a gay marriage ban, is fighting for his political survival, conservative advocacy groups were working furiously to revive the gay marriage debate. Pennsylvania does not have a ballot initiative.
 ''It's an important wedge issue to talk about between candidates where there are two distinct viewpoints on the issue,'' said Joseph Cella, president of Fidelis, a national Catholic advocacy group that has embraced Mr. Santorum for his views on abortion and gay marriage. Mr. Cella said his organization, which was also working to pass a gay marriage ban in Colorado, was contemplating an advertising campaign.
 As of January 2006, 45 states had enacted some form of law -- from a simple statute to a constitutional amendment -- banning same-sex marriage. In addition to Virginia, Tennessee and Colorado, the states that have proposed constitutional amendments on the November ballot include Arizona, Idaho, South Carolina, South Dakota and Wisconsin.
 For conservatives, the debate brings back memories of 2004, when they rallied in opposition to a Massachusetts court ruling that same sex couples had a right to marry. The issue proved central in places like South Dakota, where Senator John Thune, a Republican, railed against activist judges in his successful campaign to oust Tom Daschle, then the Senate Democratic leader.
 This year, by contrast, conservatives have felt frustrated that the debate over gay marriage and the judiciary is no longer front and center. 
 ''I think they've been a little sedate,'' Mr. Cella said. But in the wake of the New Jersey ruling, he said, conservatives ''are really getting motivated, and this is a shot in the arm to propel that.''
 Democrats, though, insist they are not concerned.
 ''It's not going to be close to the issue it was in 2004,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''In 2004 they scared people that the court ruling in Massachusetts would just change America and families dramatically. By 2006, it's clear that hasn't happened, and so the scare tactic, what motivated people to go to the polls, just isn't there.''
 One place the New Jersey court ruling is not likely to have much of a political impact is, paradoxically, New Jersey, a largely Democratic state that does not have a proposed gay marriage ban on the ballot.
 The Republican Senate candidate, State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., has been distancing himself from his party throughout the campaign, in which he has focused largely on economic issues, domestic security and alleged ethical improprieties on the part of his Democratic opponent, Senator Robert Menendez. A Kean spokeswoman said Thursday that theme is unlikely to change.
 ''We're going to stick with the issues that we've been winning on this entire campaign,'' the spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, said. Gay marriage, she said, ''is not an issue that he's not talking about, or that he's trying to avoid. But in terms of our marquee issues that we're winning on, I don't think it rises to an issue that's going to define the campaign.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush speaking at a luncheon yesterday for Jeff Lamberti, a Republican candidate for Congress. (Photo by Jim Watson/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COHABITATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CORRUPTION (60%) Marriages; Election Issues; Homosexuality; Constitutional Amendments; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (57%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



648 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

At a China Border Stop, Little Sign of Sanctions
Despite China's support for United Nations economic sanctions against North Korea, it has remained vague on the issue of inspecting goods in border trade. At one border crossing, there was little evidence of the sanctions. A1

Nicaragua Outlaws Abortion 

Nicaragua banned all abortions, eliminating exceptions for rape and when the life of the mother is in danger. It joins El Salvador and Chile as the only countries in the Western hemisphere to ban abortion without exception. A8

African Award Proposed
Mo Ibrahim, a Sudanese-born billionaire, announced a $5 million prize for the sub-Saharan African president who, on leaving office, has demonstrated the greatest commitment to democracy and good governance. A11

Afghan Airstrike Investigation
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan issued a presidential decree directing a team of tribal elders and Afghan officials to investigate a NATO bombing in southern Afghanistan that local officials said had killed 40 civilians. A11

Democrats Divided on War
Democratic leaders and candidates are virtually unanimous in opposing President Bush's conduct of the war, and many advocate disengagement. But most are not calling for an immediate withdrawal of American forces or offering a vision of how postwar Iraq should look. A10

NATIONAL A12-17

Ruling Renews Debate Over Same-Sex Marriage
The divisive debate over same-sex marriage, which played a prominent role in 2004 campaigns but this year largely faded from view, erupted anew as President Bush and Republicans nationwide tried to use a court ruling in New Jersey to rally dispirited conservatives to the polls. A1

For Democrats in tight races, black voter turnout will be crucial to an Election Day victory. But there are worries among Democratic strategists in some states that blacks may not turn up at the polls in big enough numbers because of disillusionment over past elections. A1

Tax Delays for Storm Victims
The commissioner of Internal Revenue ordered his agency to delay collecting back taxes from Hurricane Katrina victims until after the Nov. 7 elections and the holiday season, saying he did so in part to avoid negative publicity. A1

4 Firefighters Killed in Blaze
Four firefighters were killed and one was seriously injured when an arson fire ripped through part of Southern California, destroying thousands of acres and forcing hundreds of residents to evacuate their homes. A12

Judge's Jail Visit Is Criticized
A special panel of the Washington State Supreme Court made up of nine substitute judges reprimanded one of the court's justices for visiting a facility that holds sexually violent predators. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Family Ties Help Kean In Senate Race, Poll Finds
Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican challenger for United States Senate in New Jersey, has capitalized on his father's reputation to offset voters' qualms about his inexperience, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Builders Cut Home Prices
Home builders, struggling to keep ahead in a weakening market, have cut prices to help sell their newly constructed houses, the latest government and industry statistics show. C1

Investigation of S.E.C.
The Securities and Exchange Commission will be the subject of a broad review by the investigative arm of Congress, the Government accountability Office. C1

Business Digest C2

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

St. Louis Is One Away
The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the Detroit Tigers, 5-4, in Game 4 of the World Series. The Cardinals can clinch their first title since 1982 with a victory in Game 5 tonight. D1

Crossword E34
Obituaries B10
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E27
Weather D8

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Real timetables for Iraq; compounding a political outrage; for New York comptroller.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ABORTION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); FIRES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); ARSON (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%); HURRICANES (61%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SUDAN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



649 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Don't Dent North Korea-China Trade 

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SANHE, China, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
At the isolated border crossing in this small Chinese town, no one noticed when North Korea conducted its nuclear test in an underground mine about 90 miles away. Nearly three weeks later, no one seems to have noticed the recent United Nations sanctions against North Korea, either.
 Truckers carrying goods into North Korea across the sludge-colored Tumen River say inspections are unchanged on the Chinese side. Customs agents rarely open boxes here or at two other border crossings in this mountainous region, truckers and private transport companies say.
Nor are any fences visible, like the barrier under construction near China's busiest border crossing at the city of Dandong. There were early reports that inspectors in Dandong were at least opening trucks for a look, but so far statistics and anecdotal reports in the Chinese news media indicate that, essentially, everything remains the same.
 What is visible here, though, is the growing and, in some ways, surprisingly complicated trade relationship between China and North Korea. China remains North Korea's most important aid donor and oil supplier, but, conversely, China is now importing growing amounts of coal and electricity from North Korea. Chinese entrepreneurs, meanwhile, are starting to buy shares in North Korean mining operations and, in one case, trying to gain access to the Sea of Japan by leasing a North Korean port as a potential shipping hub. 
 The upswing in Chinese economic activity -- which is already raising questions about whether the intent is more strategic than commercial -- is one of the reasons that China has sent mixed signals about how aggressive it will be in inspecting border trade to meet the United Nations sanctions. For now, at least, some truckers in this region say the only change in border inspections has come on the North Korean side, where customs agents are checking loads more carefully for items deemed contraband by Kim Jong-il's government. 
 ''We used to sit with North Koreans that we know and have a chat,'' said Jiang Zhuchun, a trucker waiting to cross into North Korea on Tuesday afternoon. ''But after the nuclear test, we are only allowed to sit alone in our trucks.''
 The United States has praised China for approving the sanctions against North Korea, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice used her visit to Beijing last week to emphasize the common desire to restart diplomatic talks on North Korea's nuclear program. China's leaders are said to be deeply angered over the nuclear test and have signaled they may take a harder line against their longtime ally. Last week, some banks in Dandong froze certain accounts and financial transactions with North Korea.
 But the question of inspections along the 866-mile border between China and North Korea is a different matter. The sanctions authorized countries to inspect cargo entering and leaving North Korea and barred the sale or transfer of material that can be used to make nuclear weapons. Yet the sanctions are still less than two weeks old, and some details have still not been worked out. For example, the sanctions ban luxury goods without defining them.
 The United States wants tightened border inspections by China as a tool for squeezing the North Korean economy and ensuring that North Korea cannot buy or sell nuclear materials. China is worried that destabilizing North Korea could begin an exodus of refugees and has resisted changing inspections. This week, with rumors swirling about a possible border crackdown, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said China intended to comply fully with the sanctions, but also said inspections along the border would remain ''normal.'' 
 The Yanbian Korean Autonomous Region, the name of the sprawling district that includes the Sanhe border checkpoint, is not the primary trade route between China and North Korea; Dandong, with its more direct route to Pyongyang, the North's capital, is by far the busiest. But the Yanbian area is wedged into a geopolitical hotspot where China, North Korea and Russia all come together. 
 In interviews and visits to three crossings from Yanbian into North Korea, truckers, transportation company agents, investors and others confirmed without exception that trade is continuing across the border much as it always has. Customs agents examine bills of lading but usually open shipments only when they are tipped in advance to someone trying to smuggle goods like beer or liquor without paying customs duties, several people said.
 ''No matter who you talk to, they will tell you there is not much difference,'' said Jin Lanzhu, whose trading company is one of the largest in the region. 
 On Wednesday morning inside the Chinese customs yard in the border city of Tumen, small groups of North Koreans, each wearing their mandatory pins with images of either North Korean leader Kim Jong-il or his father, Kim Il-sung, waited to cross the bridge. They had nylon sacks stuffed with shoes and clothes, television sets, a refrigerator. Some carried bags of rice.
 ''How many bags do you have?'' asked a female Chinese customs agent in a blue uniform. She looked them over and walked away without opening any. She did forbid the North Koreans to take several boxes of fruit because of a problem with worms. Then, the men began loading the sacks onto a flatbed truck operated by the customs office to carry smaller loads to the North Korean side. Two North Korean women complained to a local taxi driver that they had to pay 400 yuan, or about $50, for the service.
 ''They don't really check over here,'' one North Korean woman said of Chinese customs. ''They do on the North Korean side.''
 A similar scene unfolded later in the day at a smaller crossing in the dingy town of Kaishan, where the customs port is so small that trucks take a dirt road to a crumbling checkpoint. On Wednesday, a young soldier watched laborers load about 150 used televisions and boxes of medicine into a North Korean truck that had crossed the river to collect the shipment.
 ''I'm here for security,'' the soldier said.
 Trade between China and North Korea has grown rapidly in recent years -- as has North Korea's trade deficit with China, in part, because China no longer appears to be selling oil at a subsidized rate. China now accounts for almost 40 percent of North Korea's total foreign trade; bilateral trade has more than doubled to $1.1 billion in 2005 from $490 million in 1995. In Yanbian alone, trade with North Korea jumped 82 percent in 2004 and another 20 percent in 2005, according to a local newspaper account.
 Divining what the increased traffic says about the state of North Korea's economy is a subject of debate. New research and interviews in the Yanbian region suggest that North Korea, a country that regularly suffers blackouts, is now exporting growing amounts of coal, minerals and even electricity to China, which is hungry for energy and raw materials. In exchange, North Korea is no longer importing as much raw material and machinery as it had in the past. 
 Instead, North Korea is importing food, clothes, daily sundries, outdated televisions and appliances and, of course, oil. The trend could suggest that North Korea's recent experiments with private markets may be expanding, some analysts said. 
 A recent study by the Nautilus Institute, a San Francisco-based research group, used customs statistics to describe the trend, but also concluded that it might indicate that North Korea's nonmilitary manufacturing industries were in sharp decline. One Chinese investor in a North Korean coal mine agreed. ''They seemed to have stopped the factories,'' said the investor, who asked not to be identified. He said doing business with North Korea was very risky and cautioned that numerous Chinese businessmen had lost money. ''There are zero guarantees and protections.''
 Even so, Chinese entrepreneurs and companies, both private and state-owned, are starting to buy interests in North Korean mines to export raw materials. The amount of investment is not clearly defined, but different Chinese proposals call for building truck routes between inland trade centers in northeast China to the North Korean coast, according to Chinese media accounts.
 A Chinese property developer, Fan Yingsheng, told the Chinese news media that despite the nuclear test, he was still pursuing plans to develop the North Korean port of Rajin into a shipping center for goods from China. He said he would soon fly to Pyongyang to sign a final agreement.
 The flurry of Chinese activity has not gone unnoticed by South Korea and others in the region, analysts say. Like China, South Korea has resisted harsh economic sanctions and refused to shut down its own trade deals with North Korea in part because of concerns about a swift collapse of the North Korean government. But South Korea is also positioning itself, to some degree against China, to be the dominant player in the future of North Korea.
 China, meanwhile, has said the activity is not strategic positioning but natural economic outgrowth for a booming, entrepreneurial economy in need of resources. Li Dunqiu, a North Korea specialist with a research institute under China's State Council, or cabinet, recently wrote that ''laws of the market economy'' were the driving force in Chinese investment in North Korea.
 Along the border, it is easy to see how the daily traffic from China is a lifeline for North Korea. One woman from Yanbian said her family had recently come across to buy rice and other essentials. But Mr. Jin, the owner of the trading company, said charity was not at the essence of China's trade with North Korea.
 ''The business interest is the most important thing,'' he said. ''Helping them comes after that.'' Then, pausing to reflect on the potential and perils of trading with North Korea, he added: ''North Korea is just like China in the past. It is a blank sheet of paper. You can draw wherever you want to. The question is whether the paper is going to be there at all times for you to draw on.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Portions of the China-North Korea border remain porous. A Chinese guard watched as two men crossed into North Korea at Onsong. (Photo by Du Bin for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Map of China and North Korea border highlighting Sanhe: At Sanhe, truckers still cross with little problem into North Korea. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); COAL MINING (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); REFUGEES (78%); UNDERGROUND MINING (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (71%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Jim Yardley; Kim Jong-il

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) LIAONING, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (75%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) North Korea; China; North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



650 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: New York Isn't the World's Undisputed Financial Capital 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
At a black-tie event this summer, some of the world's most powerful bankers and business executives gathered for a toast: ''We are the international finance and business capital of the world, the world's greatest global financial center, without question,'' the mayor told the assembled crowd. 
 But that was not Michael R. Bloomberg talking. The city was not New York -- it was London.
Even as the Dow Jones industrial average reaches new highs and Wall Street companies report robust profits, by some measures New York's long-held crown as the financial capital of the world may be slipping. 
 London, whose lord mayor, David Brewer, made the summertime boast at the city's annual merchants and bankers dinner, has had a heady resurgence in banking and lending. In recent years, its stock market has attracted a growing number of companies that once would have sought to list in the United States. And London is drawing an increasing tide of hedge fund assets.
 Other financial centers are growing, too: Chicago will be the home of the world's largest derivatives market when the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade merge, while Hong Kong is poised to be the biggest market for initial public offerings this year, with today's pricing of the huge offering of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
 The possibility that New York is losing ground has raised alarms in Washington and in Mr. Bloomberg's office.
 ''There's a genuine recognition that we need to make some changes,'' said Laure Aubuchon, head of international business development for the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Winning financial business is ''so important to New York City,'' she said. The financial services industry makes up 9 percent of the city's work force and provides 31 percent of the tax base, she said.
 The rise of London has been particularly notable as a reflection of its geography. Some of the most rapidly developing markets and fastest-growing companies can be found in Asia and Russia, which are within time zones that can do business easily with London but not with New York.
 ''In the 1980s and 1990s, large transactions did not get done without the United States capital markets,'' said Michael Cole-Fontayn, a managing director with the Bank of New York in London. That is no longer true, he said.
 ''The European and Asian capital markets are becoming deeper and more liquid by the day,'' he said. ''You can get a $5 billion stock global depository receipt offering or a $10 billion privatization satisfied outside the United States S.E.C.-registered markets.''
 TMK, a Russian pipe manufacturer, hopes to raise $1 billion in a November public offering. The company was approached by the New York Stock Exchange but chose to list on the London Stock Exchange.
 London ''is the world's biggest financial center and very internationally flavored,'' Vladimir Shmatovich, the chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview. And, he said, London is a closer flight to Moscow.
 Of course, Wall Street banks dominate London and have benefited from doing business with the new wealth of Russia, Asia and the Middle East. But because the banks do a growing amount of business outside New York, the city misses out on some of the taxes, the financial services jobs and the jobs that support those jobs.
 Beyond its location, London is attracting investors and companies because of a perception that regulatory scrutiny is more burdensome in the United States than in London. At the same time, while London does not use the euro, that common currency has helped bring depth to the capital markets of Europe, benefiting London. 
 ''At the moment, people are still arguing New York versus London,'' said Shaun Springer, the head of Napier Scott, a headhunting firm based in London that specializes in trading jobs. In five years, he predicts, ''there will be a real, visible gap,'' with London taking the lead.
 So far, the only financial arena where New York is clearly being surpassed is initial public offerings. This year, through the end of September, companies raised $:17.9 billion ($33.2 billion) in initial public offerings on London's exchanges. In New York, initial public offerings raised $26.5 billion through September. By the end of 2006, more than $40 billion will be raised in Hong Kong, thanks to two oversize bank offerings. Hong Kong's leadership in public offerings is not expected to extend to 2007, when the battle between London and New York will be fiercer than ever.
 Other trends seem to favor London. Syndicated lending grew 54 percent in Europe in 2005, but just 15 percent in the United States, according to Thomson Financial. Hedge fund assets in Europe grew 80 percent from 2003 to 2005, versus 28 percent in the United States, according to International Financial Services London, which promotes British banking business.
 High oil prices have in the past meant a flood of money from the Middle East into the United States. But cash-rich Middle Eastern families and governments are now looking to invest in Europe or Asia -- through London or another financial center, rather than through New York. 
 Not surprisingly, there are few people in New York willing to acknowledge London's superiority.
 ''I laugh, because if you were to dial back to the late 1980s, Tokyo was going to rule the world,'' said Ms. Aubuchon of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''I would never underestimate the power of Americans, when they get annoyed at being put down, to come roaring back.'' 
 To assist that comeback, Mr. Bloomberg's office is spending $600,000 on a study by the McKinsey consulting firm on the issue.
 Many executives outside the United States say they could probably save them the time and trouble -- the biggest problem is that it has become just too forbidding to do business in New York. 
 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which imposed stricter rules on corporate controls, ''is just one problem of many,'' said Alan Yarrow, vice chairman of the German bank Dresdner Kleinwort, who is based in London. Others include the Patriot Act, the Department of Homeland Security and the perception that America does not welcome outsiders, he said. 
 ''Getting people into the country is becoming a problem,'' Mr. Yarrow said. ''You have to have a situation where clients can come and see you.''
 Many foreign companies and executives have a ''fear of the United States: of litigation, of Sarbanes-Oxley, of the reach of the S.E.C., of the disclosure requirements and penalties associated with false disclosure,'' said Mr. Cole-Fontayn of the Bank of New York.
 The New York markets, meanwhile, have not been lobbying hard overseas over these issues, some executives say.
 The London Stock Exchange ''came after us very aggressively and did a good job of selling themselves,'' said Christian Hogg, the chief executive of Chi-Med in Hong Kong, a Hutchison Whampoa division that began trading in May on London's small capitalization stock market division, AIM. 
 Nasdaq, however, never contacted the company, Mr. Hogg said.
 And companies pay more to list in the United States. A study by the consulting firm Oxera that was commissioned this summer by the City of London found that investment banks' underwriting fees for listing a company in Europe were about half those for listing in the United States. 
 But listing in London has had its challenges, Mr. Hogg added. Executives have to work hard to get brokers and analysts to notice their companies. ''Nothing is guaranteed on Day 1 on AIM. It requires a lot of money,'' he said.
 Company executives are not the only ones in finance choosing not to come to New York. Stricter entry rules after Sept. 11, 2001, mean that some of the world's banking talent that would have gravitated to New York is going elsewhere. 
 ''Just getting into America, even if you're British, is an issue,'' Mr. Springer of Napier Scott said. ''We've had candidates that arrived for an interview, were told they couldn't leave a room in the airport and were put on the next plane back,'' he said. Consequently, America is not experiencing the same explosion in specialized trading products that London is, he said. London, on the other hand, has a more open visa and work permit policy, he said. 
 Mark Warms, the global head of sales and marketing for FXall, a large foreign exchange platform for institutional customers, said, ''Certainly, you have to argue that London is the most culturally diverse financial center in the world.'' 
 London's talent pool may be international and its finance business growing, but newly arrived Wall Street bankers may be astonished by some of its local traditions: most of the city's bars, for example, close at 11 p.m., and most restaurants stop serving food around 10 p.m. Food delivery is still a rarity. Sending a FedEx package after 6 p.m. is difficult and the subway closes at midnight.
 Still, London's growing financial business has put the end to one British tradition that few will mourn: ''the food,'' said Stanley Fink, the former chief executive and chairman of the Man Group, the investment and hedge fund giant. London has gone from ''one of the poorer places in the world to eat to one of the best,'' he said.
 There has been an explosion in high-end dining in London. ''Over the last five years, London's upscale restaurant offering has grown, largely as a result of the strength'' of the financial district, said Iqbal Wahhab, the owner of Roast, a new restaurant, which uses only ingredients from Britain and features dishes like herring roe on toast. 
 In perhaps another sign of London's ascendancy, Mr. Wahhab said he was seriously considering expanding Roast -- to New York.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Canary Wharf, a financial district in London, which is enjoying a resurgence in banking and lending. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C6)
 The stock exchange in Hong Kong. The city is a rising financial center. (Photo by Paul Hilton/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); FUTURES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LABOR FORCE (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Derivatives (Financial Transactions); Stocks and Bonds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Banks and Banking; Futures and Options Trading; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (82%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (70%); CME GROUP INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (82%) Chicago Mercantile Exchange; Chicago Board of Trade

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (82%); BK (NYSE) (70%); CME (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (68%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (76%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (52%) New York City; London (Eng); Chicago (Ill); Hong Kong; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Russia

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006



651 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: In Credit Card Rates, Trust but Verify

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONE thing I take pride in -- actually I cling to desperately as proof that I can manage our finances -- is that we pay our credit card bill in full every month.
 That's why I was shocked last month to discover that I had put the bill away in its little ''to pay later'' place, and then forgot it.
I was even more shocked when I saw the $39 late fee and $70.88 finance charge on our October bill.
 Our card issuer, Citibank, agreed to waive the late fee (always a good idea to call and ask), but I was still on the hook for the finance charge. 
 Like most Americans, in a pinch, I could probably tell you -- or know where to find -- the interest rate, credit line and minimum payment due on our credit card. But I wouldn't be able to say what my bank charges in late or over-limit fees or how it calculates various finance charges.
 Looking on the back of my bill is not much help. Under ''Information About Your Account, Balance Subject to Finance Charge,'' it said: ''We calculate periodic finance charges separately for each balance subject to different terms (e.g. Standard Purch, Standard Adv. and each numbered Offer).''
 Of course.
 If I read on, I get two long dense paragraphs of small type explaining the various calculation methods. 
 No wonder the Government Accountability Office, which released a report last month on exactly this situation (''Credit Cards: Increased Complexity in Rates and Fees Heightens Need for More Effective Disclosures to Consumers''), said information about terms and conditions from the largest credit card issuers was often ''written well above the eighth-grade level at which about half of U.S. adults read.''
 Therefore, the report's authors wrote, ''interviews with 112 cardholders indicated that many failed to understand key terms or conditions that could affect their costs, including when they would be charged for late payments or what actions could cause issuers to raise rates.''
 The way fees are calculated has evolved since cards were first introduced in 1950 with the Diners Club charge card. Being a charge, not a credit card, the customer had to pay it off in full at the end of the month.
 By the end of that decade, Bank of America began offering a credit card. Unlike a charge card, customers could pay off the balance over time. And the plastic generation was born.
 According to the G.A.O. report, from 1980 to 2005, the amount Americans charged on their credit cards grew to more than $1.8 trillion from an estimated $69 billion annually.
 Even more staggering, consumers now have more than 690 million credit cards, or 6 for every household.
 It also noted that the increased use of credit cards has contributed to the expansion of household debt; in 2004, the average American household had about $2,200 in credit card debt, up from about $1,000 in 1992.
 Up until about 1990, most credit cards had fixed interest rates of about 20 percent and few fees. But in the last decade and a half, issuers have grown more willing to give cards to higher-risk customers than they were in the past.
 Interest rates, especially for customers with good credit histories, have also dropped substantially below 20 percent.
 But at the same time, financial institutions have developed a complicated system of rate increases and fees.
 The report said that in analyzing 28 popular cards, it found that a cardholder could face as many as three different interest rates, depending on the transaction. For example, the rate on a purchase differs from that on a cash advance. 
 Although almost half of cardholders pay off their accounts in full every month, the report noted, 35 percent of all accounts were assessed late fees last year and 13 percent were assessed over-limit fees. 
 And late fees are now more costly than they were 10 years ago; the report stated that the average late fee was $34, up from $13 in 1995.
 A consumer might also have to pay a higher interest rate -- some credit card companies charge over 30 percent -- as a penalty for tardy payments.
 I did not notice our increase until I spoke to Tamara Draut, director of the economic opportunity program at the nonprofit research institute Demos, and she suggested that I check my annual percentage rate on the bill after the late fee.
 Sure enough, it had jumped from around 15 percent to 19.2 percent.
 But there was no information on how long it would stay at the higher rate. So, following Ms. Draut's instructions, I called Citi Cards to check. Although I'm the secondary cardholder (my husband is the primary), I had never had a problem obtaining account information by phone.
 This time however, when I asked the ''service professional'' how long the interest rate would remain raised, she told me she had to talk to my husband. Apparently that was more private than my balance.
 Mark called. His service professional (named Angel), checked and told him she would bring it down to 16.2 percent starting immediately. 
 ''Always make a call,'' Ms. Draut said. ''Always look over your bill carefully. If you see a change, get in touch right away.''
 The bad news, she said, is that ''the creditor has all the power.'' Although solicitation letters offer certain rates and fees, the financial institution issuing the card is free to change them at any time.
 And card issuers can also increase your interest rate based on your payment history with other creditors, she said. For instance, if you fall behind on your Macy's account, you could see a sudden jump in your credit card interest rate.
 Tracey Mills, a spokeswoman for the American Bankers Association, a trade organization, said fewer than half of credit cards had such a feature, but she noted that banks had the option because the holder may become more of a risk.
 ''You may have been a great credit risk when you filled out the application, but it's like it becomes a new loan every month,'' Ms. Mills said.
 The problem is, she said, that financial institutions are governed by strict laws stating how they must disclose information, and are at risk of a lawsuit if they oversimplify.
 For that reason, her association supports changes to the regulation governing disclosures for consumer credit.
 The Federal Reserve Board is behind that regulation, known as Regulation Z, and began a comprehensive review of it in 2004. It is the first such overall assessment since 1980.
 The Fed is now in the process of looking over comment letters it received from the public.
 ''The Federal Reserve Board is taking a smart way to approach this,'' Ms. Mills said. ''They're looking at it from a consumer, rather than a legal, standpoint.''
 Ms. Draut, however, argues that the problem is not simply with helping consumers understand the fees; the system itself needs to be changed.
 The problem, she said, is that Congress has not stepped in to fill the gap.
 Her organization and other advocacy groups would like to see what they call a Borrower's Security Act that ''would restore the balance of power in the lending relationship,'' she said.
 Such a measure should, among other things: limit rate increases to 10 percent above the cardholder's original rate and prohibit credit card companies from raising a cardholder's interest rate based solely on payments to other creditors.
 Ms. Draut said, however, that she was doubtful that Congress would pass the legislation in the near future. Such bills have been introduced over the years, she said, ''and they tend to languish in committee.''
 Consumers can arm themselves with as much information as possible. Web sites including www.cardweb.com offer a wealth of data, including comparisons of credit cards and a calculator to determine how long it will take to pay off your credit card debt.
 One thing I've learned from this painful lesson is to always question a penalty.
 Another is that it is a really bad idea to set aside the bill and forget it. 
 My Citibank service professional did suggest I might want to pay the bill over the phone -- but that costs $14.95 extra.
 For that kind of money, I could charge an extra lunch on my card.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by James Best)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); WRITERS (62%) Credit and Money Cards; Interest Rates; Fines (Penalties)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DINERS CLUB INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Alina Tugend

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



652 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Eggs, More Baskets In the Incubator

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif. 

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Google announced that it planned to install a large solar energy system on the roof of its headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. ''Green tech'' is all the rage right now in Silicon Valley, with venture money pouring into environmental start-ups, and hip technology companies falling all over themselves to show their earth-friendly bona fides.
 But that's not why the Google announcement caught my eye. No, what intrigued me was the company that was building its solar system: EI Solutions, a division of Energy Innovations. And Energy Innovations is -- are you sitting down for this? -- an Idealab company.
Idealab? The original ''Internet incubator'' founded in the mid-1990s by the charismatic, hyperkinetic Bill Gross? The one that flew so high during the Internet bubble -- with companies like eToys and Eve.com and PetSmart.com -- only to crash and burn once boom turned to bust? The one that was sued in 2002 by some of its most high-profile investors, including T. Rowe Price, which asserted that its money had been misused and wanted it back? Yes, that Idealab. 
 We haven't heard much about Internet incubators lately -- and with good reason. Many of them no longer exist. Several that went public during the boom, like CMGI, now sport anemic stock prices, and aren't really incubators anymore. The essential business model of an incubator -- that a company could exist purely to create start-up companies -- is now viewed largely as bubble folly.
 But Mr. Gross and Idealab, it turns out, are still very much with us. Idealab is still a company that exists to create start-ups, most of which begin life as a glimmer in Mr. Gross's fertile brain. The companies it starts aren't always about the Internet anymore, though some are. Mr. Gross has started a company that is making an affordable 3-D printer, which it hopes to bring to market next year. Another Idealab company sells proprietary robotics technology to supermarkets and toy companies. Yet a third, Spin.com, is an Internet search engine in which advertisers pay only if customers take an action, rather than simply click to a site. (Mr. Gross is the inventor of the ''paid search'' idea that Google went on to perfect.) 
 When you visit Idealab now, you still walk into the kind of cool, wide-open office in Old Town Pasadena that screams dot-com. But the new Idealab also has a machine shop. Most of all, Idealab and its founder have a seriousness of purpose, a sense of mission and a humility that were once largely lacking. Which perhaps explains why, though it's still too early to say for sure, Idealab is an incubator that may actually wind up succeeding.
 ''You gotta see these pictures,'' Mr. Gross said, his voice rising happily. ''They just came in this morning.''
 We were deep into a lengthy interview, and now, finally, he was getting excited -- the way I remember him pretty much all the time during the bubble. For much of the interview, we had been talking about the bad times after the bust arrived. His tone had been somber, grim even, as he recalled the painful past.
 But this -- this was fun! The pictures had been sent, via e-mail, from China. China is where the Energy Innovations solar devices are to be manufactured. And the pictures showed several Energy Innovations executives, alongside a handful of Chinese workers, actually making the first of its solar products -- using a radical new approach to solar energy that Mr. Gross hopes will finally give solar the economics it needs to become a viable energy source.
 ''Right now,'' he explained, ''a kilowatt of electricity generated from coal costs 9 cents. For solar, it's 27 cents before government rebates, which cuts it in half. We are trying to get it below 9 cents, without any rebates. We're halfway there.'' The product itself is like no solar panel you've ever seen -- tons of little mirrors that move with the sun and concentrate its power, allowing solar power to be generated much less expensively than it is now. It is an amazing feat of engineering ingenuity.
 As Mr. Gross tells it now, Idealab was never originally intended to be only about Internet companies. But in the 1990s, it was so easy to start an Internet company that it became the path of least resistance. Idealab began churning out a company a month with a kind of indiscriminate glee. And the companies themselves took off like rockets -- eToys had a $7.8 billion market capitalization on its first day as a public company -- allowing Mr. Gross, and those around him, to believe they could do no wrong. 
 We all know now that the bubble ended in March 2000, but it took Mr. Gross much longer than that to face reality. Idealab had raised $1 billion from investors in anticipation of an initial public offering, and had wildly expanded its operations. Even as the stocks in its public companies were collapsing -- eToys, you'll recall, eventually collapsed -- Mr. Gross kept hoping against hope that it would turn around.
 Finally, at the beginning of 2001, he could no longer avoid the truth. There would be no public offering. Shockingly, despite having raised all that money, Idealab was down to about $40 million in cash. With its extravagant spending habits, Idealab would be out of cash in two months unless it started changing. Belatedly, it shut down struggling companies, and closed its branch offices. Mr. Gross had to lay off more than half Idealab's staff.
 There was a lot of soul-searching, and anguish over the mistakes he had made. But not for a moment did Mr. Gross think about liquidating Idealab. One of his greatest strengths -- and greatest weaknesses -- is his eternal optimism. That is what led him to foolishly start so many companies during the boom, but it is also what allowed him to carry on during the hard times. He never lost his belief that his model of company-creation could work -- if, that is, he could learn to bring his own frenetic idea-generating brain under control.
 So, no longer would Idealab start a company a month. ''We needed a much higher bar for the kind of companies we would create,'' he said. ''We needed to have protectable intellectual property. Our companies had to be in growing industries, with high margins -- and protectable margins. That was something we never used to think about. EToys had great customer service, but it had no protectable intellectual property. Anybody could do it.''
 And finally, Mr. Gross said, the companies he wanted to start had to be able to make a real difference in the world. You could argue, I suppose, that to make such a grandiose statement suggests that Mr. Gross and his colleagues were still afflicted with at least some of the hubris of the bubble days. But Mr. Gross argues that building a company requires so much effort, and entails heartbreak, that it just didn't seem to be worth it unless Idealab companies were going to do something that mattered.
 One of the first companies to emerge from this new focus was Energy Innovations. As I listened to Mr. Gross talk about it, I realized that it probably saved Idealab. Mr. Gross has long had a passion for solar energy, and because he is an engineer -- a graduate of CalTech -- he deeply understood the issues involved. For the first time in Idealab's history, he made himself the company's chief executive, and the company began to consume the majority of his time and energy.
 Which, of course, meant that he wasn't spending nearly as much time pursuing all the other ideas that poured out of his head -- Energy Innovations mattered too much to him, and he didn't want to be distracted. He also needed to figure out how to keep it up and running when Idealab had zero ability to raise money. Thanks in part to the bust, and in part to the lawsuit, which was finally settled in 2004, Idealab had to hobble along with cash it could generate on its own. ''We sold a small company to AOL,'' he recalled. ''Another to eBay. $6 million here. $10 million there.'' 
 Then some of his older companies began to recover, especially Overture.com, the original paid search engine. Idealab began selling some of its stock, and by 2004, when Yahoo bought Overture for $1.6 billion, it had generated some $300 million for Idealab. Suddenly, things were looking up again.
 Today, Idealab has just under $100 million, which gives Mr. Gross plenty of running room now that the company's costs are under control. More than that, though, venture capitalists are investing again in Idealab companies. Energy Innovations has raised $50 million in outside capital, and when I spoke to Erik Straser of the venture firm Mohr Davidow Ventures, which is the lead outside investor, he couldn't have sounded more excited about the company's prospects -- or about Bill Gross. ''Bill is one of the best idea generators I've ever seen,'' he said. ''But he also has an understanding of his strengths and weaknesses. People can grow and learn, even people as highly intelligent as Bill.''
 Howard Morgan, an Idealab director and longtime friend of Mr. Gross, said: ''He's become humbler. There is no question about it. He realizes that there are limitations to what he can accomplish.''
 Mr. Gross prefers journalism that offers lessons to readers, and as our interview drew to a close he struggled to find one. He talked about being more rigorous when ideas popped into his head, about the ups and downs of entrepreneurship, about being willing to persevere with an idea that you believed in. But none struck him as satisfactory.
 Later, though, as we walked back to his office from dinner, he said: ''We have a lot more wisdom now. I wish we hadn't had to go through what we did to acquire that wisdom. But maybe that was the only way.''
 It usually is.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Talking Business column on Saturday about Idealab, an Internet incubator, misstated the name of a search-engine company it founded. It is Snap.com -- not Spin.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Gross invented the ''paid search'' idea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); STARTUPS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); TOYS & GAMES (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Energy Efficiency; Solar Energy

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); IDEALAB CO (71%); PETSMART INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Energy Innovations; EI Solutions; Idealab

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); PETM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS541940 VETERINARY SERVICES (56%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (56%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (89%) Joe Nocera; Bill Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



653 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Hindsight Advice on Paying for College: Buy Stocks in 1982

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
It now takes more than a year of work for the average American to earn enough income to pay for a year at a private college, where costs have risen more rapidly than inflation for 26 consecutive years. 
 But by one measure, American colleges cost less than they used to. Those who plan on paying for their children's education by selling part of their stock portfolios now need to sell less than half as many shares as their parents would have had to sell a quarter-century ago.
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his new blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.
The College Board, a research organization, released its latest study of average college costs this week. For the current school year, the average for a private four-year college was $30,367, while the average cost for a public college in the United States is $12,796. Both figures were up almost 6 percent from the previous year and outstripped gains in the overall rate of inflation.
 Those figures include tuition, room and board, but exclude the cost of books, which has been rising rapidly. And they are averages that significantly understate the cost of top universities, where total costs are over $40,000 per academic year.
 The accompanying charts show the annual costs for the last 30 years in three ways. First, the figures show the costs for public and private colleges in 2006 dollars, thereby adjusting for inflation.
 The second chart shows the annual cost of public and private colleges as a multiple of the average pretax weekly earnings of workers in American industry, as reported by the Labor Department. Thirty years ago, private college costs were equal to 21 weeks of average pay. Now the figure is 53, or more than the average worker earns in a year. The public college cost, expressed that way, has more than doubled from 10 weeks to 21 weeks.
 Sandy Baum, a senior policy analyst at the College Board and a professor of economics at Skidmore College, hates to see such figures published. ''What worries me is that people throw up their hands and say, 'I cannot pay that,' '' she said, adding that people with average income usually can get financial aid to enable their children to attend college for far less than the posted prices.
 At private colleges, College Board figures show the average student now pays about 70 percent of the posted price, down from 73 percent in the late 1990s.
 The final chart shows the cost of college relative to stock prices. It is expressed in units of the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, and based on the closing price each September. Back in 1982, the S.& P. was at 120, and you would have needed 59 baskets of S.& P. stocks (akin to an index fund today) to buy a year at the average private college. Now, with the S.& P. above 1,300, such a year costs just 23 baskets of stocks.
 For the wealthy with lots of financial assets, college costs less than it used to. For those who depend on their jobs for income, the opposite is true.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Are U.S. College Costs Up? It Depends''College costs have risen steadily over the last 30 years, relative to either inflation or wages. But they are not up as much as the stock market, meaning that parents who pay for college by cashing in stocks may face less strain than they did. Figures include tuition, room and board.Graphs track the following for private and public schools since 1980:Annual costs measured in 2006 dollarsAnnual costs measured in equivalent weeks of workAnnual costs as a multiple of the S.& P. 500-stock indexFigures for workweeks are multiples of average weekly incomes in U.S. private industry, in September of each academic year.Figures for S.& P. units show annual college costs as a multiple of S.& P. 500-stock index, in September of each academic year.(Sources by College Board [college costs]
Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics [weekly incomes]
 Bloomberg Financial Markets [S.& P. 500])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BONDS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INDEX FUNDS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (57%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



654 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: A G.O.P. Redoubt Upstate Suddenly Seems Less Sturdy

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: WATKINS GLEN, N.Y., Oct. 26 

 BODY:
This picturesque corner of southwestern New York, with its rugged terrain sheltered by mountains and dotted with lakes, is as red as the blue state of New York gets. 
 Republicans have outnumbered Democrats here since the Republican Party's founding in 1854. Two years ago, President Bush won 56 percent of the vote in this area's 29th Congressional District, the biggest share of any district in the state.
But as the midterm elections approach, 2004 increasingly seems like a long time ago. The region's freshman Republican congressman, John R. Kuhl Jr., 63, who goes by Randy, faces a spirited challenge from a Democratic newcomer, Eric Massa, 47, a retired Navy commander who disagrees with the incumbent on most issues, from the war to immigration to health care. 
 In recent weeks, the Republican Party has stepped up efforts to safeguard Mr. Kuhl's seat, which has long seemed comfortably secure. Last month, Vice President Dick Cheney flew to Rochester for a fund-raiser for Mr. Kuhl. Laura Bush is scheduled to campaign for him in the town of Greece, near Rochester, on Saturday, just 10 days before elections nationwide that have the potential to shift control of one or both houses of Congress to the Democrats. 
 Mr. Massa, meanwhile, has stepped up fund-raising efforts, with noteworthy success. He raised $171,000 from Sept. 30 to Oct. 18, or nearly three times as much as Mr. Kuhl, who collected $65,000, according to the Federal Election Commission. As of Oct. 18, Mr. Massa had about $341,000 left in the bank, about $108,000 more than Mr. Kuhl, according to the commission.
 ''Frankly, a lot of Republicans, especially the traditional ones, feel betrayed,'' said Bob Lonsberry, a conservative talk radio host on WHAM-AM (1180) in Rochester. ''They don't feel the party is fighting for their values.''
 In Mr. Kuhl and Mr. Massa, voters here will have a clear choice.
 Mr. Kuhl is a low-key, affable lawyer-turned-politician who served for 24 years as a New York assemblyman and senator, running unopposed several times, before being elected to Congress in 2004. 
 Since then, he says, he has visited all of the district's 145 communities at least twice.
 Mr. Kuhl often speaks of his close relationship with his constituents, and reminds voters of the state and federal dollars he has brought to their hometowns. He likes to say that he went to Washington to ''change the system.'' 
 Mr. Massa is an energetic campaigner with an electrifying speaking style, taken to moving his hands and stomping his feet for emphasis. He served in Beirut, Bosnia and the Persian Gulf during his 24 years in the Navy and worked on the staff of the House Armed Services Committee. He left that job to work for Gen. Wesley K. Clark's presidential campaign in New Hampshire.
 He is a cancer survivor who supports universal health care, while Mr. Kuhl wants reforms to reduce Medicare and Medicaid costs. 
 Mr. Kuhl says the United States must stay in Iraq to held build a democracy, while Mr. Massa favors dividing Iraq into Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish regions, followed by a gradual withdrawal of American troops. 
 ''I'm not a politician. I'm an old sailor,'' Mr. Massa said on Wednesday, before he sat down to talk to a group of teachers and veterans at a local sports bar. 
 ''At one point in my life, I was a Republican,'' he said. ''Now, I'm a registered Democrat. I didn't leave the Republican Party; it ran away from me. And because I have experience on both sides of the aisle, I'm bilingual, and bringing that to Congress is what's going to be a major factor to allow me to work with all members.'' 
 The 29th district of New York is about as big as the state of Connecticut and is largely agricultural. A budding tourism industry caters to wine and racing fans alike. The track here plays host to a leg of the Nascar series.
 ''This is a district of small towns and rural counties tied together with a set of communities where people lead a more cosmopolitan lifestyle,'' said Gerald Gamm, chair of the political science department at the University of Rochester. ''But for the most part, this is strong Republican territory, where people believe in balanced budgets, in a government that doesn't meddle in their affairs and uses force responsibly and only if necessary.
 ''These days,'' Professor Gamm added, ''this is a place filled with discontent.''
 The economy of upstate New York, which crashed long ago and is still on its knees, is a leading concern, but also weighing heavily on voters' minds are immigration and health care reform, taxes and the war in Iraq, according to interviews with about a dozen farmers, teachers, veterans, firefighters and small-business owners this past week. All expressed disappointment with the Republican Party and President Bush.
 Mr. Kuhl has run into this frustration on the campaign trail. In a meeting on Tuesday with about 60 farmers, who rely heavily on Mexican immigrants to harvest their crops, he heard an earful. 
 The farmers were upset at Congress -- and disappointed in Mr. Kuhl -- for approving an immigration bill that is heavy on enforcement, but does not provide for a guest-worker program that they say would solve their labor-shortage problems. President Bush signed the bill into law on Thursday. 
 ''There's a big misunderstanding down in Washington that the immigrants we have here are taking jobs away, but these people, they're the only ones willing to do the work,'' thundered Jeff Morris, who grows wine grapes on 110 acres of land just outside this village in the Finger Lakes region.
 ''They're the best thing we've got going for us, and they're fundamental to our survival,'' he added.
 Mr. Kuhl told the farmers that he had been convinced that a such a guest worker program might, indeed, make sense.
 ''The timing is right, from my perspective, to move on a legal, temporary work force for agriculture,'' Mr. Kuhl said in an interview after the meeting.
 An analysis published on Wednesday in the Evans-Novak Political Report, a newsletter edited by Robert D. Novak, the conservative columnist, rated the race as leaning Democrat, while the nonpartisan Cook Political Report said on the same day that the district was leaning Republican.
 ''The big risk for Kuhl is, are traditional Republicans so ticked off that they're going to sit out this election?'' said Mr. Lonsberry, the radio host, whose program has a solid, devoted audience throughout the district. 
 ''To me,'' he added, ''this election is going to come down to whether a certain number of these Republicans will stay home and the Democrats, who are invigorated by the Massa campaign, will show up to vote en masse.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Massa, a retired Navy commander and a Democratic Congressional candidate, speaking to a gathering at a sports bar in Watkins Glen.
 Representative John R. Kuhl Jr., who goes by Randy, with Jeff Morris, who grows grapes and other crops, and Nancy Fulkerson, a winery owner. (Photographs by Bill Wingell for The New York Times) Map of New York highlighting 29th Congressional District: The 29th Congressional District has been Republican territory for decades, but Democrats are now showing surprising strength.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); NAVIES (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); IMMIGRATION (54%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Attacks on Police; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN R KUHL JR (92%); ERIC MASSA (90%); DICK CHENEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Cara Buckley; James A (Police Officer) Rector; Eric Hines; Fernanda Santos; John R Jr (Rep) Kuhl; Eric Massa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (79%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



655 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: For Gay Couples, Ruling Has a Cash Value

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
The New Jersey Supreme Court granted gay couples the same rights as married couples this week, leaving it to the State Legislature whether to call their partnerships marriages or civil unions. 
 But for Cynthia and Lucy Vandenberg, the landmark ruling is also about another M-word: money.
The Vandenbergs, who have been partners for 12 years, have been forced to open their checkbooks repeatedly over the years to pay thousands of dollars in taxes on health benefits and for legal transactions that married couples rarely face.
 There was the $1,500 to change their surnames, for instance, the $1,400 or so in taxes they paid annually for additional health benefits, and the $1,000 they spent so one could adopt the biological child of the other.
 ''For all of this, you need to hire an attorney, or you find out the hard way,'' said Lucy Vandenberg, 37, the director of the state's Council on Affordable Housing. 
 Now they wonder how the court's decision will affect their next child, a son Lucy is carrying. Will Cynthia Vandenberg have to pay to adopt him?
 The court gave the State Legislature 180 days to amend New Jersey's marriage laws to allow same-sex couples to marry, or to create a parallel system such as a civil union to provide them with all the rights of married couples. 
 In their decision, the justices made it clear that they understood ''the social indignities and economic difficulties'' gay couples have faced. 
 ''Without the benefits of marriage, some plaintiffs have had to endure the expensive and time-consuming process of cross-adopting each other's children and effectuating legal surname changes,'' the court said.
 Other ''economic disadvantages,'' the court added, included ''paying excessive health insurance premiums because employers did not have enough to provide coverage to domestic partners, not having a right to 'family leave' time, and suffering adverse inheritance tax consequences.'' 
 The Vandenbergs, who live in Mill Hill, a gentrifying neighborhood in downtown Trenton, have formed a family with another gay couple, John Hatch, 44, and David Henderson, 48, who live a block and a half away and have been together 18 years. 
 In a 20-page parental contract signed by all four of them, Mr. Hatch and Mr. Henderson each agreed to be the biological father of one of the Vandenbergs' children, to give up his parental rights so the biological mother's partner could adopt the child, and to share in parenting responsibilities.
 In other words, a contractually constructed partnership of four adults to raise the children.
 Their daughter, Devin, who is almost 2, calls Lucy ''Mama,'' Cynthia ''Mommy,'' Mr. Hatch ''Daddy'' and Mr. Henderson ''Dad.'' Devin spends most of her time at the Vandenbergs', though as she gets older she will stay with Mr. Hatch and Mr. Henderson on Tuesday nights and weekends.
 They say some straight couples they know envy the arrangement. ''It's great having more adults around,'' Lucy Vandenberg said. 
 Mr. Henderson, a real estate developer, said so many areas of law involve marriage that it is hard for him to imagine a new legal system that would provide equal protection for him and his family. 
 If the New Jersey Legislature refuses to approve a same-sex marriage law, he said, ''it scares me that they could ever actually create some parallel system that was truly equal. Is separate ever equal?''
 During an interview with the family, Cynthia Vandenberg, 43, who stays home with Devin, asked Mr. Hatch whether he and Mr. Henderson would marry, should the New Jersey Legislature agree to same-sex marriage. 
 ''You wouldn't go to Las Vegas?'' she asked, then stopped herself. ''I mean Atlantic City?'' 
 No, he said, he fantasizes about a celebration in nearby Mill Hill Park.
 All four drove to a rally in Montclair on Wednesday night after the court handed down its decision. Also there was Whitney Pillsbury-Clarke, 37, who lives in South Orange with his partner, John Pillsbury-Clarke, 41, and the three children they took in as foster children and later adopted.
 ''They'd give us the kids, they wouldn't even blink,'' he said, referring to the State of New Jersey. ''But we were not good enough to get married. That's always burned us.''
 He described a wall in their house with the various validations of their commitment. 
 ''There's our certificate of domestic partnership in New York City, a commitment ceremony certificate from the Metropolitan Community Church, and a domestic partnership certificate from New Jersey we got two years ago,'' he said.
 As he spoke, his children, Sabrina, 5; Caitlin, 4; and Dylan, 2, piled in and out of a double stroller and skillfully negotiated the sharing of a bag of bread. 
 ''And now maybe there will be a civil union, and eventually, a marriage certificate,'' he said, adding that he would like to see federally recognized marriage, so his family could move to any state.
 ''We'll probably need more wall space,'' he said.
 Looming somewhere beyond the Legislature's decision is the question of how other states will treat New Jersey's same-sex couples. The United States Constitution does not require states to recognize marriages from other states, said Andrew Koppelman, a law professor at Northwestern University and the author of ''Same Sex, Different States.'' 
 ''No court in American history has ever so held,'' he said.
 As Mr. Hatch said, ''Domestic partnership is pretty good when you're in New Jersey, but it has no benefit when you're not.''
 And there are other legal questions that have yet to be resolved. For instance, if a same-sex couple lives in New Jersey, would both partners be eligible for health care benefits under a plan offered by a New York company where one of them works? 
 Debra E. Guston, a Glen Rock lawyer with several gay and lesbian clients, including the Vandenbergs, said she suspected that many thorny legal issues would arise before a new law was in place.
 ''I'm sure there'll be a partner who passes away during these six months, and the survivor has to deal with whether or not they're exempt from the estate tax,'' she said.
 Already, one of Ms. Guston's clients, a schoolteacher in West Paterson, may be helped by the ruling. The teacher's school board had refused to extend benefits to her partner, but will probably have to reconsider, after the Supreme Court decision.
 ''It certainly has accelerated the discussion,'' Ms. Guston said.
 Alicia Heath-Toby, 43, of Newark, one of the plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case, spoke at the Montclair rally, summing up her desire to have the same marital rights as straight people, and to have her love described in the same terms -- in legal documents, in daily conversation, on insurance forms.
 ''No longer is it O.K. to check the 'other' box -- if I have to check the 'other' box one more time. '' she said, as the cheering crowd drowned out the rest of her sentence.
 '' 'Other' is no longer acceptable,'' she added. ''Let us as a state be able to say, I am more than an 'other.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lucy, left, and Cynthia Vandenberg, and David Henderson, top left, and John Hatch all share the responsibilities of raising Devin, who is almost 2 years old. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Devin Vandenberg spends most her time with her two mothers. As she gets older, she will spend Tuesday nights and weekends with her fathers. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); GAY PARENTING (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); FAMILY (78%); SAME SEX PARENTAL RIGHTS (78%); ESTATE TAX (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); PARENTING (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (62%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%)

PERSON: Tina Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



656 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

The Cardinals Win the Series, With a Little Help
Aided by yet another error by a Detroit Tigers pitcher, the St. Louis Cardinals took their 10th World Series title last night, winning 4-2 in front of a delirious crowd in their home park, Busch Stadium. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

U.S. and Iraq Reiterate Goals
With recent events in Iraq causing strains between the Bush administration and the Iraqi government, the two governments issued a statement through the American Embassy in Baghdad renewing their commitment to work together for peace and security. PAGE A8

End of the Line for Taurus
The last Taurus rolled off of Ford's assembly line yesterday, the end of a model that revolutionized the way that cars were developed in Detroit. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Housing Slide Cools Economy
The housing market's decline cast a chill over the economy, data for the third quarter showed. But most economists think a recession is unlikely. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Campaigning's Negatives
In the Virginia Senate race, the Republican incumbent drew attention to sexually explicit passages in novels his challenger wrote. PAGE A10

Wal-Mart said it had cut ties with a prominent Republican strategist who helped create a provocative campaign advertisement. PAGE A11 

THIS WEEKEND

Play: 8 Days With Parcells
The Times's sports magazine looks at Bill Parcells of the Dallas Cowboys and the addictive yet unsatisfying life of a football coach.

Intimations of Mortality
In ''The Lay of the Land,'' Frank Bascombe, the Everyman hero of two of Richard Ford's earlier novels, is 55 and struggling with the overwhelming facts of illness, politics and family. BOOK REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (67%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); SPORTS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DALLAS COWBOYS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



657 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

U.S. and Iraq Issue Renewal of Commitment
With recent events in Iraq causing strains between the Bush administration and the Iraqi government, the two governments issued a statement through the American Embassy in Baghdad renewing their commitment to work together. A8

A Halliburton subsidiary that has been subjected to numerous investigations for billions of dollars of contracts it has received for work in Iraq has systematically misused federal rules to withhold basic information on its practices from American officials, a federal oversight agency said. 
 A8

Iran Expands Nuclear Work
Iran has begun to enrich uranium in a second network of centrifuges, in defiance of a United Nations Security Council demand that it halt its nuclear program, an Iranian news agency reported. A7

Eastern Sudan Crisis Ignored
While there are an estimated 25,000 aid workers in Darfur, few outside organizations are paying attention to the crisis in eastern Sudan. A3

Pre-election Violence in Congo
The prelude to the runoff presidential election in Congo became increasingly edgy, as United Nations forces rescued a politician who had been kidnapped by rivals a day after several people were killed in a prison riot in Kinshasa. A7

NATIONAL A9-12; 16

Corporate America Ready To Work With Democrats
Corporate America is already thinking beyond Election Day, increasing its share of last-minute donations to Democrats and quietly devising strategies to work with Democrats if they win control of Congress. A1

The bitterly contested Virginia Senate race took an even nastier turn when the Republican incumbent, George Allen, drew attention to sexually explicit passages from novels written years ago by his Democratic challenger, Jim Webb. A10

Retailer Cuts Ties to Strategist
Wal-Mart said it had cut ties with a prominent Republican strategist who helped create a Republican television commercial mocking Representative Harold E. Ford Jr. of Tennessee, who is running for the United States Senate. A11

Ex-White House Aide Sentenced
A former White House budget official, David H. Safavian, who became entangled in the criminal investigation of the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, was sentenced to 18 months in prison for lying about his relationship to Mr. Abramoff. A9

Catholics Settle Abuse Case
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles and a Catholic religious order agreed to pay $10 million to settle claims made by seven victims of clergy sexual abuse, lawyers for the parties involved said. A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Bloomberg Lends Aid To Lieberman Campaign
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut is using a secret weapon in his battle for re-election without the backing of the Democratic Party: a sophisticated operation to turn out voters, courtesy of Mayor Bloomberg of New York. A1

Beliefs B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Economy Remains Resilient
The housing market's slump slowed economic growth in the third quarter to 1.6 percent, but evidence of a decline in inflation coupled with vigorous consumer spending suggests a recession is unlikely. C1

Business Digest C2

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

Cardinals Win World Series
The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the Detroit Lions, 4-2, in Game 5 of the World Series. It was the first World Series championship for St. Louis since 1982.D1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Conserving that compassion; no taxes until after the election; building better citizens; preparations for a flu pandemic.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B17
Crossword B16
Obituaries A13
TV Listings B18
Weather C10

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the News Summary on Saturday misstated the name of the team that the St. Louis Cardinals defeated to win the World Series. It was the Detroit Tigers, not the Detroit Lions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SENTENCING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); PRISONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); LITIGATION (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CENTRIFUGES (70%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); RIOTS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JIM WEBB (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



658 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: New York Bets On High-Tech To Aid Upstate

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: EAST FISHKILL, N.Y. 

 BODY:
New video game consoles from Sony and Nintendo will soon join Microsoft's year-old Xbox 360 on store shelves. Most of the microprocessor chips that animate the three machines are being made not in Asia but in a factory here, surrounded by woods, 70 miles north of Midtown Manhattan.
 Inside, the factory is filled with hundreds of chip-making tools that are fed by plastic pods, riding on overhead tracks and carrying pristine silicon wafers, in an elaborate symphony of production.
Engineers and operators, wearing head-to-toe nylon suits and surgical gloves, monitor the machines from laptop computers, constantly tweaking the system to generate faster output with fewer defects. 
 This sprawling I.B.M. factory offers a glimpse of the kind of manufacturing in which the United States still excels: the automated production of advanced technology, requiring highly skilled workers -- but not a lot of them.
 The modern factory is also an important part of an ambitious business-and-government effort to create a thriving industrial cluster in upstate New York, based on microelectronics and nanotechnology, the science of manipulating materials at the molecular and atomic level. 
 The other pillar of the plan is the Albany NanoTech complex, a research and development center at the State University of New York at Albany, nearly 100 miles north of East Fishkill. 
 State and local governments are betting big on this high-tech vision, with grants, tax breaks and other subsidies of more than $1 billion, mainly in the last five years. More government backing has been pledged. That bet may already be paying off. There are recent signs, from big-company investments to the birth of small start-ups, to suggest that the technology cluster is gaining momentum. 
 But nurturing high-technology hubs, development experts say, is tricky, and simply making big investments in factories and labs is no guarantee of success. 
 The real goal, they add, is to build gradually a network of people and companies with technical, design, financial and entrepreneurial expertise -- one that pursues a whole range of high-tech opportunities instead of being dependent on a particular product, factory or industry niche.
 Silicon Valley, they note, no longer relies on silicon factories for its prosperity. Product design, software, services and financing account for most of the 490,000 high-tech jobs in Silicon Valley. 
 ''Manufacturing alone is not where competitive advantage lies in the long run,'' said AnnaLee Saxenian, dean of the School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of ''The New Argonauts: Regional Advantage in a Global Economy.'' 
 ''The key for upstate New York, or any other region, is the ability to build the set of social and institutional relationships that encourage innovation.'' 
 As a cautionary example, Ms. Saxenian points to the once-promising effort to develop a high-tech cluster around Intel's big chip plant outside Portland, Ore., which seems to have stalled in the last few years.
 In upstate New York, as in the nation, pockets of growth are not going to reverse the long-term decline in manufacturing jobs.
 The United States remains the world's top manufacturer in terms of the value of goods produced. But the gains, especially in high-tech products, have come from more efficiency. From 1990 to 2005, the number of manufacturing jobs in New York State fell by 41 percent, to 580,000. 
 ''This upstate cluster -- no matter how successful -- is not going to create a lot of manufacturing jobs, and it is not going to be an answer for the problem we have in upstate New York of the shrinking job base in traditional blue-collar manufacturing,'' said Richard Deitz, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Buffalo branch. 
 Still, the early progress in upstate New York is encouraging. In the last year alone, employment at the Albany NanoTech complex has doubled to nearly 1,400. The nanotechnology center, a modern building sheathed in bluish mirror-glass and metal, now covers 450,000 square feet, and construction of a 250,000-square-foot building nearby is scheduled to begin later this year.
 More than 100 companies have engineers working at the industry-and-university research center. The roster includes big chip makers, like I.B.M. and Advanced Micro Devices, as well as two leading foreign makers of semiconductor equipment, Tokyo Electron of Japan and ASML of the Netherlands, which also have set up research operations at the Albany complex.
 The evolving cluster helped sway Advanced Micro Devices when it chose to build a $3.2 billion computer chip factory in Saratoga County, north of Albany. The company made the decision this year, after weighing competing bids from other states and from Asian nations.
 ''Being close to strategic partners, like I.B.M., and to the research and knowledge base that is building up around Albany was incredibly important,'' said Susan Snyder, vice president for government relations at Advanced Micro Devices.
 Most of the investment has been by big companies so far. But the Albany complex has also helped or given birth to small technology companies and start-ups nearby, like Starfire Systems, Applied NanoWorks and Evident Technologies. 
 ''This is beyond pump-priming now,'' said Alain Kaloyeros, a physicist who is the chief administrative officer of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at SUNY-Albany.
 Mr. Kaloyeros sees the combination of the research center along with the corporate investment in Albany and East Fishkill as the beginning of ''a huge knowledge-generating machine,'' which should attract more investment, skilled workers, scientists and students.
 That is certainly the hope, and expectation, of state government leaders who have heavily subsidized the plan. The subsidies are intended to be a cooperative investment with industry, rather than a giveaway, according to state officials.
 One standard, state officials say, is that corporate investment should exceed government support by a ratio of at least three to one. ''It should be driven mainly by the private sector,'' said Jeffrey Lovell, senior policy adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki.
 The Albany nanotechnology complex passes that test. About $3 billion has been invested in the complex so far, mainly for costly tools and equipment needed for research and development. The private spending has totaled $2.5 billion, while the state has invested $500 million in its push to add high technology as an engine of the state capital's economy, which relies largely on government and related services. 
 The state's bid for the planned Advanced Micro Devices factory shows the rationale for government support for high-technology ventures. The state has agreed to provide the company with $900 million in grants and tax credits. A.M.D. is expected to employ about 1,200 people at the factory, which works out to a hefty $750,000 of state subsidy for each job created.
 But state officials argue that the factory will create 3,600 full-time jobs when services and support for the factory are included. And thousands more construction workers will work on the project.
 The overall impact will be to add $2 billion to the region's economy over 10 years, mostly in wages, from the employment linked to the factory, estimates John M. Bacheller, executive vice president of the Empire State Development Corporation. 
 In East Fishkill, the state and local governments pledged tax breaks, grants and incentives of $660 million to ensure that I.B.M. built its factory, which opened in 2002, in the region. I.B.M. had alternatives, but it was inclined to locate in its traditional manufacturing territory and not far from its research labs in Yorktown Heights, as long as the state helped out. 
 The new $3 billion factory came after a long period of contraction by I.B.M. in the lower Hudson Valley, where the company had employed more than 30,000 in the 1980s. That was the heyday of the mainframe, an era of computing that I.B.M. dominated. In Dutchess County, home to the company's big operations in Poughkeepsie and Fishkill, entire neighborhoods were made up of I.B.M. families.
 But when I.B.M.'s fortunes plummeted in the early 1990s, production lines were shut and the company's employment in the region fell to less than 14,000. In Dutchess County, unemployment nearly tripled to 11 percent.
 The East Fishkill factory -- built on a site where I.B.M. closed a chip production line in 1993 -- has helped stabilize the region's economy by attracting other private investment and skilled workers. The county's unemployment rate is down to 4 percent and house prices are rising. 
 A couple of years ago, there was a lot of open space on the factory's production floor. But now it is packed full of silicon-processing machines, each self-enclosed and airtight, about 500 and counting. More are being installed in an adjacent annex building.
 Output at the East Fishkill factory has more than doubled in the last three years, and 80 percent of the production is for outside customers like the video game makers. I.B.M. makes microprocessors for its own big computers, but that work does not fill the new operation. To be profitable, it relies on doing tailored design and manufacturing in collaboration with industry partners like Sony.
 The microprocessors made for Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft are shipped to Asia, where contract assemblers, mostly in China, put together the video game consoles. Many of those consoles end up on the American market. 
 The I.B.M. factory runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, employing more than 2,000 people, including maintenance and administrative workers. The few hundred people on the factory floor at any one time often have skills seemingly more suited to a research lab than a production line. Ph.D.'s are thick on the floor, and even machine operators with two-year degrees from technical schools must constantly upgrade their skills.
 Joseph Lawson, a senior operator, recalled the days, more than two decades ago, when he dipped silicon wafers into chemicals by hand. ''Now it's all automated,'' he said. ''The tools are amazing, and the training never stops.''
 In addition, 250 engineers and managers from partner companies work at the I.B.M. factory. They have come from Japan, Germany, Singapore and elsewhere. 
 Takayuki Kurihara, a 32-year-old software engineer for Tokyo Electron, moved to Fishkill in 2002. He beat out 10 other candidates for the job. ''What I.B.M. is doing here is very high-tech, and this factory is in the spotlight in my industry in Japan,'' Mr. Kurihara said. ''Many people want to come here.''
 Local officials are trying to lure more companies.
 The appeal, said Anne N. Conroy, president of the Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation, is being surrounded by a growing pool of skilled people and industry partners.
 ''It's the cluster that attracts them,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees wear nylon suits and surgical gloves to monitor chip-making at I.B.M.'s East Fishkill plant. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Highly skilled workers at the I.B.M. factory monitor the automated chip-making process, which is fed by plastic pods riding on overhead tracks. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)
 Chimaobi Mbanaso is a Ph.D. student in nanoscience at the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at SUNY-Albany. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. C9)Chart/Map: ''New York's High-Tech CorridorNew factories are part of an ambitious business-and-government effort to create a computer chip manufacturing cluster in upstate New York.Map of New York State highlights the locations of the following:A.M.D.'s planned factoryMore than $3 billion is to be invested in a chip plant.Albany NanoTechAmong the more than 100 companies and research organizations at the complex:I.B.M.Advanced Micro DevicesTokyo ElectronApplied MaterialsASMLSematechI.B.M. plantPartners include:Advanced Micro DevicesSonyToshibaTokyo ElectronASMLChartered SemiconductorSamsungInfineon(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (78%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); TRENDS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips; Automation; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Nanotechnology; Computers and the Internet; Microprocessors ; Research

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp; Albany Nanotech; State University of New York (Albany); Advanced Micro Devices

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%) New York State; East Fishkill (NY); Saratoga County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



659 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: Questions, Pledges, and Confrontations; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Iraq Contractor Is Hiding Data From U.S. 

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ and FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
A Halliburton subsidiary that has been subjected to numerous investigations for billions of dollars in contracts it received for work in Iraq has systematically misused federal rules to withhold basic information on its practices from American officials, a federal oversight agency said yesterday.
 The contracts awarded to the company, KBR, formerly named Kellogg Brown & Root, are for housing, food, fuel and other necessities for American troops and government officials in Iraq, and for restoring that country's crucial oil infrastructure. The contracts total about $20 billion.
 The oversight agency, the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, said KBR had refused to disclose information as basic as how many people are fed each day in its dining facilities and how many gallons of fuel are delivered to foreign embassies in Iraq, claiming that the data was proprietary, meaning it would unfairly help its business competitors.
 Although KBR has been subjected to a growing number of specific investigations and paid substantial penalties, this is the first time the federal government has weighed in and accused it of systematically engaging in a practice aimed at veiling its business practices in Iraq. 
 The allegations come at a critical time for the company, as Halliburton is trying to spin off the subsidiary. And in July, the Army announced that it would terminate KBR's largest contract with the government, and the company says that it will compete to regain some of that business when the government calls for new bids.
 Proprietary information is protected by the so-called federal acquisition regulations, known as FAR. But the agency said KBR routinely stamped nearly all of the data it collects on its work as proprietary, impeding not only the investigations into the company's activities but also things as simple as managerial oversight of the work.
 ''The use of proprietary data markings on reports and information submitted by KBR to the government is an abuse of the FAR and the procurement system,'' says a memo released yesterday by the special inspector general.
 As a result, the memo said, ''KBR is not protecting its own data, but is in many instances inappropriately restricting the government's use of information that KBR is required to gather for the government.''
 The specific examples cited by the inspector general are taken from an $18 billion contract called the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program, informally known as Logcap, under which KBR provides food, fuel, housing, recreational facilities and laundry and other services to American troops, government officials and other contractors in Iraq.
 A spokeswoman for Halliburton, Cathy Mann, did not dispute the company's extensive use of the proprietary label but said, ''KBR has included proprietary markings on the majority of its data and property in support of its government contracts for the U.S. Army for at least the last decade.''
 That assertion could not immediately be confirmed with the Army. But in its memo, the inspector general's office said that during the course of its investigation, both Pentagon auditors and Army contracting officers had shared serious concerns about the practice. 
 And a statement released late yesterday by the Army Sustainment Command in Rock Island, Ill., said that it had ''implemented corrective actions relative to the concerns raised'' in the memo.
 Ms. Mann added that KBR believed that the use of proprietary markings in work for the United States government ''is not only encouraged, but required'' by federal laws restricting the disclosure of American trade secrets abroad.
 With the release of the new memo, that argument is unlikely to gain much traction with members of Congress, federal investigators and the numerous critics who have been calling for access to information on KBR's work in Iraq almost since the invasion ended.
 ''The arrogance is astounding on the part of KBR,'' said William L. Nash, a retired Army major general who is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and an expert on postconflict zones. ''It's time for Congress to step in, because this has just gone too far.''
 Reaction to the memo on Capitol Hill also revealed that the issue of KBR's performance and investigations of its work are increasingly causing concern on both sides of the political aisle.
 Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform and was one of the earliest critics of KBR's use of the proprietary label, said the new memo showed how the company had tried to conceal ''corporate profiteering during wartime.''
 Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who is chairwoman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said, ''I am concerned that the special inspector general has not always had full cooperation and access to the corporate documents that his office needs to carry out its critical mission.'' 
 Access to that information, Senator Collins said, ''helps to ensure that government contractors fulfill their contractual obligations and that government gets the best value for taxpayer dollars. The improper use of proprietary claims impedes critical transparency and makes it more difficult for the inspector general's office to complete essential audits.''
 The special inspector general for Iraq reconstruction is Stuart W. Bowen Jr., a Republican whose investigative zeal has surprised some political analysts who believed that he would be reluctant to expose flaws in the administration's reconstruction program and companies like Halliburton. Dick Cheney was Halliburton's chief executive until he left to run for vice president.
 Halliburton has blamed KBR for holding down the company's stock performance, and is planning to sell a 20 percent stake in KBR to the public by the end of the year, and then spin off the rest of the shares in the company to Halliburton shareholders in early 2007, thus severing the corporate ties.
 Halliburton, though, would retain some responsibility for dealing with continuing federal investigations of KBR's work in Iraq. Documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the public offering have revealed a wide range of investigations into KBR's work in Iraq, raising the possibilities that investors and the parent company could foot the bill for settlements against KBR.
 Those documents, which must reveal potential risks to investors, indicate that continuing Justice Department investigations into KBR's work in Iraq have produced grand jury subpoenas for current and former employees.
 The company could have other liabilities. Outside Iraq, the papers say, there is a Justice Department investigation into possible overcharges in its work in the Balkans from 1996 to 2000. And the securities commission and the Justice Department are investigating payments in Nigeria that may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which bars the bribing of foreign officials.
 There is also an antitrust investigation, and the company says investigations into the Nigerian project found information that ''former employees may have engaged in coordinated bidding with one or more competitors on certain foreign construction projects and that such coordination possibly began as early as the mid-1980s.'' 
 The memo by the inspector general said that KBR would sometimes provide data to one part of the United States government, like Pentagon auditors, but with the proprietary label that would prevent its release to the public or even to other parts of the government.
 In other cases that clearly irritated the inspector general's auditors, KBR would hobble their work by releasing data in the form of gigantic but indigestible tables rather than within the kind of software -- like Excel spreadsheets -- that would let the auditors do their calculations.
 Those findings have raised suspicions that if KBR was going to such lengths to keep the data out of the hands of auditors, then the company must have something to hide, said Frederick D. Barton, a director of the Postconflict Reconstruction Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
 ''There's been smoke for some time,'' Mr. Barton said. ''This seems to indicate that there was fire as well.''
 Halliburton stock was weak early in the Bush administration, in part because oil prices fell as the world economy weakened in 2001. The stock bottomed out at $4.30 in early 2002 and rose sharply thereafter, eventually peaking at $41.98 this April as the oil services industry benefited from increased oil exploration and as the Iraq war continued. 
 It dropped as low as $26.33 earlier this month, as oil prices fell. It closed yesterday at $32.15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); ETHICS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); ARMIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%) Ethics

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (95%); KBR INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Kbr (Co); Halliburton Co

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (95%); KBR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (95%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (95%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (95%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (95%); NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (92%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (92%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (92%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (92%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (92%)

PERSON: James Glanz; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



660 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: After a Strong Week, a Whimper

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks pulled back yesterday after a government report stirred concerns that the economy may be slowing too much.
 Investors have bid up stocks sharply this month on the notion that the economy is slowing but that the slackening pace poses no threat to corporate profits and consumer spending. Investors are also counting on a gradual slowdown to reduce the threat of inflation and persuade the Federal Reserve to lower short-term interest rates.
While investors expected that yesterday's advance reading on gross domestic product from the Commerce Department would show slowing growth, the report underscored concern that a cooling housing market could spill over into other parts of the economy. 
 ''I think that the market actually was poised for profit taking and consolidation,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford. The G.D.P. report gave investors an excuse to catch their breath after the recent run-up, she said, calling the pullback a healthy pause.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 73.40 points, or 0.60 percent, at 12,090.26. The average had achieved a new high close in each of the previous four sessions and in 13 of the previous 18 sessions.
 Broader stock indicators also moved lower yesterday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 11.74 points, or 0.85 percent, to 1,377.34, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 28.48 points, or 1.20 percent, to 2,350.62.
 Technology stocks retreated afternoon after a report from Goldman Sachs that warned of weakness in orders for computer parts.
 Over all, the major indexes showed gains for the week despite yesterday's decline. The Dow rose 0.73 percent for the week, while the S.& P. gained 0.64 percent and the Nasdaq added 0.36 percent. Even with the overall advances in the market, the S.& P. stands about 9.8 percent below its high close of 1,527.46 and the Nasdaq is even further off, about 53 percent below its high. 
 Bonds rose, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note gaining 11/32, to 10118/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, falling to 4.67 percent from 4.72 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 The G.D.P., the broadest measure of the economy, showed that growth slowed to 1.6 percent in the third quarter; economists had been expecting a 2.1 percent expansion. The report identified the slumping housing market as a significant drag on growth, as money pumped into home building fell by the largest amount since 1991.
 The University of Michigan reported that its consumer sentiment index rose to 93.6 for October from a reading of 85.4 last month, which provided some optimism. A decline in oil prices, which hit lows for the year a week ago and are sharply off midsummer's highs, has left more money in consumers' wallets.
 Light crude oil settled up 39 cents, to $60.75 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Subodh Kumar, chief investment strategist for CIBC World Markets, said the markets moved lower yesterday as investors tried to balance expectations about the economy with Fed policy and oil prices. The central bank left short-term interest rates unchanged on Thursday, as expected, and offered a little-changed opinion on the health of the economy.
 ''The fact that there is a moderate pullback tells you that the overall market risk is not extreme,'' he said.
 A flood of corporate earnings has held investor attention in recent weeks, with record profits from Chevron giving a dose of good earnings news yesterday. Chevron, which rose 18 cents to $67.68, reported its third-quarter profit surged 40 percent, to $5.02 billion, topping estimates. The year-ago quarter in part reflected costs tied to Hurricane Katrina.
 Microsoft fell 1 cent, to $28.34, even though it reported better-than-expected profit and raised its forecast.
 Alltel, a wireless carrier, declined $4.19, or 7.2 percent, to $53.99 after its third-quarter profit, though up 11 percent, missed expectations.
 BorgWarner fell $3.06, or 5 percent, to $58.25, after its third-quarter profit fell 36 percent as global sales failed to offset sizable production cuts by automakers in North America.
 Ingersoll-Rand, which makes industrial equipment, declined $1.45, or 3.7 percent, to $37.45, after posting a 4 percent drop in its third-quarter earnings, in part because of tax expenses and lower sales of its Bobcat equipment. The company also said its fourth-quarter profit would be below what Wall Street had expected.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Gross Domestic Product; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%) University of Michigan

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



661 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Gone but Not Forgotten

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
The Ford Taurus is dead. Long live the Taurus?
 This week produced one of those stranger-than-fiction moments in Ford's history: the last Taurus rolled off the assembly line Friday, in the same week that Ford's new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the struggling company needed to transform itself with grand new ambitions -- the same kind of ambitions that gave birth to the Taurus, which became the symbol of American automotive renaissance when it first went on sale in 1985.
The storyline is even more ironic, given that Mr. Mulally, as a top executive at Boeing, used the development of the Taurus as an inspirational case study for his team as they overhauled the way that Boeing built planes.
 And, in a sense, he is doing the same again. ''Ford's on a new plan,'' Mr. Mulally said last week. ''We're in business to create value.'' 
 Yet, there is a deflating lesson in the way Ford allowed the Taurus to lose its value after creating a brand that became a legend. 
 Two decades back, Taurus ''was a huge win, not just for Ford, but for the home team,'' said Karl Brauer, editor in chief of Edmunds.com, which offers car-buying advice. ''Here was an American car that was scoring so well with American consumers.'' 
 In its 20 years on the market, Ford sold more than seven million Taurus cars, and millions more of its sister model, the Mercury Sable. 
 While they look almost mundane now, both Taurus and Sable boasted a revolutionary aerodynamic styling at the time. Taurus, in particular, touched a nerve in Americans who had grown tired of square cars whose personality had been drained away as Detroit focused more on meeting fuel economy standards than on bold design. 
 But Ford -- because of later choices on where to put its product development dollars and a redesign that alienated customers -- could not keep its appeal alive. So the plant in Atlanta that built the Taurus will close next week, part of the overhaul plan that Ford hopes will reverse one of the worst financial crises in its 103-year history.
 Mr. Mulally is trying to focus on the future, and in less than a month on the job has set out a series of goals very close to what Ford tried to do with that original Taurus. 
 They include trying to captivate the American public with innovative design, streamlining its manufacturing processes and involving the United Automobile Workers union in trying to rally a company brought to its knees by foreign competition and a product lineup that is losing market share for Ford. 
 The Taurus broke the old mold of car development in Detroit, where designers passed off their ideas to engineers, who threw them over the wall to manufacturing experts, who never talked to the marketing staff. Instead, Taurus got everyone in a room together, creating a new paradigm that companies rushed to copy. 
 Mr. Mulally was not far behind. In the early 1990s, he borrowed ideas from Team Taurus to develop the Boeing 777 long-range jet. More recently, he also used those lessons to help create the medium-range 787, nicknamed the Dreamliner, which may turn out to be as big a hit for Boeing as the Taurus was for Ford.
 But as others started copying Ford, the company grew distracted over the last 10 years -- first by efforts to globalize its product development, assigning different sizes of cars to different parts of the world, and then by its efforts to dominate the sport utility market at the expense of cars like the Taurus. 
 Once consumers began losing interest in S.U.V.s this decade, Ford started losing its dominant hold on the marketplace. 
 Mr. Mulally, in a memo to employees this month, said he was determined to help Ford ''restake our claim as history's best example of a company that enriches the lives of all its stakeholders: investors, customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, our union partners and the countries and communities in which we live.''
 But analysts said the strategy this time would not be to gamble big on a car like the Taurus -- the equivalent of a moon shot. Rather, they said, the company needs a succession of well-thought-out cars that will be profitable at lower sales levels. That very much describes the product strategy that Mr. Mulally put in place for Boeing (in marked contrast to Airbus's big bet on the A380 double-decker plane). 
 Given the fierce competition and rising market share of foreign companies, Mr. Mulally cannot count on the 400,000 sales per year that the Taurus generated in its heyday. 
 That spot is already taken by the Toyota Camry, followed closely by the Honda Accord, meaning other automakers must be satisfied with smaller numbers. Instead, Mr. Mulally has to concentrate on lesser but steadier hits rather than a roll of the dice, said John Paul MacDuffie, a professor at the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania.
 Ford will have trouble replicating the splash that it made when it introduced the Taurus, which was featured on magazine covers and populated Detroit freeways in its early months. Ford, in fact, sent 100 Taurus cars in a caravan down Jefferson Avenue in downtown Detroit, proudly showing off its new wheels to competitors. 
 Lately, Ford executives have made much of the Edge, a crossover vehicle that made its debut last week on the streets of San Francisco, where the company invited journalists to drive it and gauge bystanders' response. 
 On Monday, Ford said it had received 20,000 advance orders for the Edge, but that was just a fraction of the 103,000 advance orders that customers placed in 1985 for the Taurus and its sister car, the Mercury Sable. 
 Besides the Edge, Ford is introducing a new Super Duty version of its F-series pickup next year, just when G.M. and Toyota will have new trucks. And Ford officials are promising a new iteration of the Mustang each year. But the real muscle in its lineup does not come until later on this decade, when Ford overhauls the basic F-series and plans to introduce a small car.
 For now, the Edge takes center stage but it is entering a segment of the market already populated with crossover vehicles, which are essentially sport utilities based on the underpinnings of a car. 
 It cannot claim to be first to that market -- nor can it claim to be directly challenging a small group of Japanese models, as the Taurus did two decades ago when it took on the Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord.
 Yet such smaller bets are safer for Mr. Mulally at this point, analysts said, until he instills the kind of discipline, business plan and production processes that he wants the company to follow. 
 This week, Mr. Mulally said he was actually glad that Ford was not a well-oiled machine. ''Can you imagine if we were already lean? It would be terrifying,'' he said, because that would not allow him any room for improvement.
 For its part, the Taurus does offers an example of a mistake that Ford would be wise not to repeat -- namely in the way it largely abandoned the car when S.U.V.'s became popular, Professor MacDuffie said.
 After a radical redesign in 1996 that failed to catch on with consumers, Ford shifted its resources into developing sport utilities, a move that allowed Camry to grab the top-selling car spot, which it has yielded just once to the Accord. 
 The latest Camry, introduced this spring, won good reviews for its fresh, modern look and smooth ride at a time when Ford was preparing to put Taurus out to pasture.
 ''American companies have not been as good at staying focused and keeping consistent,'' Professor MacDuffie said. ''They do tend to jump around to whatever looks like it is going to be the most profitable.'' 
 He said he was encouraged that Mr. Mulally was ''signaling the need for focus.''
 ''He's shown in his background, not only in the things he's said, that he understands the need for strong products that are strongly manufactured,'' Professor MacDuffie said. ''And the strong products are clearly the ones that are selling well.'' 
 That would be encouraging to Ford workers, currently deciding whether they want to accept buyouts and incentives to retire. Mr. Mulally said he understood their trepidation about the future. ''It will take a while to go back up again,'' he said last week.
 ''It's just like at Boeing, where people said, 'Will you tell us when we'll be halfway done with the movie, so we can go out for popcorn? Can you tell us when we'll all be able to see it?' '' 
 At Ford's Atlanta plant, where the last Taurus rolled off the line at 7:25 a.m. Friday, the local union president, Steve Stephens, said he was encouraging workers to remain upbeat despite the impending shutdown.
 ''We stood out,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''It's something we're going to tell our grandkids about, that we were part of the evolution in the automotive industry.''

 Ford Taurus
Honda Accord
Toyota Camry

'06 figures through Sept.

(Source by Autodata Corporation)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The last Ford Taurus rolled off the assembly line yesterday, just as the company announced a transformation plan. (Photo by JP Moczulski/Reuters)Photo: Ford's new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, unveiled the Edge this month in the Toronto suburb of Oakville. (Photo by JP Moczulski/Reuters)Graph: ''From Zero to No. 1 to Done''The Taurus was the top-selling car in the country in the late 1980s and the mid-1990s. But soon after the design was changed in 1996, sales dropped precipitously and never recovered.Graph tracks number of sales for the following cars since 1985:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (71%); CASE STUDIES (69%); BRANDING (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); MARKET SHARE (50%) Automobiles; Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (90%) Micheline Maynard; Alan R Mulally

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



662 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Some Numbers Soar While Some Others Slump 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
ROBUST corporate profits and flagging inflation propelled the stock market to new heights, but economic news on the ground was not as encouraging. Automakers said they lost billions of dollars in the third quarter, unemployment claims spiked and the housing market slowed faster than expected.
In Houston, a federal judge closed the books on the decade's defining business scandal by sending a former corporate executive to federal prison for more than two decades and stripping him of his fortune.

ENRON EPILOGUE -- Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, was sentenced to 24 years and 4 months in prison for his role in the company's collapse. At the same time, Judge Simeon T. Lake III of Federal District Court ordered him to forfeit $45 million, which prosecutors said would effectively wipe out his fortune. 
 Mr. Skilling, 52, faced the judge alone, without Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's founder and Mr. Skilling's co-defendant in the criminal trial that ended with both men convicted of heading a conspiracy to defraud investors. Mr. Lay died of heart problems in July, and because of that his guilty verdict was vacated last week. 
 The judge said Mr. Skilling could stay at home under electronic surveillance until a federal prison is selected to house him.

UNPLEASANT SURPRISE -- Constrained by a flagging housing market, the economy grew at an annual rate of just 1.6 percent in the third quarter, the slowest pace since early 2003, the Commerce Department reported.
 Economists had expected some slowing, but only to about a 2 percent rate. The economy grew at a seasonally adjusted rate of 2.6 percent in the second quarter and 5.6 percent in the first.
 The effect of the housing slump -- residential construction plunged by nearly one-fifth in the quarter, the steepest decline in 15 years -- knocked 1.1 percentage points off the overall figure for economic growth.
 Updated information on both residential and commercial development will come Wednesday, when the Census Bureau is scheduled to release its latest statistics on construction spending.

STEADY COURSE -- Suggesting it believes the economy is heading for a so-called soft landing, in which interest-rate increases slow inflation without causing a recession, the Federal Reserve held its benchmark interest rate steady at 5.25 percent.
 While falling gasoline prices have brought down the overall inflation rate, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge -- which excludes volatile energy and food prices -- has risen to an annual rate of 2.5 percent, according to the Commerce Department. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said he prefers that this core inflation rate be 1 to 2 percent.
 Keeping rates relatively low may be good news for retailers as the country heads into the holiday shopping season, particularly as consumers worry about home prices. The National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes declined 1.9 percent in September from August, and the median sale price fell, to $220,000 from $225,000.
 Further evidence of the economy's health will come Tuesday, when the private Conference Board updates its consumer confidence index, and Friday, when the federal government updates the jobless rate.

ANOTHER GUSHER -- Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, said it had another impressive quarter, earning more than $10 billion in profit for the three months through September, even as crude oil prices fell.
 Chevron, the country's second-largest oil company, said it made a profit of more than $5 billion in the same period, the first time that its quarterly profit exceeded that mark in its 127-year history.
 ConocoPhilips and other companies said their profits were less impressive, partly because crude oil prices slipped late in the quarter. The current price, $60.80 a barrel, is below the July peak, when a benchmark contract price skirted $80, but it remains high by long-term standards -- twice as expensive as three years ago and still above last year's average.
 Higher energy prices may return soon. Recent statistics showed inventories were falling in the United States, just as cold weather began to arrive in the Midwest and the Northeast.

DETROIT BLUES -- The Ford Motor Company said it lost $5.8 billion in the three months through September, and its new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the company faced a ''critical time'' in its 103-year history.
 At the same time, the Chrysler Group, said it lost nearly $1.5 billion on operations in the same period. General Motors also posted a loss in the quarter, of $115 million, but after stripping out one-time costs at its finance unit and a semiautonomous parts company it made a profit of $529 million in the July-to-September period.
 The problem for all three American carmakers was the same: high gasoline prices depressed sales of their most profitable vehicles, S.U.V.'s, while pension and health care costs soared. That squeeze led G.M. to lose $10.6 billion last year. Ford has already lost $7.2 billion so far this year; its full-year loss may exceed $9 billion.
 Ford said that its sales would probably be surpassed soon by Toyota and that it did not anticipate a profit in North America until at least 2009.

STORMING THE GATES -- Having failed to bully his way onto the board of Time Warner, the corporate raider Carl C. Icahn succeeded in taking control of ImClone Systems, the maker of biotechnology drugs best known as the company whose shares were at the center of the scandal that led to a jail term for Martha Stewart.
 Joseph L. Fischer resigned as the company's interim chief executive, and the company said it would replace him with an executive committee headed by Alexander J. Denner, an associate of Mr. Icahn's, until a new chief executive is named.
 Three directors also agreed to step down at the company's next annual meeting, early next year.

MOST POPULAR Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Oct. 21 through Oct. 27:
1. Beware of the Squish Behind the Jet Seat
 2. We're Google. So Sue Us.
 3. Researchers See Privacy Pitfalls in No-Swipe Credit Cards
 4. Doctors Rethink Widespread Use of Heart Stents
 5. Slabs Are Joining Scoops in Ice Cream Retailing
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey K. Skilling, second from right, was sentenced to 24 years and 4 months. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRISONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUDGES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); STATISTICS (86%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); VERDICTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SENTENCING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SCANDALS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ASSET FORFEITURE (72%); ETHICS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); CONSPIRACY (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); CENSUS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); RETAILERS (61%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (51%) Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Bankruptcies; Accounting and Accountants; Sentences (Criminal); Fines (Penalties); United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles; Company Reports; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%) Enron Corp; Commerce Department; Enron Corp; Federal Reserve System; National Assn of Realtors; Enron Corp; Exxon Mobil; Chevron Corp; Ford Motor Co; Imclone Systems; Enron Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; General Motors Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (70%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN MULALLY (55%) Jeffrey K Skilling; Simeon T III (Judge) Lake; Alan R Mulally; Carl C Icahn; Joseph L Fischer; Alexander J Denner; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



663 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Search Area Is Expanded For Remains From Sept. 11

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration said yesterday that it would cast a net well beyond ground zero, from Broadway to the Hudson River, from the bottom of manholes to the top of nearby skyscrapers, in its search for human remains from Sept. 11, 2001.
 The chief medical examiner is to inspect the roofs of the Millenium Hotel and 1 Liberty Plaza, opposite the World Trade Center site. Tiny bone fragments may be found there, mixed in with the stone ballast, as they were atop the former Deutsche Bank building, according to a report prepared for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
Key downtown redevelopment agencies have headquarters in the 53-story Liberty Plaza tower. It is also where victims' family members can visit privately in a room set aside for them on the 20th floor.
 The largest potential search site is the four-block-long, 60-foot-wide service road between the trade center pit and West Street. Dozens of bones and bone fragments have been found in the last week and a half in an abandoned, damaged manhole that had been buried under several feet of fill.
 A layer of trade center debris may still exist between the original roadway and the current service road, said the report by David J. Burney, the commissioner of the Department of Design and Construction, and Charles J. Maikish, the executive director of the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center.
 An expanded search may take a year or longer, Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler said. At times, it will require the overnight closing of some lanes of West Street. He said he could not estimate the cost.
 ''We are going to search high and low for anything we can find,'' Mr. Skyler said, ''and if the result of all this work is only one more remain or one more piece of personal property, it will still have been worth it.''
 Family members said the proposed measures did not go far enough. For instance, they said workers ought to dig up the whole service road rather than conduct exploratory excavations as recommended. And they called again for the city to relinquish its role to the federal Joint P.O.W.-M.I.A. Accounting Command, which recovers and identifies service members who have been killed in action.
 ''Doing more of the same wrong thing in a larger area cannot serve any useful purpose,'' said Sally Regenhard. She has yet to recover her son, Christian, who was killed in the 2001 terrorist attack.
 But Mr. Skyler said the city had the experience and the forensic anthropologists needed to do the job, including two veterans of the accounting command. ''The same expertise that JPAC would bring to the table, the city has,'' he said.
 Another site where trade center debris may be found, the report said, is the small block between Liberty and Cedar Streets. St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church stood there until 9/11, when it was destroyed by the collapse of 2 World Trade Center. No buildings are there now.
 Inspection is also warranted, the report said, at Fiterman Hall, a badly damaged building north of ground zero that is to be demolished, and 130 Cedar Street, south of ground zero, which is to be renovated.
 The report called for the visual inspection of as many as 500 subterranean structures -- manholes, service boxes, valve chambers and cable-splicing chambers -- between Broadway and the Hudson River and Barclay and Albany Streets. If trade center debris is found, the report said, the chief medical examiner should be called in to sift it.
 Mayor Bloomberg went further and said that any extraneous material, like silt, should be removed and sifted by the medical examiner. He accepted the rest of the report.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction workers removed manhole covers along a service road at ground zero this week in a renewed search for 9/11 body parts. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); FORENSICS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); HIJACKING (63%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) David W Dunlap; Edward (Deputy Mayor) Skyler; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



664 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN: Faultfinding; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Moderate Republicans Feeling Like Endangered Species

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
Facing the loss of fellow moderates in the Nov. 7 elections, Republican centrists in the House and Senate are faulting Congressional and party leaders for pursuing a strategy dominated by conservative themes.
 Leading moderates say Republicans concentrated on social wedge issues like same-sex marriage while pressing national security almost to the exclusion of popular wage and health policies that could have helped endangered Republicans in the Northeast and the Midwest.
''There wasn't an impetus to help develop a political and legislative plan that incorporated the broad umbrella of philosophy in our party,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, whom experts expect to be easily re-elected. ''I think they always operated under the wrong assumption that you just appeal to the base and no more than that.'' 
 Ms. Snowe and other moderates, while holding out hope that most of their counterparts would hang on, were dismayed by the prospect of depleted ranks, saying it could lead to a more polarized Congress. 
 Two Senate Republicans often found in the small moderate bloc, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island and Mike DeWine of Ohio, are in serious jeopardy. Two leading House moderates are retiring, another lost a primary, and at least six others are in difficult re-election fights in Connecticut, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and elsewhere.
 The centrists said heavy losses outside strongholds in the South and parts of the West and Midwest could imperil the party's future. They say Republicans cannot sustain a long-term majority unless the party thrives throughout the country. 
 ''There are some people who, because they are so pure and so sure of themselves, they are willing to run the risk of having the Republican Party no longer be national but be more regional,'' said Representative Sherwood L. Boehlert of New York, a respected moderate who is retiring. ''They think they can maintain their majority as a regional party.''
 Conservatives say the overall party message was developed to draw the most loyal voters to the polls by emphasizing bedrock principles. The leader of one group that backed conservative candidates in Republican primaries, angering the moderate wing, said some moderates were in trouble simply because they strayed too far, alienating Republicans without attracting Democrats.
 ''We have people who are certainly well left of the center of the Republican conference on all issues, including economic and growth issues,'' said the leader, Pat Toomey, a former congressman from Pennsylvania who heads the Club for Growth. ''I'm not hoping they lose. But if they do, I think we will be able to recapture those seats with pro-growth candidates who distance themselves from Democrats.''
 Even conservatives acknowledge that the push did not make it easy for candidates in close races in New England and Ohio.
 ''It is a real quandary,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said. ''It is true that in order to motivate folks there has been an appeal made to turn out our conservatives, which by definition doesn't help those who are not as in tune with the base.''
 In past election cycles, Republican moderates, like their right-leaning Democratic colleagues in the South, have survived by emphasizing differences with their own party on pivotal issues. Independent voters at home have indicated a willingness to back their lawmakers and draw a distinction between them and the party. 
 But this year, given the Iraq war, dissatisfaction with President Bush and a series of Republican scandals, some voters no longer seem willing to separate the two.
 ''It appears we have finally pushed them far enough to vote for the Democratic Party,'' said Sarah Chamberlain Resnick, executive director of the Republican Mainstreet Partnership. ''As a loyal Republican, I think that is scary.''
 Democrats have also made a concerted effort against vulnerable Republican moderates, which Senator Susan Collins, another Republican of Maine, said was not much of a reward for those willing to try to work with the opposition party.
 ''There is no one who has voted more often with the Democrats than Linc Chafee,'' Ms. Collins said. ''Yet that didn't stop them from going after him with everything they had. That is a good lesson.'' 
 Ms. Collins and Ms. Snowe noted that although voters indicate a strong desire for bipartisanship, some lawmakers most likely to be punished are the very ones who have reached across the aisle.
 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, made no apologies for focusing on Republican moderates and said Republicans should blame the party leaders for its approach.
 ''They left these guys to fend for themselves in districts that have been trending Democratic,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''What we did was recruit and fully fund our candidates.''
 Republicans leaning toward the middle on social, environmental and spending matters have been raising the alarm for months, saying the party was missing opportunities to bolster moderate candidates with measures on raising the minimum wage, expanding stem cell research and ethics reform.
 But the minimum-wage increase died when it was tied to a move to repeal the estate tax, President Bush vetoed the stem cell measure, and the drive for ethics reform collapsed.
 ''I don't think the agenda has been particularly helpful,'' said Representative Michael N. Castle, Republican of Delaware, who said some Republicans had been dismissive of the centrists until the leadership was desperate for votes on major bills. 
 ''I will be the first to say there are those in the Republican Party who feel moderates are essential only in terms of numbers,'' Mr. Castle said.
 While Republican moderates struggle to maintain their numbers, some top Democratic challengers are from the more moderate wing of that party, raising the prospect that some gains will come from the right. 
 That possibility also gives Republican moderates hope that even if they number fewer, they could potentially band with Democrats in the center to influence measures. 
 ''I think,'' Ms. Collins said, ''the moderates in both parties could be empowered.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Mike DeWine, left, of Ohio, and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island are moderate Republicans whose seats are in serious jeopardy. (Photo by Kiichiro Sato/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Darren McCollester/Getty Images)Chart: ''Moderates and Conservatives''Some of the most competitive House races involve moderate Republicans. Below, Republican representatives are arranged according to their 2005 National Journal rating, which is based on voting records.30 HOUSE SEATSOn a graph ranging from less conservative to more conservative, the following are tracked:RACES LEANING DEMOCRATICTOSS UP RACESNote: Six seats not shown are vacant or have no rating.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); MARRIAGE (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%) Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: LINCOLN CHAFEE (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (73%); PAT TOOMEY (58%) Carl Hulse; Mike (Sen) Dewine; Lincoln (Sen) Chafee

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Ohio; Rhode Island

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



665 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Split, U.S. and Iraq Renew Vow to Work for Peace

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Michael Luo and Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Najaf.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
With recent events in Iraq causing growing strains between the Bush administration and the Iraqi government, the two governments issued a tautly worded statement through the American Embassy in Baghdad on Friday renewing their commitment to work together for peace and security in Iraq.
 The statement, remarkable for the fact that the two governments found it necessary, followed a meeting between Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador. The three-paragraph joint statement issued afterward appeared aimed at tamping down frictions between the governments while countering a growing perception in Baghdad and Washington that the increasingly grim situation here is driving a wedge between them. 
The statement said Mr. Maliki and Mr. Khalilzad -- who have meet regularly during Mr. Maliki's six months in office -- ''were pleased to meet today to discuss our ongoing efforts to bring peace and security to Iraq and create a better future for all Iraqis.'' Usually, meetings between the two men, with offices close to each other in Baghdad's Green Zone government compound, are not the subject of official announcements.
 ''While we recognize the difficulties, we know that our continued partnership and strategic alliance will allow us to meet the challenges facing Iraq,'' the statement said. ''The United States will continue to stand by the Iraqi government, and the Iraqi government welcomes the support of the United States as it moves forward with plans for national reconciliation, economic progress and the strengthening of the Iraqi security forces.''
 The statement concluded: ''The government of Iraq is committed to a good and strong relationship with the U.S. government to work together toward a democratic, stable Iraq, and to confront the terrorist challenges in light of the strategic alliance between the two countries.''
 The statement followed an outburst on Wednesday in which Mr. Maliki spoke out forcefully against the idea of American-imposed benchmarks or timelines for action on the most critical issues dividing the Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish populations. The benchmarks have been pushed by the Bush administration as a means of pulling the country back from the brink of civil war.
 But Mr. Maliki astonished American officials here by saying Wednesday that ''this is an elected government and no one has the right to set a timetable for it.'' He spoke 24 hours after Mr. Khalilzad and Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, had spoken of a timeline for action on the toughest issues as a centerpiece of a joint Iraqi and American strategy for winning the war. 
 In Washington, President Bush and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have both sought to calm the political storm in Baghdad. At his news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Bush said American officials were ''working with the Iraqi government to have certain benchmarks to meet as a way to determine whether or not they are making the hard decisions necessary to achieve peace.''
 But he said Mr. Maliki was right in his insistence on Iraq's right to make its own decisions. ''This is a sovereign government,'' he said. At a Pentagon news conference on Thursday, Mr. Rumsfeld said the idea of benchmarks did not involve fixed deadlines or penalties for the Iraqis.
 The issues outlined by Mr. Khalilzad and General Casey defined the struggle for political and economic power that is tearing at the fragile coalition of Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds that make up the Maliki government. They include the role of the Shiite militias, which have played a widening role in the bloodshed across the country, the division of oil revenues and the balance to be struck between holding officials of Saddam Hussein's government accountable and opening the door to rehabilitation.
 Days before Mr. Maliki's outburst, American officials handed out what they described as a ''notional political timetable'' setting out a series of deadlines for legislative and executive actions. The timetable ran from September this year through March 2007, and Mr. Khalilzad said it had been drawn up in consultation with the Maliki government. 
 High on the list was the passage of laws governing the disarming of militias, an amnesty for certain fighters and a program for reintegrating militia members into civilian life.
 The dispute over benchmarks reflects a deeper divide between the religious Shiite parties and the Americans, who were once seen by the Shiites as a partner in wresting power from the Sunni minority through elections. But the Americans have become increasingly unpopular with the Shiites as they have pushed plans for a reconciliation with the Sunnis, which the Americans hope would dampen the Sunni insurgency.
 But Shiites have chafed at the American push for reconciliation, in particular with the role played by Mr. Khalilzad, who is a Sunni Muslim. In recent weeks, Mr. Maliki and other high-ranking Shiites have begun to chafe at American military control of the new Iraqi Army, and have grown increasingly bitter over American statements identifying Shiite militias as equally responsible with the Sunni insurgents for the violence here.
 One of the most senior Shiite government officials, Adel Abdul-Mahdi, a vice president, told reporters in the southern city of Najaf on Friday that the American focus on disbanding the militias was misplaced. 
 ''There are some attempts to advance the fight against the militias and delay the fight against terrorism and the insurgency,'' he said after meeting with Iraq's most revered Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. ''We warn of the dangers of these attempts.''
 For the second time this week, American troops rolled in force into the stronghold of radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army on Friday in search of a missing American soldier, but this time withdrew without clashing with fighters there, authorities said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of a Shiite family who were attacked by gunmen received treatment yesterday in a hospital in Baquba, 35 miles northeast of Baghdad. (Photo by Mohammed Adnan/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (51%) United States International Relations; United States Foreign Service

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) John F Burns; George W (Pres) Bush; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki; Zalmay (Amb) Khalilzad

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



666 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Growth Slackened In Summer

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Jeremy Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Chilled by a summer slowdown in the housing market, the economy was held to a growth rate of 1.6 percent in the third quarter, the lowest since early 2003, the government reported yesterday.
 But evidence of a decline in inflation coupled with vigorous consumer spending left most economists saying that the overall economy is unlikely to be dragged into a recession even as the housing market continues to falter.
''We are in a housing recession, but we are not in a broader economic recession,'' said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist of Mellon Financial.
 The government report, which showed growth slowing from a 5.6 percent pace in the first quarter and 2.6 percent in the second, appeared to validate the expectation of the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that the economy is settling softly into a pace consistent with what he considers an acceptably low level of inflation. 
 ''Ben Bernanke's forecast was that past Fed tightening would slow demand,'' Mr. Hoey said. ''The forecast is tracking as far as I can see.''
 Stocks fell and bond prices rose as investors factored in the weaker-than-expected growth this summer, concluding that the Fed was less likely to raise interest rates next year.
 With the midterm elections little more than a week away, the Bush administration sought to persuade voters that the economy, while beating at a slower pace, remains healthy. 
 ''We have a very strong, large resilient economy that can absorb a housing correction,'' said Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary. ''If you isolate the impact of the housing correction and look at all the rest, those are solid numbers.''
 But Democrats seized on the report to criticize the administration's economic management.
 ''Economic growth has slowed even before most ordinary Americans have benefited from this recovery,'' Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the ranking Democrat on the Congressional Joint Economic Committee, said in a statement. ''It's clear that we need a new direction in policy to create an economy that works for all Americans.''
 The economic deceleration in the third quarter was almost single-handedly brought about by the steep contraction in home building. 
 Residential investment plummeted 17.4 percent in the quarter, its biggest decline in more than 15 years. This alone reduced economic growth in the third quarter by over 1.1 percentage points. 
 The building of factories, warehouses and commercial structures picked up some of the slack. Business investment, including structures and machinery, added nearly 0.9 percentage point to gross domestic product in the quarter.
 But what is most remarkable is that the pricking of the housing bubble has barely spilled over into consumer spending, which is still chugging along. The government reported that consumer spending grew 3.1 percent in the third quarter -- nearly twice as fast as overall economic growth.
 ''We have the most reckless and relentless consumers in the world,'' said David Kelly, economic adviser at Putnam Investments in Boston. ''It's wonderful.''
 The housing freeze had long been expected to put a chill on consumers' appetites. Sales of existing homes have declined almost 14 percent over the last year. The median price of new homes has fallen by almost 10 percent in the last 12 months and existing-home prices have started to decline nationwide. 
 Many economists assumed that just as consumers had leveraged their buying power by borrowing against the value of their homes when house prices were rising, now that house prices are falling they would start saving some money. 
 That, however, has not happened. Rather, increasing employment and falling gas prices seem to be providing consumers with new reasons to spend. The personal savings rate remained negative, at minus 0.5 percent of total disposable income.
 The University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence recorded its eighth-largest monthly gain in October, vaulting to its highest level since June 2005. Optimism was driven by falling gas prices as well as expectations of faster economic growth, larger wage gains and low unemployment. 
 Richard Curtin, who runs the university's surveys of consumers, noted that consumers remain reluctant to buy a home, keenly aware of the decline in house prices. Still, their overall appetite to spend remains as brisk as ever.
 Inflation, meanwhile, has started to abate -- at least for now. The measure of inflation preferred by the Fed, which measures the prices of goods and services, excluding food and energy, that consumers buy, rose 2.3 percent in the third quarter. This is down from the 2.7 percent rate of the second quarter, bringing inflation closer to the 1-to-2 percent range Mr. Bernanke considers acceptable. 
 The growth rate reported by the government is only a preliminary approximation. Historical experience suggests that subsequent revisions could change it substantially, for better or worse.
 But whatever the ultimate verdict on the summer period, several economists argue that growth in the fourth quarter is likely to be higher, as consumers spend the extra money in their wallets from lower gasoline prices on other items. 
 ''So far the quarter is going swimmingly,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. 
 The outlook for next year will depend on whether the continuing weakness in the housing market affects spending.
 Orawin Velz, director of economic forecasting at the Mortgage Bankers' Association, estimated that the fall in residential investment would continue to drag on the economy through the middle of next year, but that its impact would decline over time. ''We think the third quarter will be the peak of the damage,'' Ms. Velz said. 
 While many economists foresee a longer period of housing weakness, she said that supply and demand should come into balance by mid-2007 and that home construction would start rising next summer. 
 Still, if the weak housing market starts cutting into consumption, the drag on overall growth could be more intense. 
 While it is not yet evident in the official numbers, builders are starting to shed workers as older projects are completed and there are fewer new ones to take up the slack. This will probably cut into workers' income and spending, slowing growth. 
 In contrast to many business economists, Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic Policy and Research in Washington, argued that a consumer reaction to the weak housing market would pull the economy into a recession next year. 
 ''Homeowners had been pulling equity out of their homes at more than a $700 billion annual rate,'' Mr. Baker wrote yesterday. ''This borrowing will slow sharply in the quarters ahead.''
 But others insisted that consumer appetites should not be underestimated. ''Consumer spending hasn't stopped growing in 59 straight quarters, and some pretty awful things have happened in those 59 quarters,'' Mr. Yamarone said. ''We all keep forgetting that the consumer is resilient.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Real Economic Growth''Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation.Graph tracks annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation since 2003.(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); MORTGAGE BANKING (59%) United States Economy; Housing; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Building (Construction); United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System; Mortgage Bankers Assn of America

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (57%); JACK REED (57%) Orawin Velez; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006



667 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: Intimations of Mortality

BYLINE: By A.O. Scott. 
A. O. Scott is a film critic at The Times. He is writing a book on the American novel since World War II.

 BODY:
THE LAY OF THE LAND
 By Richard Ford.
 485pp. Alfred A. Knopf
 $26.95.
I wish I could tell you I had a formula for changing the character of big into small.'' Thus Frank Bascombe at 55, halfway through ''The Lay of the Land'' and past the actuarial midpoint of his existence, sighing in the midst of some overwhelming facts: prostate cancer; the departure of his second wife, Sally; the imminence of a Thanksgiving dinner with his first wife, Ann, and their surviving children, Paul and Clarissa; the indeterminacy of the Bush-Gore presidential election. (It's November of 2000, and you get the feeling that Frank, a committed if less than zealous Democrat, has resigned himself to what the rest of us know will be the outcome.) 
 Illness, politics, family -- big stuff indeed. And Frank can sometimes perceive his own experience in portentous terms, speaking of this stage of his life as the ''Permanent Period'' (which turns out not to be so permanent, but rather a way station en route to the Next Level). But the genius of Frank's creator, Richard Ford, lies in reversing the imaginary formula Frank wishes he had; Ford enlarges what might otherwise appear tiny, and Frank himself is the crucial factor in the equation. Frank's unassuming, ordinary, sometimes dull life now fills three novels -- ''The Sportswriter'' (1986), ''Independence Day'' (1996) and this one -- each larger than the one before. 
 The disproportionate ratio of Frank's ambition to Ford's can generate a corollary effect of critical inflation, as those of us less modest than Frank fall into the habit of proclaiming him a Representative Man, an Everyday Hero, a shining exemplar of the Great American Average. Inevitably, our mental Google Maps of American fiction click over from New Jersey into Pennsylvania, home of Rabbit Angstrom, another celebrated literary apotheosis of the regular guy. But their geographical proximity and the near rhyme of their surnames should not obscure the important differences between Mr. Angstrom and Mr. Bascombe, which have less to do with class or temperament than with the metaphysical implications of prose style and narrative structure. Rabbit, a sublime narcissist, is borne aloft on the wings of John Updike's free indirect style into an improbable but inarguable state of grace, where he touches on the deep mysteries of the universe and the essential facts of the American character. Frank, a more secular creature and a more diffident fellow, lives in the confines of his own first-person narration -- ruminating, hesitating, doubting and continually banging his shins against the puzzling, intractable mundane.
 Which may be what happens when you spend all your time in Jersey. Both Frank and Ford are Southerners by birth -- and Ford's novelistic itinerary has taken him as far afield as Montana and Mexico -- but they now belong, as surely as Bruce Springsteen or William Carlos Williams or Tony Soprano, to the Garden State. Rarely have its towns and county roads, or its motley populace, been rendered with such loving, knowing exactness, from the shore ''townlettes'' and strip malls to ''the peaceable town 'n country housing pattern New Jersey is famous for: deep two-acre lots with curbless frontage, on which are sited large but not ominous builder-design Capes, prairie contemporaries and Dutch-door ranches, with now and then an original 18th-century stone farmhouse spruced up with copper gutters and an attached greenhouse to look new.'' 
 ''Better to come to earth in New Jersey than not to come at all,'' Frank observed 20 years ago, in ''The Sportswriter,'' adding, somewhat cryptically, that ''illusion will never be your adversary here.'' And the desire to live without illusions -- to be ''a literalist'' -- may be what drew Frank, who was once a promising writer of fiction, to the real estate business, which in New Jersey frequently involves something called ''earnest money.'' But for all his love of the real, the literal, the earnest -- for all his desire, if you will, to live up to his given name -- Frank does have a tendency to generalize, and to drive off into abstraction:
 ''There are many different kinds of people on the planet -- people who never let you forget a mistake, people who're happy to. People who almost drown as children and never swim again, and people who jump right back in and paddle off like ducks. There are people who marry the same woman over and over, while others have no scheme in their amours (I'm this man. It's not so bad). And there are definitely people who, when faced with misfeasance of a large and historical nature, even one that needn't cloud the present and forbid the future, just can't rest until the misfeasance is put right, redressed, battered to dust with study and attention so they can feel just fine about things and go forward with a clear heart -- whatever that might be.'' 
 Whatever indeed. But the point of this rambling is less to advance a coherent philosophy than to dramatize what it is like to try, in the face of constantly mutating, endlessly confusing experience, to come up with one. The cracked, fuzzy, sad-sack aphorisms that dot this novel's pages represent not the kernels of a man's wisdom, but rather the chaff of his personality: ''Misery may not love company. But discouragement definitely does.'' ''No one ever gets called a sap without feeling he probably is one.'' ''There's so little that's truly inexplicable in the world. Why should it be such a difficult place to live?'' 
 Good question. From the start -- or rather, from the earlier middle, since Frank was 38 when we first met him in ''The Sportswriter'' -- he has seemed like a pretty easygoing guy, so much so that it is possible to play down the significant hardships that have come his way. That novel, funny and feckless as it often is, unfolds under a heavy shadow: the death of Frank's 9-year-old son, Ralph, a few years before. In ''The Lay of the Land,'' intimations of mortality are everywhere, but they accumulate slowly, so that it is only in retrospect that you notice how thickly fatality hangs in the late autumn air. There is Frank's cancer, of course, which is being treated by radioactive pellets from the Mayo Clinic. Frank's first wife is now a widow, as his second wife always assumed she was. (The retraction of her widowhood is a long story -- one of the strangest and best set pieces in the book.) In the course of the three days (Tuesday, Wednesday and Turkey day) that contain the novel's action, there will be a funeral, a fatal bombing (at the hospital where Ralph died), news of a suicide, deaths by gunshot and by stroke. There will also be less literal reminders: the dynamiting of a grand old hotel; the discovery of a buried, potentially disastrous structural flaw in a house Frank is trying to sell; a car accident. And this is not to mention the annoyances and disruptions that might seem, to a more suspicious man, like bad omens -- the fight at the bar, the smashed car window, the voice in the night that seems to be whispering, ''Franky, Franky.''
 I'm afraid that this catalog of untoward incidents creates a doubly misleading impression of ''The Lay of the Land,'' which feels neither somber nor plot-heavy. There is plenty of comedy, of a low-key, whimsical kind, and the usual assortment of odd characters. Frank's occasional companion on the road is Mike Mahoney, his junior associate, adandyish Bush voter who is also -- what else? -- a Tibetan Buddhist (from ''the real Tibet, not the one in Ohio''). Frank also hooks up with Wade Arcenault, the cranky, elderly father of an old girlfriend, experiences a pang of lust directed at his daughter's ex-girlfriend, and banters with the lesbian clientele at the bar where his Divorced Men's Club used to meet long ago.
 For long stretches, though, nothing seems to be happening at all, because the action takes place entirely within Frank's consciousness, which ranges back and forth between past and present, filling in some biographical gaps while leaving plenty of loose ends dangling. As in the other two novels, which took place around holidays (Easter in ''The Sportswriter,'' the Fourth of July in ''Independence Day''), ''The Lay of the Land'' uses the approach of Thanksgiving to provide a loose narrative framework and a light cloak of metaphor. If the secondary characters at times seem a little vague -- even the beloved Clarissa and the vexing Paul, who have grown up in interesting ways -- that's because they are perceived through the filter of Frank's wandering attention. When he's not thinking about them, they fade.
 If there is a precedent for the Frank Bascombe novels to be found in American letters -- and I'm not sure there is, though Frank himself sometimes casts an eye in the direction of Emerson or Henry James -- it is not John Updike but the Saul Bellow of ''Augie March'' and ''Herzog,'' big, baggy novels of character whose heroes were far too emphatically themselves to be typical of anything. Like them, Frank Bascombe is not a type (though unlike them, he isn't Jewish), but rather the irreducible, expanding essence of himself.
 And so it can feel, writing about these books, that you are not evaluating a literary artifact so much as passing judgment on a person, a much more fretful and subjective task than criticism usually demands. I mean, Frank is, more or less officially, a nice guy, but I'm not always sure I like him. Charming as he is, decent as he is, smart as he is, he can be a little annoying. Spend three days driving back and forth from Haddam to Sea-Clift, and some of his mannerisms start to drive you crazy. Why does he insist on calling New York ''Gotham''? He has an impressive history with the ladies, but when he talks about sex he falls back on fussy, schoolboyish words like ''woogle,'' ''boink,'' ''woo-woo'' and ''raree,'' which almost makes you miss Rabbit Angstrom's lyrical evocations of pubic hair.
 But the point is, you must take Frank as he is, and admit him into your circle of intimates according to affinities that go deeper than literary taste. And accepting him -- extending your sympathy, laughing at his jokes, overlooking his crotchets and prejudices -- amounts nearly to an ethical imperative, the acknowledgment of his personhood. Elizabeth Hardwick, an infallible if occasionally inscrutable critic, once observed that ''Independence Day'' ''might be judged longer than it should be. But for whom?'' The same judgment might apply to the meander and sprawl of ''The Lay of the Land,'' and certainly to the hypothetical future Modern Library doorstop containing Frank Bascombe in full. But Hardwick's simple question goes to the heart of Richard Ford's accomplishment. Certainly, this novel is not too long for Frank. It's his life, and it would be cruel to begrudge him any of it. The novel's lovely last sentence evokes ''our human scale upon the land,'' and that touch of grandiloquence is well earned. By now, we have gotten to know Frank Bascombe well enough to take his measure, and to appreciate that, like almost no one else in our recent literature, he's life-size.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)Drawing (Drawing by Erik T. Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (86%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (69%); MOVIE REVIEWS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (56%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: AL GORE (54%) A O Scott; Richard Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



668 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3329 words

HEADLINE: What Do Women Want? Just Ask

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
FOR most of the 27 years it has been in business in Canada, Shane Homes has staked its claim as one of the country's leading regional homebuilders the old-fashioned way: it devised and executed cookie-cutter designs for new houses just as fast as the orders came in. As the economy of its home base, Calgary, Alberta, soared on the back of oil and gas riches, it could have continued minting money by sticking with that tried-and-true approach. But two years ago, smack in the middle of a housing boom and heightened competition, Shane Homes dumped its old ways and adopted a new blueprint. 
 The overhaul began at a real estate conference in 2003, when Shane Wenzel, the builder's namesake and its head of sales and marketing, heard a speech about the tremendous buying power of women. That moment, Mr. Wenzel recalled, was an ''epiphany.'' He set up small ''listening groups'' of women to tap into the needs of people who actually lived in his company's homes. What Mr. Wenzel heard wasn't pretty. ''The ladies never held back once,'' he said. ''They were brutally honest.'' 
The kitchens in the company's homes, the women said, were all wrong. The pantries were tiny, and the sinks needed to overlook a window so kids in the backyard could be monitored. And the mudrooms! They shared space with laundry rooms, meaning that dirty floors might sit right beneath clean laundry. (''It's called a mud/laundry room?'' one incredulous woman asked.) After that, Shane Homes subjected designs to similar grillings -- before they were built -- and adapted them accordingly.
 ''Shane Homes had the revolutionary idea of asking women what they wanted in a home,'' said Joanne Thomas Yaccato, a Toronto consultant and author who advised the company on female consumers. ''The revolutionary part is that they not only listened, they actually built the darn thing.'' 
 Shane Homes is hardly alone. More companies, in the United States and elsewhere, have realized that they overlook women at their own financial peril. The companies are realigning their marketing and design practices, learning to court an increasingly female-centric consumer base that boasts more financial muscle and purchasing independence than ever before.
 ''We are perhaps on the first step to a matriarchal society; women will earn more money than men if current trends continue by 2028,'' said Michael J. Silverstein of the Boston Consulting Group. ''The trend has been escalating in the last 10 years as there has been a gradual, slow erosion of the power balance in the family, a psychic rebalancing.'' 
 Women, Mr. Silverstein added, are ''controlling purchases and driving a shift in our economy.''
 Retailers like Home Depot, Lowe's, Sears, Best Buy and others recognize that women are running their households like purchasing managers. Some are ''identifying stores that have more female shoppers and offering additional services,'' including sales support, customized signs and special product displays, said Dana L. Telsey, who runs her own independent research firm. Travel companies, automakers, and other companies, meanwhile, have had to cater to the tastes of women who have careers outside the home and are pursuing hobbies and other pricey interests. The phenomenon is readily apparent on the Internet, where Web sites built around the needs and interests of such groups as female homeowners and car buyers have gained steady traction. 
 Much of that shift has to do with education and pay. At American colleges and universities, women represent 57 percent of undergraduate classes and 58 percent of graduate classes, according to the American Council on Education. (They also hold a slight majority in the overall population.) And education, in turn, has helped to bolster salaries and income. In 2005, government data show, women who were full-time wage and salary workers had median weekly earnings of $585, or 81 percent of the $722 median for their male counterparts, up from about 63 percent in 1979.
 ''Women are making 70 percent of travel decisions, for the family, for their own getaways or for people at work,'' said Niki Leondakis, the chief operating officer of Kimpton Hotels and Restaurants in San Francisco. ''It's surprising that more people are not including women in their marketing.''
 But some big retailers say they are, in fact, well aware of where purchasing power resides.
 Best Buy, for example, ''used to be a boy store, built by boys, for boys, but four to five years ago, there was a dramatic flip,'' said Julie Gilbert, a vice president with the company. That change, she said, occurred with the rise of must-have products like digital cameras, MP3 players, cellphones and other mobile devices, and products like flat-screen televisions that have became fashionable accessories for the home.
 ''Women are outspending men in our industry $55 billion to $41 billion,'' Ms. Gilbert said. ''Not only that, they are actually influencing 90 percent of the purchases. It is a new day in consumer electronics.''
 THE same may be true in financial services. MassMutual, which recently introduced ''Pearls of Wisdom,'' a video-based financial seminar, and added a women's page to its Web site, has taken the approach a step further. In August, it started a ''Selling to Women'' educational series to help its agents understand women's expectations and needs. ''When it comes to financial advisers, women will share the most intimate details of their lives,'' said Susan W. Sweetser, second vice president of the women's markets department at MassMutual. ''Women don't just buy based on information; they buy based on emotions, coupled with the facts.'' 
 Health care was the first industry to recognize and adapt to female buyers because it was clear that women were the gatekeepers for most families' health needs, according to Marti Barletta, president of the TrendSight Group, a research firm in Winnetka, Ill. Financial services was next, followed by home improvement and consumer electronics, she said, as marketers followed the money trail.
 While women have always influenced decisions about big-ticket household purchases, their direct spending has expanded substantially in recent years. 
 Women accounted for 33 percent of the purchases at big-box retailers in 2005, up from 28 percent in 2003, according to the NPD Group, a consumer research firm. ''That's a huge shift,'' said Mark J. Delaney, an NPD analyst, ''not to be taken lightly.'' To be sure, some companies have been examining the needs and interests of female consumers for years. The advertising agency Leo Burnett USA and its LeoShe division created its Girlfriend Groups research services in the 1990s to help clients understand how customers approach brands. 
 In its current form, Girlfriend Groups finds a volunteer who invites some friends to her house. Once there, they meet researchers who ask them questions about brands and products. ''We needed to go deep,'' said Denise Fedewa, executive vice president of Leo Burnett USA in Chicago. ''We wanted to really peel back their guard and tell us what was going on.''
 Ms. Fedewa said the research produced unusually honest and forthcoming results. In a more formal focus group held in a controlled setting, women might say, for example, that they kept only healthy foods in the cupboard for after-school snacks. But in Girlfriend Groups' research, conducted at a woman's house, friends would never let a woman get away with fibbing about what's in the cupboard, Ms. Fedewa said.
 Market researchers are now embracing women as much more than domestic divas. They recognize them as buyers with their own careers and fattened pocketbooks, who are finding plenty to do and plenty to buy outside the home. Over the last several years, a cottage industry of consultants and authors, all offering advice and analysis, has sprung up around the pervasiveness of women in the marketplace. A few years ago, Ms. Barletta said, she counted just three competitors; now she estimates that 15 to 20 consultants work in her field. 
 ON a recent Friday evening, Danisha Krause and three friends checked into the Hotel Palomar in Washington for a ''Glam Girls'' promotion held by Kimpton. The women are part of a larger group of mostly single women, aged 32 to 40, many of whom graduated from Virginia Tech and meet once a month for group suppers. They have traveled to places like Las Vegas and New York, but on this night the group of four decided to stay closer to home.
 For about $300 each, they booked a suite with two adjoining bedrooms and converted it into a party pad. When they arrived, the hotel gave them gift bags containing OPI nail polish that they swapped among themselves, based on their color preferences. They dined in the hotel's restaurant and then returned to their suite for a private Texas Hold 'Em lesson from a poker expert, while the hotel sent up a steady flow of cocktails and snacks. 
 ''We really had a good time,'' Ms. Krause said. ''We played a round of blackjack, and craps, too.''
 The Glam Girls package is part of the company's Women in Touch program, the brainchild of Ms. Leondakis. The program, now two years old, offers special promotions and amenities to female guests. ''I'm on the road so much,'' Ms. Leondakis said. ''I generally found that hotels didn't cater to the specific needs of women travelers.'' 
 She says that some hotels overlook female guests by not emphasizing their personal security -- or by offering an abundance of poorly designed rooms. For example, what 5-foot-4 woman has not had to jump up to see herself in hotel mirrors that do not provide full-length views? And why, in so many bathrooms, can makeup supplies fall so easily into the toilet?
 Kimpton says 48 percent of its guests are women -- compared with a lodging industry norm of 42 percent -- and it addresses their needs with rooms that offer more lighting and closet space, better mirrors, bathroom shelves, hand-held steamers and items like razors and toothpaste. There are also in-room wellness programs featuring yoga, Pilates and meditation. And don't forget in-room safes. ''We like to travel with jewelry and we don't want to wait in line at the front desk,'' Ms. Leondakis said.
 Other companies are tapping into this same rich vein. Melody Biringer, founded Crave Party in Seattle in 2000 with the idea of events that weave together shopping, bonding and professional networking. Each party has a theme; the women pay a small fee and gather in one location where there is food, shopping and services like manicures and massages. The company's motto is ''Everything you crave, under one roof.'' 
 Ms. Biringer said she started Crave Party because her life as a married entrepreneur prevented her from seeing her best friend more than twice a year. 
 ''I decided that was not acceptable,'' Ms. Biringer said. ''Life gets in the way. I craved her, and hence the name. I decided I needed to start a business to get women together.''
 Crave is now licensed in 13 cities; Ms. Biringer sponsors six parties a year in Seattle. Early on, she said, the parties were aimed at younger women, but after their first visit, the women would return with their mothers. So the groups now attract women 30 to 50 years old. 
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Biringer offered a ''Girls at Play'' party at the Fisher Pavilion-Seattle Center. For $25 each, about 200 participants dined on Mexican salads, shopped and enjoyed activities like yoga, Pilates and dance boot-camp classes; makeup tips; and an active-wear show. They left with a gift bag of goodies. 
 Ms. Biringer also arranges travel shopping trips for small groups of women to places like Los Angeles and New York. ''Some of us end up in Prada, some of us in Century 21, but we always have a blast and, yes, ring up the purchases,'' said Barbara Travers, who also attended a Crave Party in Seattle in August. ''I'm usually the one dragging us into four-star restaurants and wine shops; they're usually dragging me into Henri Bendel and Saks.''
 Group events like these are tailored to women's interests, Ms. Biringer said. ''We need to get away from it all and be with our trusted friends,'' she said. ''Despite what people think, we don't really pamper ourselves that much. When we do, we're really happy, and men appreciate that.''
 Men might also appreciate that more women are handy around the house. Just ask Heidi Baker and Eden Jarrin, the Janes of BeJane.com, the online community they formed in 2003 with another entrepreneur, Phil Breman, and have aimed at women who are do-it-yourselfers. Ms. Baker, who is called the ''chief Jane officer,'' and Ms. Jarrin, the chief executive, taught themselves how to do home improvement projects, and they share the knowledge on their Web site. 
 Both women also bought their own homes before they married their husbands. That makes them representatives of another trend: single women are the fastest-growing segment of home buyers, according to the National Association of Realtors, purchasing 21 percent of homes, compared with just 9 percent for single men.
 According to Be Jane more women are undertaking home improvement projects on their own. ''We've seen a huge shift in everything: jobs, wages, home-buying,'' Ms. Baker said. Do-it-yourself home improvement, she said, ''is one of the last realms.''
 Even so, Ms. Baker says stereotypes persist in the marketplace. In a blog posting in September with the heading, ''Sorry Sweetie, You Need to Hire Someone,'' Ms. Baker related the following encounter at a home improvement store:
 ''I walked into the lighting section and asked a guy to where I could find the dimmers. Once he takes me there, he turns and makes some comment about how I need to make sure to check with the electrician who's going to install it. My response was that I would be putting it in myself. As if I hadn't even said a thing, he tells me, 'Oh honey, you really do need to hire someone to do this for you so you don't burn the house down.' '' 
 The two ''Janes'' shrug off such experiences. ''We are building a lifestyle so women can learn how to feel confident in the home,'' Ms. Jarrin said. 
 Data suggests that women are feeling quite confident. According to the NPD Group, women bought 47 percent of all painting supplies sold in the United States in June, up from 42 percent in 2003. And they buy about half of all new bathtubs, up from 35 percent. 
 WHAT BeJane.com is to home improvement, AskPatty.com hopes to be for women and cars. While there are just two Janes, a whole panel of expert automotive women are behind AskPatty, which gives women a blog and a Web site to post questions about all aspects of automobile transactions and maintenance.
 The site, which has no advertising, is rolling out an AskPatty Certified Dealership Program. Dealers that complete it are deemed to be female friendly and are searchable by ZIP code. The company has given its seal of approval to 25 dealerships and says that hundreds more have inquired about joining the list.
 Just who is Patty?
 ''Patty is a mom, daughter, wife, niece, grandmother and auntie,'' the site explains in part. ''Patty is young, old, married, single, an experienced driver, a new driver, a racecar driver, a hot rod driver, a classic car driver, a minivan driver, a truck driver, a luxury car driver, an S.U.V. driver, a disabled driver, a carpool driver.''
 Jody DeVere, president of AskPatty, which was formed last summer, notes that women buy more than50 percent of the new cars and trucks sold in the United States. In 2005, based on data from National Automobile Dealers Association, that amounted to about $200 billion spent on about eight million new vehicles. Although women also bought about half of new cars and trucks a decade ago, Ms. DeVere said, their approach to those decisions has changed.
 ''The main difference is that women are beginning to understand their purchasing power,'' she said. ''They are now beginning to demand better treatment and have gotten their voice.'' While there are some other valuable auto-buying sites for women, like Edmunds.com/women, Ms. DeVere said, AskPatty is different in that ''it is from women by women, but more than that, AskPatty is heartfelt. It's not just words and information.''
 After spending hours on the Internet researching a new car over several months, Beverly McMullen of Upland, Calif., hit upon the AskPatty site. She has a physical disability and needed specific auto modifications.
 She visited the site before and after her family bought a 2006 Saturn Vue. Ms. DeVere responded personally to her questions, passing along useful information. Ms. McMullen said she was hesitant about asking for help, but was glad that she did.
 ''It seemed like I had a task force supporting me,'' she said in an e-mail exchange. ''AskPatty really jump-started what had seemed like a dead end for me.'' 
 The Internet is also a resource for women taking charge of their own finances. It was only a few decades ago that women -- who now buy a big share of products like tires, power tools, lawn mowers, computers, consumer electronics and, of course, homes -- could not get a bank loan without a male co-signer, regardless of whether they had their own income.
 These days, some women are literally opening their checkbooks to the world on blogs like MyOpenWallet and BostonGal'sOpenWallet, which is run by a woman who identifies herself online only as Jane Dough, to protect her privacy (www.bostongalsopenwallet.blogspot.com). The blog tracks her personal assets monthly (valued at $412,435.59 in October) and calls itself ''the ongoing chronicle of a single 30-something Bostonian who is seeking enlightenment and control of her net worth.'' 
 In a telephone interview, she explained that she started blogging a year ago, after she bought a house and paid off her student loans and credit cards. ''I started to feel adrift,'' she said. ''What do I do next? How do I keep motivated?'' The blog was her answer.
 In her first post, she said: ''Speaking publicly about your personal finances has always been a no-no in my family. The result of this is that I often felt unprepared and uneducated about financial matters. I am now in my mid-30's, single, with a fairly well established professional career. Because I live alone, I make all the financial decisions in my life -- good or bad.
 ''If your parents and peers can't or won't show you the way, hopefully sites like this on the Web will.'' 
 For its part, Best Buy is more than willing to show them the way. Online, Best Buy has added ''click to call,'' so that a shopper can ask a representative to call her back at a time she requests to help with buying decisions. In the stores, it has made the aisles cleaner and wider and added shopping bags as an alternative to carts.
 BACK in Calgary, Shane Homes plans to start a new listening group in November, and to keep it going until next summer. Mr. Wenzel, who is 34, says Ms. Yaccato's advice and book -- ''The 80 Percent Minority: Reaching the Real World of Women Consumers,'' which stipulates that women control 80 percent of every consumer dollar spent -- inspired him to create the listening groups.
 Shane Homes, whose revenue doubled in six years, to more than 180 million Canadian dollars in fiscal 2005-06, also went beyond listening. It asked women in the groups to design two homes, both named after Ms. Yaccato. Those and other suggestions were incorporated into the design of a house called the Yaccato 2, which went on to win a design award in Alberta. 
 Shane Homes sold nine Yaccato 2's in 2005 and has sold five so far this year. Many of the its features have also been incorporated into the designs of the company's other model homes. 
 Mr. Wenzel says that Shane Homes now takes about five times longer to design a home than it did just a few years ago. 
 ''It's critiqued once, twice, three times,'' he said. ''It's a longer process, but we end up with better designs.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A focus group joined Shane Wenzel, third from right, of Shane Homes
Joanne Thomas Yaccato, a consultant
and Cal Wenzel, right, the company's chief executive, at a home in Calgary, Alberta. The group's suggestions were used in the home's design. (Photo by Ken McCurdy for Shane Homes)
Melody Biringer, founder of Crave Party, during a Crave party in Seattle. The company's parties combine shopping, bonding and professional networking for women. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)
Heidi Baker, left, and Eden Jarrin cut molding for a project. The women helped create Be Jane, a Web site for women who like to do home improvement projects. (Photo by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)
 From left, Danisha Krause, Cheryl McCullough, Kate Dakiet and Della Cronin get a poker lesson during a Glam Girls weekend at a hotel in Washington. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Drawing (Drawing by Matt Collins)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Gaining Ground''WOMEN'S EARNINGS AS A PERCENTAGE OF MEN'S EARNINGS -- full-time wage and salary workers, ages 16 and olderGraph tracks women's earnings as a percentage of men's earnings since 1980.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); WOMEN'S MARKET (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); RETAILERS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); WOMEN (73%); TRENDS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) Retail Stores and Trade; Women; Consumer Behavior; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Npd Group; Home Depot Inc; Lowe's Companies; Sears Holdings; Best Buy Co 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Mickey Meece

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ALBERTA, CANADA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



669 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2667 words

HEADLINE: Now Playing In Europe: The Future Of Detroit

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: VALENCIENNES, France 

 BODY:
WALK inside Toyota's five-year-old factory here, an hour's drive from the Belgian border, and step into a world stuck on fast-forward. Yellow forklifts speed down aisles bearing fresh supplies of parts, forcing visitors to flatten themselves against the concrete walls as the deliveries go by.
 Huge stamping presses beat out an ear-splitting rhythm of ''ca-chunks'' as they bang out metal sides and roofs for the small Yaris cars built here. Deep inside the plant, injection-molding machines spit out brightly colored front and rear bumpers, looking like so many Lego pieces, which are loaded onto racks to be towed to the assembly line.
By contrast, the atmosphere at BMW's plant in Leipzig, Germany, is decidedly more refined. Its soaring gray and silver factory, designed two years ago by the architect Zaha Hadid, is the equivalent of automaking by Armani. 
 Unpainted car bodies, their sheet metal the hue of brushed pewter, ride silently through the plant lobby, lighted from beneath in blue, providing a perfect accent to the colors of the building.
 Outsiders are not allowed near these 3-Series models; instead, they must observe production from a catwalk above the assembly line. Below, in what seems more like a very expensive kitchen than a factory floor, workers clad in neat coveralls stroll along an assembly line that spreads into a series of fingers, the places where the real work goes on.
 These two plants, one high-volume, the other high-end, may seem to have little in common with each other, let alone with the United States car market. But together, these plants -- and the niches they serve -- may offer some idea of what lies ahead for American automakers on their home turf. 
 During the past, awful year for Detroit, industry executives and experts have been puzzling through what will become of General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler Group. One potential future consists of total disaster, with the Detroit automakers vanquished by their Asian and European rivals. This is an option that only those with a doomsday complex really believe, given the Detroit companies' billions in cash and broad infrastructure. Another potential outcome is that the Big Three vanquish the competition to again rule American roads, a prospect that has faded in 30 years of fighting the imports and is even more improbable now that foreign companies hold nearly half of the market.
 A third option, much more likely than the others, is for G.M., Ford and Chrysler to adapt to a new American market that in many ways resembles Europe's: a fragmented bazaar that has little in common with the mass-production ethos of Detroit's first century. In this new American market, it is very hard to profitably support enough different brands and models to guarantee ''a car for every purse and purpose,'' which Alfred P. Sloan, as G.M.'s president, declared to be the company's mission in the 1920s.
 RATHER than trying to be all things to all people, Toyota, BMW and other successful carmakers on both continents are concentrating on a different strategy: find a niche, hone it and own it. In Europe, for example, the market is not dominated by any single player or small group of players with market shares that dwarf smaller competitors the way G.M., Ford and Chrysler once did in the United States. Instead, Europe's car sales are splintered such that 5 percent is enough to make a difference, and 20 percent is more than anyone can expect.
 ''There's no case anywhere in the world of any previously dominant manufacturer retaining much more than 20 percent once the market is opened to full global competition,'' G.M.'s vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, said in a recent interview.
 As is the case in Europe, no auto company in America can automatically count on selling hundreds of thousands of one particular model annually as they could even five years ago, meaning that they must find ways to profitably stay on top of market trends -- or be left in the dust. In Europe and increasingly in America, consumers are demanding the latest in environmental technology, both to save gasoline, as with hybrids, or to avoid using it altogether, as with diesel-powered cars.
 While some national loyalty lingers in Europe, as it does in the United States, no company can rely on such loyalty to sell cars. Carmakers are forced to continually update their brand images in order to stand out in a crowded market. At the same time, like their European counterparts, America's unionized autoworkers must also adjust. They cannot count much longer on the cushy contracts that typified their jobs in the past, because new deals at new factories have chipped away at pay and benefits while emphasizing more-productive work methods.
 European companies have long competed this way, but it is a new reality for American carmakers who were so dominant for much of the last century. As recently as 1990, G.M., Ford and Chrysler together sold more than 70 percent of the cars bought in the United States; G.M. alone accounted for more than one-third of auto sales.
 Now those companies' American market share has dropped to around 50 percent, while the influence of Toyota and other foreign manufacturers is growing. Though G.M. remains on top, its share has slipped below one-quarter, and the battleground has become the section between 10 percent and 20 percent of the market. That is the area where Ford and Chrysler have slipped and where Toyota and Honda have grown. 
 In many ways, the changes in the United States have European parallels. Toyota is also rising in Europe, where its market share has more than doubled over the last 10 years, to about 5.7 percent. It has forged the gains by focusing on one segment, well-made small cars, and pursuing it with single-minded determination. Its factory here in Valenciennes is evidence of that focus.
 Inside the factory offices, the plant manager, Didier Leroy, sits in front of an electronic tally board that shows the plant's production goals for the day and the number of vehicles it has actually built. This board, along with others inside the plant, gave a disappointing picture on a recent afternoon, showing that workers had fallen behind their target.
 But Mr. Leroy, who resembles a red-haired version of the actor Marcello Mastroianni, confides with a smile that managers intentionally set the targets a little too high, to keep workers focused on their tasks. If employees believe that they are falling behind, he says, pointing to the board, they will work more vigorously than if they think the day's objective is easy to achieve.
 The workers in Valenciennes need little reminder of what happens to people who cannot compete. Only about 75 miles up the Paris-Brussels highway are the remnants of a factory in Vilvoorde, Belgium, that Renault shuttered in the late 1990s because it could not operate it at a profit.
 There is little chance of the Valenciennes factory meeting a similar fate. It is among Toyota's most important plants worldwide -- ranked even above its American operations, to hear some inside Toyota put it. An important reason lies inside the body shop, where major structural parts of the car are welded together.
 Valenciennes was the first Toyota plant outside Japan to receive what the company calls its Global Body Line: a configuration of robots that can be programmed to build a number of different styles of vehicles without having to modify the entire factory. Today, that same body line is in Toyota's plants in Kentucky and Indiana, and has been installed in the pickup factory that Toyota will open next month in San Antonio.
 While the Valenciennes plant builds only one model, the Yaris, it produces it in four configurations -- left-hand and right-hand drive, and equipped with gasoline and diesel engines. Each configuration requires different parts and production steps. That flexibility, which can also be harnessed to produce wholly different models on the same assembly line at the same time, is a hallmark of Toyota's factories around the world, and an example that other companies, both in Europe and the United States, are striving to emulate.
 Just last week, for instance, Alan R. Mulally, the former Boeing executive who has been Ford's chief executive for less than a month, stressed that Ford's plants must become more flexible if the automaker is to pull out of its sales tailspin. The company said last week that it lost $5.8 billion in the third quarter amid plummeting sales.
 David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich., said that American carmakers must change, and fast, or risk disaster. ''For an automobile manufacturer, big and slow doesn't work anymore,'' he said. ''Big and fast gives you a chance.''
 In Valenciennes, the word ''big'' is not in the vocabulary. Even a few years back, Toyota might have allowed more room on the assembly line to accommodate differences among the various kinds of Yaris cars it makes. But the crowded floors suggest that it decided otherwise, and Toyota is deliberately keeping things that way.
 As the company builds more plants around the world -- including another in the United States that could be announced soon -- they are more likely to be compact facilities like the one here in Valenciennes; it would fit into a corner of Toyota's sprawling factory in Georgetown, Ky., which produces hundreds of thousands of Camrys and other models each year.
 EVEN more important, as Toyota considers how it will operate its factories in the United States and elsewhere, it is monitoring how managers and workers in France handle a 24-hour operation.
 Toyota's sales in Europe are growing much faster than expected -- it is on a pace to meet its 2010 target of selling 1.2 million cars a year by 2008 -- and it needs to wring every possible vehicle out of its factories here to meet that demand. The same is becoming true in the United States, where Toyota passed DaimlerChrysler this year for the No. 3 spot in sales, and now seems likely to pass Ford as No. 2, behind G.M.
 Still, the constant production here is a risk for Toyota, which has had a long practice of sharing ideas among its factories around the world. As the company's only 24-hour-a-day production site, Valenciennes now has no such sister plant and must act as an independent player, Mr. Leroy said.
 By contrast, BMW's sparkling factory in Leipzig has a distinct New World relative: BMW's plant near Spartanburg, S.C., the inspiration for the factory's layout. The German facility, which is fast rivaling Bach's grave as Leipzig's favorite tourist attraction, has a legion of similarities to the South Carolina factory. That is no surprise, because the Leipzig plant manager, Peter Claussen, was in charge of developing the American plant.
 The Spartanburg facility, which began production in 1994, was BMW's first venture outside Germany, and it initially prompted a debate over whether Americans could produce real BMWs. Likewise, the decision by BMW to build a factory in Leipzig, in the former East Germany, instead of in a cheaper location in central Europe, raised eyebrows for the same reason. But just as BMW scored valuable political points by setting up shop in the America's rural South, it won hearts in Germany by building its showplace in a region where the unemployment rate is 20 percent, twice as high as it is in the rest of the country. ''It's unbelievable,'' said James Oehlschager, 31, who works in the plant's body shop. ''I can't describe the meaning for East Germany that BMW decided to come here.''
 One reason BMW went to Leipzig was labor costs. While the factory is unionized, its pay rates average 20 percent less than what BMW pays its workers at its home base in Bavaria. The company also has the flexibility in Leipzig to vary the working hours, a perennial sticking point at other European auto factories.
 Despite that, Mr. Oehlschager said workers did not feel like second-class citizens. ''Compared to other salaries in the region, it's a top level,'' he said.
 Like Spartanburg's factory, the Leipzig plant is divided into three main sections: body shop, paint shop and assembly area. Each can work independently, so a bottleneck at one need not stop the whole plant.
 Visitors who gaze down at the section of the assembly line available to public view are missing the part of the plant where the real work occurs, a series of mini-lines that shoot off from the trunk like branches. Forklifts do not race down the assembly line the way they do at the frenzied Toyota factory in Valenciennes. Instead, they deliver parts to the end of each branch, and then components are sent down the line to the spots where workers need them. If BMW needs to increase production here, it will not rip up the main line; it will just extend the length of each limb.
 Even with that capability, BMW is not itching to expand. Nor is Toyota. The companies have similar shares of the European market, each just under 6 percent, and are leery of the hazards of growing too quickly.
 ''We do not believe in this incurable bigness,'' Michael Ganal, a member of the BMW board, said last month in an interview at the Paris Motor Show. ''Yes, you can create economies of scale if you grow, but it is better to run a fast and successful manufacturer.''
 In a separate interview at the Paris show, Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, agreed that reflexive pursuit of market share is not necessarily the right strategy. ''If you have strong brands and satisfied former customers, you already have a brilliant strategy,'' he said.
 Such caution has historically been rare in the United States, and John Casesa, managing partner of the Casesa Shapiro Group, an investment advisory firm, said American auto executives must come to grips with it.
 ''The concentrated oligopoly structure is gone,'' Mr. Casesa said. ''Plant by plant, Detroit has had to adjust its thinking. Detroit doesn't have any products that can fill a single plant any more'' except for a handful of high-volume vehicles like Ford's F-Series pickups or the new trucks that G.M. is about to introduce.
 THERE are signs, however, that American executives are getting the message. Ford shocked the automotive world this summer by announcing that it would cut its production by one-fifth during the final three months of the year, its single-biggest reduction in more than two decades. Nearly all of the cuts are at plants that built only sport utility vehicles or pickups, whose sales plummeted as gas prices spiked. In an interview last week, Mr. Mulally said it was incumbent on Ford to end its dependence on big vehicles and to turn to the more-nimble production model provided by Toyota.
 That makes the flexibility of factories like Toyota's in Valenciennes even more important as American companies stare at their European-influenced future.
 Yet Mr. Leroy said the factory had been valuable in another sense. As with its American plants, Toyota's French factory has helped convince Europeans it is acceptable to own a car built by a Japanese company. Customer surveys have shown that they think of the Yaris as a French car, he said.
 If such blending of perception is possible in Europe, where national identities have long been strong, the American market cannot be far behind. But for their part, American executives need not fear that their industry's influence will be forgotten.
 On a recent weekend, Mr. Claussen of BMW went to his bookshelf to seek guidance on solving a problem in the Leipzig factory. He found a solution in ''My Life and Work,'' written by Henry Ford in the 1920s.
 Back then, Mr. Ford offered advice that still sounds appropriate today, as American companies look to Leipzig, Valenciennes and elsewhere for hints of the future.
 ''If there is any great secret of success in life,'' he wrote, ''it lies in the ability to put yourself in the other person's place and to see things from his point of view -- as well as your own.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At BMW's plant in Leipzig, Germany, a 3-Series coupe glides to the paint shop. BMW has thrived in Europe's fragmented market by focusing on a niche. (Photo by Adam Berry/Bloomberg News)(pg. 1)
At Toyota's plant in Valenciennes, body panels are prepared for the production line. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
Didier Leroy, manager of the Valenciennes plant, said Toyota's decision to produce cars in France helped convince Europeans it was acceptable to own a Japanese car. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 The exterior, left, and interior of BMW's plant in Leipzig, Germany, designed by the architect Zaha Hadid. It has several assembly lines which can be adjusted to increase output. (Photographs by Adam Berry/Bloomberg News)(pg. 8)Chart: ''No Longer an Ocean Apart''The U.S. auto market is looking more like Europe's as the share of the Big Three has declined in an increasingly fragmented industry.MARKETSHARE OF TOP-10 AUTOMAKERS, 1990 to 2006IN THE UNITED STATESG.M.: 24.5%Ford: 16.8%DaimlerChrysler: 12.8%Toyota: 15.2%Honda: 9.1%Nissan: 6.1%Hyundai: 2.8%VW: 1.9%Kia: 1.7%Mazda: 1.6%IN WESTERN EUROPEVW: 19.6%Peugeot Citroen: 13.3%Ford: 10.7%G.M.: 10.3%Renault: 8.8%Fiat: 7.6%DaimlerChrysler*: 6.2%Toyota: 5.7%BMW: 5.3%Nissan: 2.1%2006 figures through September*Mercedes figures prior to merger(Sources by Association Auxiliaire de l'Automobile, Motor Intelligence)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Automobiles; Industry Profiles; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Advertising and Marketing; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%); WALLS AS (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (72%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (67%) Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (90%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



670 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Praise and Blame

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WOOD. 
Michael Wood teaches English and comparative literature at Princeton. His most recent book is ''Literature and the Taste of Knowledge.''

 BODY:
FALLING UPWARDS
 Essays in Defense of the Imagination.
 By Lee Siegel.
 337 pp. Basic Books. $25.
''The novel is collapsing into memoir,'' Lee Siegel tells us in his introduction to this collection of alternately pugnacious and sentimental essays. ''More and more novels and plays are based on real events, or on earlier novels and plays.'' Once upon a time in America, ''the creative world's ranks were ordered according to personal gifts and idiosyncrasy, audacity and the capacity for self-reinvention. Now, in New York, you go to a literary, artistic or intellectual party and you encounter the same pecking order that exists in the conventional world.'' We turn our lives into trashy art and become suspicious of all art that won't cater to our simplest, most easily gratified needs. And no one, it seems, is worrying about this. ''We hear nothing about how the individual work of art in our time, in the particulars of its form and content, has assimilated not just the values of commercial society, but the vast supple consciousness that a universal spirit of commercialism fosters: get your own, and get it fast, and do it behind a virtuous appearance and with an optimistic air.'' 
 Much of this argument is too shallow to be wrong. The novel is collapsing into memoir only if you pay no attention to what many good novelists are doing, and a person who thinks ''best-selling novels, like 'The Da Vinci Code,' read like actual histories'' needs to read a little more history. The attractive opposite of the contemporary pecking order is not another pecking order, but a realm where pecking is not the main issue. And if you are seeking audacity or a resistance to convention, perhaps a New York party is not the best place to start, even if you could float back into the early days of The Partisan Review. Still, Siegel has a point. There is a lot of expensive trash in the culture, and a lot of easy virtue. And good books and films do get ignored or sidelined.
 Siegel tells us that he had ''always been a reader'' as a child, but ''turned more purposefully to books'' when his father became unemployed. Hamlet, Raskolnikov, Cordelia, Ahab, Darcy, Hurstwood: ''The incidents in those characters' lives never stood humiliatingly alone, trapped behind the bars of monotone facts. ... Art imprismed me in its extenuating colors, and the multiplicity of truth -- of morals to be drawn -- set me free.'' This is a touching passage, although the imagery makes it hard not to hear ''imprismed'' as ''imprisoned,'' and there is a clue to the limits of Siegel's criticism here. He is never free of the feeling of not being free. He uses high art to attack his low contemporaries, and what he calls ''life'' to attack everyone else who writes about art. ''There is nothing literary about an effective novel,'' he absurdly writes, and Chekhov makes us want ''to talk not about literature ... but about life itself.''
 Let's not pause over the use of the word ''literary'' as a term of abuse -- there have been good philistine critics at least since Dr. Johnson. And in spite of the floppy vocabulary above, Siegel is quite acute about art he considers close to life, and writes better when he gets down to details. 
 Here he is, for example, on a Russian painting, Kramskoi's ''Christ in the Wilderness'' (1872): ''Kramskoi's Jesus has the demeanor of a modern, urban man. Anomie enshrouds him. No supernatural phenomena appear around this Christ; his temptations come from within, and they take the form of familiar anguish and doubt. He is clasping his hands tightly between his knees, like a humble petitioner in a bureaucratic waiting room. ... He could be sitting crisis-ridden in a St. Petersburg park.'' 
 And here he is on Jane Austen's sentences: ''Like her self-deceived heroines, they are usually a little blind. They bear hints of their own impending amplification, qualification, contradiction. ... We feel propelled by a coming displacement of meaning.'' 
 In these essays drawn from the pages of The New Republic, Harper's and other publications, Siegel celebrates Harry Potter, John Updike, ''The Sopranos'' and Kubrick's ''Eyes Wide Shut,'' and excoriates queer theory and Barbara Kingsolver. In a wildly anachronistic and Americanized reading of Dante, he manages an interesting diagnosis of a form of egoism that hides from the self: ''The truth is ... few people want to read honest self-description. A full, unsparing account of one's self would be a full, unsparing and perhaps unbearable exposure of social and political and cultural reality. It would include not just our stories and afflictions and memories but our ability to injure and to deceive, to hurt and to kill.''
 Siegel knows how to praise and to blame, but he can't do both at the same time. ''Supple,'' for him, always means shifty, never means graceful. Of course, he would be right to note the slack in sentences like the following: ''Yellow ribbons swelled from suburban front doors. ... But this folklore, a prayer of godspeed to the killers, allowed no possibility that the vanquished might also be human.'' ''It's the difference between a more perfectly ordered world as shiny as a new pair of shoes and that precious, dirty, fraying old pair of sneakers (one of which lies hidden in shadows under the bed) that poets call the human heart.'' ''But we know, in our heart of hearts, that there are times when we must follow our instincts, obey our intuition, take advice from the deepest part of ourselves.'' 
 No decent critic would miss the mush and self-congratulation here -- but isn't there also, struggling among these rather helpless and maudlin verbal gestures, an attempt to say something that matters? Siegel might conceivably agree, since although the first sentence comes from Kingsolver, the other two are his own. 
 We need to return to the story of the child who began to read so eagerly and found so many morals in literature. Is this tale true? Why would we ask? People get fired, children step up their reading. And if it isn't true -- if Siegel's father never lost his job and Siegel had read only Barbara Kingsolver before he went to college -- what would we think? What should we think? That mere anecdote doesn't matter either way, perhaps, but Siegel doesn't believe we are capable of leaving the life of gossip alone, and goes to extraordinary lengths to prove his point. In a later essay -- the one in which he skewers Kingsolver for writing ''so facilely about lost people'' among other sins -- the father is brutal as well as unemployed, the mother is sluttish and occasionally incestuous, a sister has brain damage, and a brother is an addict, who fortunately gets straightened out by his caring black wife. There is also an uncle who has been in jail, whose companion is H.I.V. positive. ''I have a pretty good life now,'' Siegel writes, ''but I cannot forget those nights'' -- the ones when every wounded family member was either crying or whimpering or screaming or sobbing or weeping or banging on the wall.
 Quite a chorus, and even the dimmest of us will suspect there is something wrong with this scenario. I thought, for instance, that Siegel had been reading too many memoirs too purposefully. But no. He was just lying. ''I made everything up,'' he explains. ''I meant it to be satire. Ihave passed beyond the boundary of good taste, and I apologize to anyone I have offended, since I know that the situations I described happen.'' He sacrificed his own stylistic dignity in order to teach us a lesson. But what lesson? That we shouldn't boast about our sufferings, even the real ones, and perhaps especially not the real ones? That suffering is in fashion, and that ''Calamity Writing,'' as Siegel calls it, is bad news? That suffering in writing becomes real only when the writing is really good? Siegel's own explicit moral is slightly different: ''The actuality and the complexity of suffering: that is precisely my point.'' A fine point, but surely the thick-edged satire manages only to mangle and bury the qualities it seeks to defend?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Christian Oth/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (73%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Michael Wood; Lee Siegel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



671 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: The Rising

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a regular contributor to the Book Review. He is writing a book about neoconservatism.

 BODY:
TWELVE DAYS
 The Story of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution.
 By Victor Sebestyen.
 Illustrated. 340 pp. Pantheon Books. $26.

FAILED ILLUSIONS
 Moscow, Washington, Budapest, and
 the 1956 Hungarian Revolt.
 By Charles Gati.
 264 pp. Stanford University Press. $24.95.

JOURNEY TO A REVOLUTION
 A Personal Memoir and History of 
 the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.
 By Michael Korda.
 Illustrated. 221 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95. 
Empires, as the United States is belatedly discovering, are treacherous enterprises. The subjects are usually ungrateful, if not mutinous, the military and economic costs high, the rewards murky. Even the international bragging rights that come with imperial pomp tend to dwindle in proportion to the amount of force that is required to bludgeon the locals into submission. This was the conundrum Stalin's squabbling heirs faced in Eastern Europe after his death in 1953. As they engaged in a protracted power struggle inside the Kremlin, one by one the captive nations, as they were known in the United States, attempted a jailbreak. First the East Germans rebelled in June 1953, then, three years later, the Poles. No uprising, however, proved more fateful than the 1956 Hungarian revolution.
 Three new books provide a splendid opportunity to revisit it. Victor Sebestyen's ''Twelve Days'' offers a gripping, detailed reconstruction of the revolution; Charles Gati's ''Failed Illusions,'' a searching, scholarly account of the political calculations of the Kremlin, the White House and the Hungarian Communist leadership; and Michael Korda's ''Journey to a Revolution,'' an engrossing and moving memoir. Despite their very different approaches, these works have some important things in common: each of the authors has a personal connection to Hungarian history and culture; each refers to newly available documents from the Soviet and American archives; each casts a cold eye on American declarations of a crusade for democracy behind the Iron Curtain; and above all, each shows that -- just as George F. Kennan had predicted -- Stalin's vast empire contained the seeds of its own demise.
 After World War II, Stalin's Hungarian puppets succeeded, against some pretty stiff competition, in earning the distinction of becoming the most vicious and destructive Communist leadership in Eastern Europe. Stalin wanted no mercy shown to a country that had allied itself with Nazi Germany, and Prime Minister Matyas Rakosi drew on the full panoply of totalitarian methods -- forced collectivization, arrests, torture, terror and show trials, complete with ''Zionist'' and fascist plots. The party leaders included Jews -- handpicked by Stalin possibly because they would be even more hated by the Hungarian population and thus totally reliant on Moscow. This crew, Korda writes, ''could have taught lessons in cruelty, deceit, betrayal and hypocrisy to Shakespeare's Richard III.''
 In building up the secret police, the leadership relied on former fascist Arrow Cross members, who had murdered as many Jews as they could get their hands on during World War II. According to Sebestyen, more than 1.3 million people were prosecuted between 1950 and 1953, while three concentration camps held over 40,000 inmates. What's more, almost half of the 850,000 members of the Communist Party ended up in prison, labor camps, exiled or dead during these years. Disaster loomed. This orgy of violence quickly ran Hungary, formerly the breadbasket of Europe, into the ground, prompting an alarmed Soviet leadership to oust Rakosi in June 1953 and substitute another loyalist named Imre Nagy.
 By 1955, however, Rakosi engineered his rival's downfall. The Soviet leadership accused Nagy of the all-purpose sin of ''bourgeois nationalism.'' Writers and intellectuals, who would play an important role during the uprising, flocked to Nagy. ''If 10 or so Hungarian writers had been shot at the right moment, the revolution would never have occurred,'' Nikita Khrushchev later lamented. But Khrushchev's own denunciation of Stalin as a mass murderer in 1956 at the 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party undermined the Hungarian leadership. Hungarians began openly to denounce Rakosi for his cult of personality, while hailing Nagy.
 As Sebestyen demonstrates, the Kremlin dithered about how to respond to the uprising, which started on Oct. 22 with a manifesto called the Sixteen Points drawn up by students at the Budapest Technological University. This was followed by urban guerrilla warfare. Soviet troops based in Hungary were totally unprepared, and as the revolution accelerated, they retreated. Nagy, who had been restored to power by popular acclaim, was trapped between his own belief in Communism and an increasingly radicalized population. While Nagy wrung his hands, Khrushchev, who said that ''Budapest was like a nail in my head'' (and who knew that the French and British seizure of the Suez Canal would give him additional cover), finally decided on a policy of shock and awe, sending in 500,000 troops. Nagy was arrested. But this time he was unflinching. In an act of heroism that remains revered in Hungary, he refused to confess to being a fascist counterrevolutionary, and was hanged in 1958. Thousands of other Hungarians, some of them teenagers, were either imprisoned or executed. But never again would the Kremlin launch a full-scale military attack in its Eastern European empire.
 If it took Moscow a few weeks to decide upon its course of action, the same could not be said of the United States. Despite promiscuous pledges to roll back Communism, President Dwight Eisenhower and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles had no intention of rolling back anything. In a National Security Council meeting, Vice President Richard Nixon even stated that a Soviet invasion would not be an unmixed evil for the West, as it would bolster the alliance against Communism. Then, as now, what Gati quite correctly calls the Republican right's ''fundamentalist rhetoric of liberation'' was simply pious nonsense that ended up having lethal consequences. As Korda recounts, when he and several friends entered Budapest in their VW with a British flag draped on the roof, ''Our Union Jack produced sporadic applause from people on the street, who clearly supposed we were the forerunners of a vast Anglo-American force.'' 
 Even worse, the Hungarian exiles at the C.I.A.-supported Radio Free Europe behaved in an utterly irresponsible fashion, exhorting the rebels to overthrow Nagy's government. Gati quotes the inflammatory broadcast transcripts to good effect. Yet Washington had no clear idea what was actually happening in Hungary. As usual, the C.I.A. got it wrong, declaring in a 1955 National Intelligence Estimate that ''most of the resistance in Hungary is of a passive character. ... There are few underground leaders.''
 It's a pity that none of the authors note that the events in Hungary refuted the theory, advanced by Hannah Arendt in ''The Origins of Totalitarianism,'' and widely believed in the West almost until the end of the cold war, that Communism had reduced entire populations to a permanent state of cringing subservience. Hungary showed that this was wrong. As Korda acutely observes, the Hungarians didn't simply stage a revolution against the Kremlin. They started a war. For a few brief, glorious days, it even looked as though they might win it. Decades later, they did. It was the Hungarians who, in opening the border to Austria, gave the East Germans an escape route, leading to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Soviet empire. These excellent books tell how it all began a half century ago.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Revolution in Hungary: The 1956 Budapest Uprising. By Erich Lessing. Text by George Konrad, Francois Fejto, Erich Lessing and Nicolas Bauquet. (Thames & Hudson, $50.) This book collects more than 200 images of the uprising and its aftermath made by Lessing, an Austrian-born photographer, as well as political essays and Lessing's reminiscences. Above, an artillery wreck in Dohany Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); HISTORY (77%); MURDER (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: Jacob Heilbrunn; Victor Sebestyen; Charles Gati; Michael Korda; Erich Lessing

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HUNGARY (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



672 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Stark, Plain, Without Shame

BYLINE: By JAMES CAMPBELL. 
James Campbell's books include ''Talking at the Gates: A Life of James Baldwin.'' He is an editor at The Times Literary Supplement in London.

 BODY:
THE JOURNALS
 Volume Two: 1966-1990.
 By John Fowles.
 Edited by Charles Drazin.
 Illustrated. 464 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
There is a lot to dislike in the second volume of John Fowles's journals. Try this, written in October 1988, after a private dinner with Tom Maschler, Fowles's editor at Jonathan Cape, and Roger Straus, the publisher of Farrar, Straus & Giroux: ''Silly talk between the men, how it is impossible to find a 'decent' apartment in Manhattan under a million dollars, in London under three-quarters of a million pounds. I wish I were a Grosz, and could etch such profiteering millionaire-pigs. ... Jews like Tom and Straus make it so desperately difficult, after evenings like this, not to be anti-Semitic.'' 
 Far from wincing the next morning, Fowles composed a sonnet, which portrays Maschler and Straus as ''millionaire crows'' and ''jackal masters,'' and continues: ''Literature, schmiterature, don't give us that. / We are back to the real, my friends: / Hawked carpets on the beach at Haifa.'' At the conclusion, he adds: ''My malicious and anti-Semite contribution to the other evening. They asked for it.'' 
 Fowles died in November 2005, after this book had been presented to its English publishers. Suggestions that he modify or remove other disobliging remarks about friends and living figures were apparently dismissed. Fowles wanted the ''Journals'' to reflect the day-to-day thoughts and impressions of a working writer and middle-class Englishman in the second half of the 20th century, stark, plain, without shame.
 In that respect, they are absorbing, from beginning to end. Fowles, who detested the showbiz element of literary life and was often represented as leading a reclusive life in Lyme Regis, Dorset, on the southwest coast of England, had evidently intended all along to make a public presentation of his own devising. At the time of this volume's first entry, Dec. 5, 1965, he is completing the screen treatment of his novel ''The Magus'' and preparing to write ''The French Lieutenant's Woman,'' which would remain on the New York Times best-seller list for more than a year, earning Fowles more money than he knew what to do with or could arouse enthusiasm for. It went on for years: in February 1975, he notes that ''American paperback sales of 'The Collector' now total 1,080,000; of 'The Magus,' 970,000''; two days later that his short-story collection ''The Ebony Tower'' ''is sixth on the N.Y. Times list.'' A call concerning a movie of the title story brings with it the offer of ''$50,000 ... but that side is meaningless to me.'' Meanwhile, a film of ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' is in the works -- the many phases of production and postponement are described in fascinating detail -- but Fowles does not ''care a damn either way.'' It is with films as it is with books: ''far more fun in the setting up than in actually making the thing public.''
 For roughly a decade, until the publication of ''Daniel Martin'' in 1977, Fowles was the thinking person's popular novelist, or the light reader's serious one. Later books, with unappetizing titles like ''A Maggot'' and ''Wormholes,'' failed to interest critics and readers alike. By a process always mystifying to those of modest means, which goes unexplained in the otherwise informative footnotes by Charles Drazin, Fowles, who had bought his house outright for a fraction of one of his advances and flew economy wherever he went, found himself within a decade ''nearly broke, in a mess.'' 
 The deepest impression left by ''The Journals'' is of how enervating it must have been to be John Fowles. In the stable in his garden, he has a sensation of being haunted by his own ghost: ''Being dead while I am still alive.'' Admirers who write letters are ''like leeches.'' Society is suffering from a ''sickness,'' of which the popularity of Harold Robbins (''a reptile'') is a symptom. When Fowles and his wife, Elizabeth, fly to New York in November 1969 for the publication of ''The French Lieutenant's Woman,'' at the peak of his success, they sit around ''in the hotel for hours, unable to face going out. To face New York. It's partly the wretched central heating, the abominable lassitude it induces.'' Only Fowles could number central heating among the perils of fame and fortune.
 For all the misery and spite on display, there is much pleasure to be had from pursuing the various narrative strands, material and spiritual, of a life laid bare. In Volume 1 of these journals (2003), we learned how Fowles and Elizabeth began an affair in the early 1950's on the Greek island of Spetsai, which, as ''Phraxos,'' provides the setting for ''The Magus.'' Elizabeth abandoned not only her husband to join Fowles, but her infant daughter, Anna. As Volume 2 progresses, Anna grows up, marries, has children (they get on Fowles's nerves, of course), is divorced, meets another man. Despised as a child, she is now the cement that keeps the Fowles's marriage together. Near the close of this installment, which ends 15 years before his death, Fowles refers to the ''guilt'' of the abandonment, which happened more than 35 years earlier, as a cause of perennial domestic bickering.
 He and Elizabeth have no children of their own, and he claims not to want any, but the most tender moments in ''The Journals'' describe the children of others. In February 1970, they are visited by a ''prosaic'' acquaintance of Anna's, a woman living on welfare, and her daughter Emma, 8, who entrances Fowles and prompts comparisons with Alice Liddell, the original of Lewis Carroll's Alice. ''I couldn't face going to the station with them when they had to catch a train on Sunday night. I knew she would cry all the way; and only my age would prevent my crying with her.''
 His main inspiration, practically his raison d'etre, is his love of nature and knowledge of ''animals, plants, birds, insects,'' which suffused the first volume and continues here. The sections on filmmaking contain sharp, often affectionate portraits of Harold Pinter (he wrote the screenplay for ''The French Lieutenant's Woman''), Michael Caine, Fred Zinnemann and others. The determination to record the indignities accompanying the disintegration of his body (which begin in earnest with a stroke in 1988) is admirable. There is intelligent observation in abundance, but disgust and dislike of humankind eventually conspire to exclude Fowles from the front rank of literary diarists.
 I can add one small footnote. Late in 1973, while an editor of Glasgow University Magazine, I wrote to Fowles requesting an interview. Within a week, he sent a neat reply, dated Nov. 9, which I have before me: ''Dear Mr. Campbell, Fine, but I live a hell of a way from Glasgow.'' I made the long journey down to Lyme Regis, where I experienced the gruffness at first hand. Naturally, I consulted the index for some reference to this event, and unsurprisingly found none. However, the entry for Oct. 31, 1973, reveals that Fowles has declined an offer to give the Clark Lectures at Cambridge University, and has received ''a profile request from The Sunday Times. Also refused.'' The request from a faraway student magazine must have arrived a day or two later, and to this he acquiesced, giving up part of his weekend to answer questions posed by a raw youth. It's hard to dislike that.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Fowles in New York, 1974. (Photograph by Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); BESTSELLERS (72%); BOOK SALES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); BEACHES (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: James Campbell; John Fowles

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



673 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The Best of This Show May Be Gridlock

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
WHAT will Washington's economic strategy look like in the next two years? With several possible election outcomes in Congress, it's anyone's guess. There is some common ground between Democrats and Republicans, but politics could easily get in the way of policies.
 The election next week offers these possibilities: the two parties will split control of the houses of Congress, or the Democrats will run both, or the Republicans will maintain control of both. In the first two cases, the prospect of governmental gridlock appears: a stalemate between the parties, or between the Democrats and the president. And for some analysts, that is actually the best state of affairs. 
''Divided government is preferable in pretty much every scenario,'' said Stephen A. Slivinski, director of budget studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group in Washington. ''The main value of divided government is the fact that not much will get done -- it's the fact that things won't get any worse.''
 Moreover, Mr. Slivinski said he didn't believe warnings that the economy would keep growing only if the nation stuck with the same political leadership. ''There's at least enough evidence to make me skeptical of the Republican claim that the economy will sputter to a halt or become adversely affected by a Republican loss of control,'' he said. ''If anything, it's probably more likely that the gridlock will be helpful. It's likely to keep at bay a lot of bad policies that would be enacted in a united scenario.''
 There's some empirical truth behind at least the dynamics of this theory, said Sarah A. Binder, a professor of political science at George Washington University. ''Divided government tends to pale in comparison to what can be achieved when there's a single party in control of the White House and Congress,'' she said.
 But control of Congress isn't everything, she added. When politicians are broadly polarized within parties, moving forward with big legislation can be difficult. Issues like immigration reform and the future of the estate tax haven't been resolved, she said, because of differences between moderates and hard-liners in the Republican camp.
 When there are many centrist politicians on both sides, even divided government can succeed. Professor Binder pointed to the tax reforms of the 1980s and the balanced-budget agreement of 1997 as prime examples.
 Common ground is harder to find these days, though, so even the policy items that may look attractive to both parties could have a hard time becoming law. ''One of the things that the House Democrats have pledged to institute immediately is pay-as-you-go budgeting,'' said Jennifer Crider, the press secretary for the House Democratic leadership. ''If you want to spend money, you have to pay for it.''
 In principle, that's the kind of fiscally conservative measure that might appeal to Republicans. Still, with a wide-open presidential election coming up in a couple of years, neither party may want to support initiatives that it didn't propose.
 ''There's no simple logic on presidential election years,'' Professor Binder said. ''It certainly seems that both parties would have an incentive to hold off on agreeing to anything that the other party's going to take credit for.''
 Ms. Crider says that if the Democrats win at least one house of Congress, they will push forward with their ''Six for '06'' agenda, started in July. It embraces some policies that the current Republican leadership may not like, such as raising the minimum wage, cutting interest rates on student loans and eliminating tax breaks for huge oil companies. But the agenda also encompasses a few ideas that could just as easily have been in the Republican playbook: pension reform, making permanent the corporate tax credits for research and development and creating new incentives for personal saving.
 Raising the personal saving rate has been a major goal of the Bush administration since its early days and is the crux of the ''Ownership Society'' initiative. Yet even this apparently friendly policy may not make it to the president's desk. ''If you think about some of the people who were most opposed to some of the Ownership Society elements of the Bush agenda, they were fellow Republicans,'' Mr. Slivinski said.
 IF Republicans keep their majority, they are likely to stick with the agenda they've had for the past six years, said a Republican staffer from a Congressional committee, who would speak only anonymously because of political sensitivities during the election campaign.
 ''The goals that they've put forward I don't think are going to change drastically, except in terms of the execution,'' he said. Making the previous waves of tax cuts permanent is still a priority, he added, as is changing liability rules for doctors and hospitals. Other ideas, like changing the tax treatment of payouts from mutual funds and forcing the Federal Reserve to aim for a specific inflation rate, are also being floated.
 Until the election, however, Congress will be stuck in another sort of gridlock -- the kind that happens when politicians aren't in Washington.
 ''People are focused on the election,'' the Republican aide said. Republicans campaigning for re-election, he said, are ''in a position of advocating the policies that were adopted in this Congress.'' 
 ''In the next Congress, there'll be more focus on what do we need to do to complete the agenda that we already have, and then what new items will we promote.''
 That is, if the voters give them the chance.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); ESTATE TAX (67%); TAX REFORM (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: DAVE CAMP (58%) Daniel Altman; Stephen A Slivinski; Sarah A (Prof) Binder

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



674 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Fed's View Is Getting A Checkup

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
FEDERAL RESERVE policy makers say that they expect ''inflation pressures to moderate over time'' and that the economy ''seems likely to expand at a moderate pace.'' 
 There will be three chances this week to get an update on the status of the economy, when the government issues reports on productivity and two measures of inflation.
''The week is chock-full of indicators to give us a quick read on whether the economy is behaving as they would like,'' Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Oak Associates, said after Fed decision-makers left interest rates unchanged for a third consecutive meeting. The Fed's assessment of economic and inflation prospects came at the end of Wednesday's meeting. 
 One inflation measure, the core personal consumption expenditures deflator for September, should show continued monthly growth of 0.2 percent, Mr. Yardeni said. Some economists believe that this measure, to be reported on Monday, captures spending patterns more accurately than the Consumer Price Index. Mr. Yardeni foresees that the employment cost index for the third quarter, due the next day, will indicate growth at a 3 percent annual rate.
 If the reports come in as he anticipates, ''the markets will certainly be happy,'' he said. If there are any surprises, he added, they may well be in the form of lower inflation than Wall Street has expected. 
 On Thursday, a report is due on productivity in the third quarter. Strong productivity is an economic get-out-of-jail-free card, or at least a card granting time off for good behavior. When companies and employees operate more efficiently, inflation's corrosive effect on economic growth is mitigated.
 A Bloomberg News poll of economists estimates that productivity in the quarter increased at an annual rate of 1.5 percent after rising at a 1.6 percent rate in the second quarter. 
 Mr. Yardeni warned that while the inflation data might come in a bit better than the markets have anticipated, the productivity figure ''could be on the disappointing side.''
 That description sums up his feelings about the last Fed meeting. He is not bothered by what the central bankers did, but that they met at all. 
 ''It was uninspiring and unsurprising,'' he said in his succinct critique of the meeting. ''Everyone expected they would do nothing, and that's what they did. They should think about canceling some of these meetings.''

DATA WATCH -- The report likely to command the most attention on Wall Street this week covers October employment. The Bloomberg poll forecasts net creation of 125,000 jobs. The September number was 51,000, but upward revisions have been routine lately, and Mr. Yardeni does not anticipate pinpoint accuracy this time around. ''Employment is probably one of the most misleading economic statistics,'' he said. ''Whatever number we get is likely to be just as wrong as the other numbers.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Manufacturing Business Activity (Diffusion index) from 2005 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%) United States Economy; Productivity; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



675 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Can Bollywood Please All the People, All the Time?

BYLINE: By ANUPAMA CHOPRA

DATELINE: MUMBAI 

 BODY:
TALKING recently about expectations for his latest work, Farhan Akhtar, a 32-year-old Bollywood director, wore the stricken expression of a tightrope walker contemplating a particularly perilous move. Mr. Akhtar's third film, ''Don,'' released on Oct. 20, is a ''Mission: Impossible''-style action adventure, featuring the superstar Shah Rukh Khan as an international master criminal draped in blondes and high-tech toys. It combines stylized action, gadgets and a breathlessly paced plot that traverses Malaysia, India and France.
 Shortly before the release of the film, which had a strong opening in the various Indian markets and abroad, Mr. Akhtar said he was aiming for Bollywood's Holy Grail: a hit that could entertain both the educated nonresident Indian in Boston or London and the semiliterate viewer in Bihar or Uttar Pradesh.
In an interview in Mumbai, Mr. Akhtar said: ''I don't want to lose anyone in the twists and turns. For me, all markets are equally important. I want to make sure that everyone enjoys the film.'' 
 The enormity of the task explains his nervous expression. The universal Bollywood hit is becoming increasingly difficult to pull off. A decade ago, the Hindi film market was largely considered a homogenous monolith. What worked in one town was likely to work in another. But over the years the business has splintered dramatically, forcing industry pundits to create new labels for films. 
 In a conversation about the box office you are likely to hear the following:
 ''Supergentry'': a film that connects best with the prosperous, sophisticated viewers mostly found in metropolitan areas like Mumbai and overseas in the United States and Britain. 
 ''Front-bencher'': a picture that attracts working-class viewers who sit on the front benches -- that is, the cheap seats. 
 ''Multiplex movie'': usually a medium-budget, nonformulaic film that works best at the 250-odd multiplexes that have opened in Indian metropolitan areas since 1997.
 ''Single theater movie'': a more pedestrian film with broader appeal, likely to work best at the old-style single theaters, where ticket prices are much cheaper. 
 ''Overseas hit'': Usually a film that seduces non-resident Indians with stars, set-piece songs and family values. 
 ''Interior hit'': Precisely the opposite -- a film that works in small towns and villages, usually with dollops of rowdy action.
 India, home to more than one billion people, 23 officially recognized languages and multitudes of religions, has always been a country of contradictions. But since economic liberalization in 1991, when India opened its markets, the distance between the country's many communities has increased, leading to fragmentation in the film world. One India is poised for economic superstardom; the other struggles with an estimated 300 million people surviving on less than a dollar a day. 
 Jaideep Sahni, a leading screenwriter, said in an interview in Mumbai: ''I'm constantly aware that I'm managing disparities. The psychographics of the country have polarized too sharply. There is no pan-Indian movie because there is no pan-India.'' 
 Case in point: ''Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna'' (''Never Say Goodbye''), a lush-looking, much-hyped August release about marriage and adultery set in New York, grossed $13 million in six weeks overseas, the highest total ever for a Hindi movie. But ''Alvida'' did not do well in Bihar, where there are no multiplexes and the audience, mostly rural and working class, pays less than 50 cents a ticket. 
 The returns from the urban markets (where multiplex tickets cost up to $5 each) and the overseas markets (where viewers pay in dollars and pounds) are so much higher that Bollywood has sharply skewed toward them. Nonmetropolitan India has been relegated to the periphery, both as a market and as fodder for film plots. Anil Thadani, a leading distributor, said in an interview in Mumbai, ''The storytelling has shifted because the economics have shifted.'' 
 Screen space is largely occupied by urban stories with a decidedly Western veneer. A-list movies are now regularly situated in foreign locations. ''Jaan-e-Mann'' (''Heartthrob''), another big-budget, multistar film released on Oct. 20 -- this one about a love triangle -- was extensively shot in New York. At one point, the lead actor, Salman Khan, who plays a Bollywood star, does an Elvis Presley impersonation. 
 The director Shirish Kunder said in an e-mail interview that the film was ''Indian in soul but Western in treatment and styling.'' Mr. Kunder said he ''tried to strike a balance between rural and metro/overseas audiences,'' but he had to make a choice, and ''opted to cater'' to the latter. In some scenes, the characters speak entirely in English. 
 Many other filmmakers are making the same choice. Through much of the last decade, Bollywood has dished out what the director Rohan Sippy calls ''prefab movies'': consumerist fantasies set in glossy urban locations, in which rich, beautiful characters grapple with matters of the heart. Even the more gritty and grounded films flashed an urbane attitude and sensibility.
 Small-town and rural India, meanwhile, was sidelined, providing an opportunity for smaller regional cinemas. In the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Bhojpuri-language films, earlier derided as the poor country cousins of Hindi cinema, sometimes do better business than A-list Bollywood films. The large migrant populations in metropolitan areas also flock to this basic, homegrown fare. 
 ''There was always a divide between the city and countryside,'' said Gyan Prakash, a historian at Princeton University who specializes in modern India, by e-mail. ''But the divide between the audience for 'Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna' and that for Bhojpuri films represents something new. It suggests that the globalizing, metropolitan middle class has abandoned the countryside altogether. This is different from the cinemas of the 1950's, 1960's and 1970's, when the category 'nation' still had some purchase and Hindi films sought to address a 'national' audience even though the nation made up various divisions.''
 The demographics of the industry have also helped further the segmentation. A generation of younger filmmakers is now wielding power. Many of them are from film families, and almost all are city born and bred. Mr. Sippy, 36, who graduated from Stanford University, where he majored in philosophy, is the son and grandson, respectively, of the filmmakers Ramesh Sippy and G. P. Sippy. He said the new filmmakers were simply telling stories that they knew and were comfortable with. ''The nonurban space has to be reinvented,'' he said. ''It's just waiting for the right kind of director.''
 Meanwhile the director of ''Don,'' Mr. Akhtar, the son of two famous screenwriters, Javed Akhtar and Honey Irani, says he hopes the power of the narrative will finally trump all divisions. ''At the core of it, the audience is the same,'' he said. ''India has a great storytelling tradition. Genetically we are programmed to identify with stories. If the story is worthwhile, the film will work everywhere.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In ''Jaan-e-Mann'' (''Heartthrob''), much of which was shot in New York, Salman Khan does a little Elvis jig.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITIES (70%); TICKET SALES (69%); RELIGION (69%); MOVIE THEATERS (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (68%); BUDGETS (66%); FAMILY (60%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: Anupama Chopra

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (57%); BIHAR, INDIA (57%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



676 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; CHECK IN /CHECK OUT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: DOMINICA: JUNGLE BAY

BYLINE: By MARY BILLARD

 BODY:

THE BASICS
 Dominica is the Caribbean in its purest form. ''I cannot believe that in terms of grandeur and majesty there can be found anything in the world to rival Dominica's succession of forest-covered mountains,'' Alec Waugh wrote in 1948. ''It is green, all green.'' Perhaps no hotel on the island captures that sense of the wilderness better than Jungle Bay, an ecolodge on a 55-acre site filled with lush white cedar, almond and gomier trees, overlooking gleaming Pointe Mulatre Bay.
 Opened in March 2005 by Sam Raphael, a real-estate developer from the United States Virgin Islands, the resort has been an economic lifeline to local residents; many of its 55 employees are former farmers hit by a decline in the banana trade. ''I was here from the first machete stroke,'' said Francis Emmanuel, known as Brother, who does everything from climbing the trees for breakfast coconut water to guiding hikes.

THE LOCATION
 
 Remote. Set on the southwest coast on the island, Jungle Bay is an hour and a half from the airport in Melville Hall. The roads are narrow, winding and dangerous. (Best to take advantage of an airport pickup by hotel staff.) The island's big attractions are readily accessible to guests, especially those who want to spend their time hiking, diving, ocean kayaking and mountain biking rather than sunbathing. Victoria Falls, 130 feet tall, is within walking distance. Zom Zom Lookout Point and Perdu Temps Heritage Trail are nearby hikes. 

THE ROOMS
 Rustic luxe. The 35 individual, spacious cottages are on stilts, filled with sunlight (some seeping through the floorboards), and the sounds of the hummingbirds. All have balconies and views of either the water or the rain forest and are made out of local tropical hardwoods and volcanic stone. There is no air-conditioning or television. Some guests need to be in good shape: a series of footpaths connects the cottages, the highest perched like a bird's nest up 189 steps. And the vertical is steep. 

THE BATHROOMS
 An outdoor shower under an awning of trees with infinite shades of greens; bathing guests may spot a Lesser Antillean bullfinch flitting overhead. On a visit earlier this year, the solar-heated water defied expectations; the shower was hot with shockingly good water pressure. Sublime. 

AMENITIES
 A computer with Internet hookup is in the main lobby, but calls to the United States had to dialed by the front desk operator. The Spa du Soleil's cliffside treatment rooms are partially open, overlooking the Atlantic Coast. Daily yoga classes in a sun-filled room are hearty sessions. 

ROOM SERVICE
 Although room service is available, it would be a heartless soul who made someone climb the steps with a tray. The rooms have small refrigerators, ice and Melitta coffee and tea brands, including the delicious Love at First Sip and All That Razzberry.

THE RESTAURANT
 The Jungle Pavilion is an open-air octagonal structure overlooking the beautiful stone pool and the ocean. Fresh ingredients, fresh fish and 95 percent organic. One standout is the herbed grilled chicken with papaya, pineapple and tomato salsa. Jungle Bay's staff is unfailingly gracious, but many who work at the resort have no previous hotel or restaurant experience. At times the service was a bit tentative. 

THE CROWD
 Honeymooners, granola eaters, Johnny Depp fans (parts of the second ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' was filmed on the island) and a few very fit hikers from the United States wearing triathlon T-shirts. 

BOTTOM LINE
 Rooms are $199 in the off-season to $249 in season, meals included. Jungle Bay, (767) 446-1789. Pointe Mulatre, Dominica; junglebaydominica.com. MARY BILLARD

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the 35 cottages at Jungle Bay. All have balconies and views of the water or the rain forest. (Photo by Todd Anderson/Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); HIKING (89%); CLIMBING (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (72%); RAIN FORESTS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TEA (70%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%); BOATING & RAFTING (50%); YOGA (50%); CYCLING (50%) Hotels and Motels; Reviews

COMPANY: MELITTA BERATUNGS-UND VERWALTUNGS GMBH & CO KG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: jungle bay (dominica hotel)

INDUSTRY: SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (50%)

PERSON: Mary Billard

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) DOMINICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%) Dominica

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



677 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 5166 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Fight to The Taliban

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Rubin. 
Elizabeth Rubin, a contributing writer for the magazine, has reported extensively about Afghanistan. This is the second of two articles.

 BODY:
One morning this summer, I headed out with a U.S. Army convoy of Humvees, a truck called a wrecker and a packed supply truck into the Afghan mountains. I was among some two dozen American and Afghan soldiers from Task Force Warrior, an infantry battalion based in Zabul Province, just north of Kandahar. We trundled up a path fit for goats because the nearby riverbed was perfect for concealing improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.'s. Soon enough, the truck keeled over into the riverbed anyway. To hoist it up, the wrecker had to crash through wheat fields, and within minutes a gray-bearded farmer appeared brandishing his stick. ''Are you Afghan?'' he shouted at Farooq, my interpreter. ''I have 30 members in my family. Why did you destroy my wheat?'' The old farmer then clasped my wrist with his ancient garden tool of a hand. ''You Americans are all friends of Bush the persecutor. You see this area'' -- he swept his other arm in every direction -- ''these are all Taliban. But they don't have power. As soon as we find power, I will kill all of you.'' 
Farooq tried to calm him, but the farmer was fixated on his crushed wheat stalks until he spotted First Sgt. Ruel Robbins, a red-cheeked, chest-first sort. Robbins looked the farmer over, then said, ''Tell him I'm real sorry to drive over his wheat, but I had to 'cause my vehicle turned over.'' The farmer eyed the sacks in the supply truck; Robbins gave him one of rice and two of flour. 
 The farmer watched us take off in a swirl of dust, and Specialist Melissa Elliot, who was driving our Humvee, said to Farooq: ''We're not trying to hurt them. We're trying to protect their security. Why'd he get so upset with us? Is their wheat part of their religion or something?''
 ''It's the food for his family, ma'am,'' Farooq said patiently.
 And so began our mission into the mountains of Zabul Province, 6,500 square miles of desert, farmland and 9,000-foot peaks with almost no paved roads to link one patch to the next. It's a place where, just decades ago, families lived as nomads, until King Mohammad Zahir Shah gave them government land to settle on, and where national politics is superseded by Pashtunwali -- the Pashtun codes for tribal coexistence, based on retaliation, mediation and hospitality. In 1994, when the Taliban movement of young religious students swept into Zabul offering an end to illegal road taxes and warlord rule, Zabul's leaders simply joined hands with their Pashtun brothers. After the Taliban's fall, President Hamid Karzai's nephew was dispatched to head the Zabul Police; in July 2002, I found him besieged by locals, who put feces in his food and threatened to kill him. For five years now American forces have been chasing the Taliban in Zabul and attempting reconstruction. The police buildings have improved. A new hospital (financed by the United Arab Emirates) was finished. Roads were being laid in terrain so remote that when the Americans turned up, the villagers thought they must be Russians. The Americans opened a trade school in Qalat, the capital. But the pace of progress has been painfully slow. These remain the Taliban's mountains.
 There are 42,000 U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan today, trying to secure a country that is a third again the size of Iraq, where there are almost 150,000 U.S.-led troops. In the past two years, more than 300 American and NATO soldiers have died trying to stave off a resurgent Taliban. Already this year, some 1,500 Afghans have been killed. And while there were just two suicide bombings in 2002, there is now one about every five days. 
 With the Taliban's alarming offensive, which began last spring, American generals began speaking of a different war -- not a war against terror but a war of ideas. In military jargon this meant balancing kinetic and nonkinetic activity. Or, in plain speech, fighting the Taliban versus nation-building, two goals often at odds. ''This is the war for the people,'' Lt. Col. Frank Sturek, the battalion commander of Task Force Warrior, told me. Sturek served in Iraq under Lt. Gen. David Petraeus -- one of the military's leading thinkers on counterinsurgency -- in Mosul, a city with 50,000 university students. In Zabul, by contrast, the literacy rate is 15 percent, at best. Sometimes Sturek couldn't tell if people wanted to be catapulted to the 21st century or just left alone. On that he deferred to Delbar Jan Arman, the governor of Zabul Province and a former anti-Soviet mujahedeen, who mentored him on local ways -- distinguishing a Taliban killing from a tribal feud or a quarrel over a boy lover. Arman explained cultural sensitivities: how pulling off a man's turban or opening the clothing box of a woman could set off a revolt. Sturek would nod. ''The standard military play is, Land in, round up the men, find someone who is nasty and mean and arrest him, drop off supplies and split,'' Sturek told me. ''We're trying to humanize ourselves. It's uncomfortable. You train an infantry battalion to kill the enemy, and it's hard to tone it down.'' The governor's response was always: ''The people are simple. We can win this war if the Army stays nice with the people and if we embrace them.''
 After many sweaty hours, we rumbled into the Alamo Bar and Grill in Kharnay, elevation 8,000 feet. It was a fitting name for an outpost fashioned from a mud schoolhouse -- dusty, waterless and powerless except for what the soldiers slurped off a Humvee battery. Charlie Company, Fourth Brigade, 10th Mountain Division, had been based here for nine weeks already when we arrived. They had been living on meals ready to eat, or M.R.E.'s, patrolling the mountains with packs weighing 60 pounds or more, befriending locals and being mortared and ambushed once or twice a week. Their skin was burned, their uniforms ripped. But for this evening, all suffering was suspended for barbecue night. The Humvees had brought frozen slabs of beef from the United States.
 In downtime, the soldiers of Charlie Company would cram into a mud room to imbibe American culture -- ''Shark Tale,'' ''The Bourne Supremacy,'' Lil Wayne, Toby Keith singing his ''Taliban Song'' -- all courtesy of Pvt. Dennis Taylor and his DVD and CD collection. A teenager from Tampa's housing projects, Taylor grew up with the Bloods. The Army has set him straight, even if his buddies teased him because they couldn't decipher his lingo and he wasn't sure what continent he was on or what the Koran was. ''It's Islam's holy book,'' said one soldier. ''Man, how can you be fighting here and not know that,'' another teased. Taylor laughed and shrugged. 
 At the other end of the spectrum was Cpl. Kyle Hayes, who had made Taylor his project and, like Sgt. Jon Terry, a sentimental tough guy from Louisiana, often shared meals with the Afghan soldiers accompanying their unit to taste their culture and to bond. Hayes owned a Web design company in New York City and until two years ago was touring with his band, ''Half Left.'' The band had a revelation while producing a record near ground zero in Manhattan, and they all joined the Army. Hayes's family was stunned. ''I was the only guy at basic training who voted for Kerry,'' he told me. Sometimes he felt weird on leave in New York City, where people gawk at uniforms, though a few older people thanked him. His life plan, as inscribed in his diary, is to be a rock star, business mogul and founder of a Texan city by 35, governor of Texas by 45 and president by 55. 
 Anticipation hung over the Alamo. Charlie Company's next mission was a bit of deceptive theater intended to lure the Taliban into ambushing the soldiers so they could counterattack. Part of the strategy involved Lt. Nathan Shields -- a smiling, easygoing officer from Rochester -- posing as a gullible new commander. Meanwhile, units hiding in the mountains would block the Taliban's escape. That night, a few squads hiked up a thousand feet, each soldier hauling water (temperatures in the day are usually in the 100's), food, rifle, knife, flashlight and first-aid kit, all atop 35 pounds of armor and ammunition. The Afghan soldiers carried little besides a rifle and ammunition. The American infantryman's burden is the Taliban's biggest advantage. Fleet-footed, carrying little more than an AK and a walkie-talkie, Taliban fighters could sail over the mountains.
 The next morning we headed toward Solan, a village so unfriendly that when American soldiers airlifted in a bridge months earlier, it was burned down the next day. ''We don't know if the Taliban burnt it or the villagers,'' Lt. David Patton, a tall, circumspect Texan with Task Force Warrior, said of the bridge in Solan. ''Everyone believes in the mission,'' he added, ''but there's an underlying thought that when we leave, it'll go back to the way it was.'' As Zabul's governor, Arman, had told me, Zabul's religious leaders all supported the Taliban, and in Afghanistan the most powerful platform is the minbar, a pulpit where the mullah delivers his Friday sermon. So although villagers were friendly when the Americans patrolled, they refused to help rebuild a school and a bazaar, for example, fearing retaliation from the Taliban who had destroyed them. 
 Shortly after we left the first village on our route to Solan, the Afghan soldiers began picking up Taliban radio chatter about the new Americans. Robbins was pleased. We were the bait, and the plan was working. We spread out along the gorge for a long, edgy march. Outside Solan, we met Sayed Ali Sheikh, an elder of the area, in whose compound the Americans had stayed before. He said he couldn't guarantee that the place wasn't rigged with explosives, but nevertheless he handed Robbins the key, showed us shrapnel the size of a skateboard that had ricocheted off a mountain when American planes dropped a 500-pound bomb -- and vanished. In no time, the soldiers transformed Ali Sheikh's compound into a base of operations: satellite hookup to call the Air Force for cover, mortar base near the well, sniper positions. 
 Ten lean men in turbans came to meet Shields, who played his role as new commander somewhat awkwardly. A strange dialogue ensued, led by one of the 10 men, Haji Gailani, whose oversize glasses, gabardine vest and cane denoted authority. He said that they didn't deny Taliban fighters were nearby. ''If you can catch those people, thank you,'' he said. ''If you want to slaughter my neck, please do.'' There was a little nervous laughter. No, no, Shields said, of course not. Then Gailani said: ''You have planes. You can hear the Taliban on your radios. And still you cannot force them out of here. How can we?''
 Others began to speak up. Planes had attacked the mountains the night before, the men said. They had heard about the bombing of civilians in Kandahar. They wanted to know if they were about to be bombed. Robbins advised them to stay near the thickest walls and shut off the lights. Then they left. 
 And the waiting began. Pvt. Andrew Richards pulled out photos of his family, who lived in Colombia. Specialist Jonathon Routledge, whose voice still cracked and who couldn't believe he was roped into the Army by some cool recruitment videos, poked at a chick that was pecking at spilled tea. Shields and the medic climbed onto the compound roof to give coordinates in case of a medevac. Pvt. Jason Belford was so itchy that he played can-you-down-a-pack-of-crackers-in-two-minutes.
 The radio began sputtering with Taliban voices. An Afghan policeman, who went by the code name No. 5, had found their frequency. He heard them discussing our compound. They knew everything: how many Americans and Afghans, the location of the mortar, the sniper positions, the satellite and the flower (code for me, the woman in the group). Presumably one of our earlier visitors was an informant. No. 5 seemed a little dodgy, too -- perhaps working only for the troops, perhaps the Taliban, perhaps both.
 Shields, Sgt. Jeff Griffin, Belford and a few others moved out to check the area around the compound for mines. Just as we neared the rock garden, a detonation jolted us. A deafening sound. A black smoke squall. Amazingly, no one was hurt. But something was wrong. They had been out to that rock garden twice and found nothing. Suspicion fell on No. 5.
 ''Fire a mortar,'' shouted one of the soldiers. Dan Guenther, a sniper from Texas, spotted something. Everyone assumed an imminent showdown. Someone threw a grenade into an outcropping to see if it was booby-trapped.
 ''If you're gonna come to the party, come already!'' shouted Guenther. Then he suggested they should all run out in front of the house, smack their butts and provoke a fight. It was 6:42 p.m., and the light was fading. Shields and a few others popped out of the compound's shelter, hoping to draw fire. As darkness fell, I climbed up to talk to Specialist Tommy Glasgow, who was perched on the roof. He said that there was no way the Taliban would pick a fight after seeing all the U.S. fire power and listening to the bombers occasionally buzzing overhead. We talked about the mission in Zabul, and Glasgow said: ''As bad as I don't want to be here, we should be. The Romanians are coming to take over from us, and the Taliban are just gonna cream 'em.''
 The fight never did come, and when we got back to the Alamo, the Americans were packing, and the Afghan police and soldiers appeared bewildered, convinced they would be dead in 24 hours. One policeman had already defected to the Taliban, I was told. ''We'll be bombing this compound in a few weeks 'cause it'll be filled with Taliban,'' Hayes told me. He tried to find an hour every day to write in his diary. On May 12, for example, he had written: ''I killed some people last night. Second squad is out looking for corpses right now. We got mortared right around dark ... when I was getting all the last stuff done for the day, and I got a hypoglycemic attack when I was doing sit-ups. It was still a good day, though. I got a lot done. Everyday I grow stronger.'' 
 A few days later, the Alamo was indeed abandoned by the Afghan forces.
 The final draft of the U.S. military's latest counterinsurgency manual, written under the direction of Lt. Gen. David Petraeus and Lt. Gen. James Mattis, emphasizes that if you skimp on resources, endurance and meeting the population's security requirements, you lose. Yet for the past five years, the Pashtun provinces have been plagued by a lack of troops and resources. James Dobbins, President George W. Bush's former special envoy to Afghanistan, blames the White House, which he said had a predisposition against nation-building and international peacekeeping. The Bush administration rejected Afghan and State Department appeals to deploy a peacekeeping force in the provinces, dismissed European offers of troops and had already begun shifting military resources to Iraq, Dobbins told me, while U.S. troops in Afghanistan were to be limited to counterterrorism. ''In manpower and money,'' he added, ''this was the least resourced American nation-building effort in our history.'' In Afghanistan, the White House spent 25 times less per capita than in Bosnia and deployed one-fiftieth the troops. Much of the money that was pledged didn't show up for years. ''The main lesson of Afghanistan is low input, low output,'' Dobbins said. ''If you commit low levels of military manpower and economic assistance, what you get are low levels of security and economic growth.''
 The draft counterinsurgency manual is thoughtful, full of details and warnings like these: losing moral legitimacy means losing the war; the more force is used, the less effective it is; provoking combat usually plays into the enemy's hands; and building a government through illegitimate actions like unlawful detention and torture is self-defeating, even against fighters who conceal themselves among noncombatants.
 Yet while I was in the south, I saw how readily vicious practices are condoned. An Afghan security official who insisted that I not use his name but who was an aide to a prominent southern governor, told of an instance when they couldn't find a boy suspected of plotting an attack. ''We sent out a command -- arrest all his brothers, uncles, cousins, relatives, all of them,'' he said. ''When we arrested the relatives, no one knew what that boy was doing. Still we beat them all until they would shout, 'Write that we killed 5 or 10 people, whatever you want, and I will say anything.' '' In Zabul's provincial capital, Qalat, the police proudly showed me three ''Taliban'' they had just captured. One of them had been beaten so badly he could hardly walk, and his feet were oozing puss. His eyes were mere wrinkles in swollen tissue. An American intelligence officer looked slightly embarrassed when he walked into the police station. 
 With a corrupt justice system, young Afghan men on the receiving end of injustice have often felt their honor could only be restored through acts of revenge. One night, a doctor introduced me to a young farmer who asked me not to use his name. He had been shot by U.S. forces in a gunfight a year earlier. Seven metal clamps were holding his leg in place. Though deeply religious, he never liked the Taliban regime. His family was relieved when Mullah Omar and the ''Afghan Arabs'' who first came to fight the Soviets in the 1980's fled Kandahar. He believed that Karzai and the international community would help build the country. ''But they didn't,'' he said in the dark little flat where we met. ''They just came to arrest the people.'' His father was a tribal leader with pomegranate orchards, and relatives often appealed to him to get their family members out of Afghan and American prisons. He would urge the Americans not to be fooled by false reports naming ''Taliban.'' The real Taliban had mostly fled to Pakistan. 
 About a year and a half ago, he told me, a mine exploded next to an American convoy. His father was sitting in a mosque when he was rounded up by coalition troops. Twenty days later, his father's body was dropped off at a hospital. ''I couldn't control myself,'' the young man said, nearly knocking over the gas lamp with his awkward, pogo-stick leg. ''I wanted to avenge. I knew where the Taliban operated, because they would come at night, and so I found the commander of a small group. He welcomed me warmly and told me: 'It is the time of jihad. You are a lion and a hero.' '' 
 Colonel Sturek, a powerfully built, blue-eyed Maryland man so cleanshaven that he appeared bald, and Governor Arman, a heavily bearded engineer, made an unlikely team. They shared a meal of sheep, rice and melon four times a week to talk strategy. Sturek loved Arman's vision of a network of roads by 2008, linking up Zabul's remote districts, where they would build schools and markets. Zabul straddled the most dangerous stretch of highway in Afghanistan. After 3 each afternoon, Taliban blocked the roads, looking for foreigners, money, spies, satellite phones. Sometimes they would just burn up buses or trucks. They even set loose a donkey on the path to an American base, rigged with rockets, mortars and a detonation card. 
 Across Afghanistan's southern provinces, American and Afghan troops were responding to the Taliban resurgence with Operation Mountain Thrust. In Zabul, the focus was on Taliban fighters in the Day Chopan mountains. Sturek's goal was to disable the Taliban leadership, allow the Americans to find weapons caches, bring in aid and persuade people that they had no intention of interfering with their religion. As the full moon moved into place last May, enabling a predawn landing, Afghan and American soldiers with Charlie Company, Special Forces and U.S. doctors air-assaulted into the Day Chopan mountains, taking scattered gunfire, and descended on the tiny village of Hazarbuz. Special Forces soldiers with goggled sniffer dogs rounded up the men, numbered their hands with markers and interrogated them. Some were arrested and flown back to base camp. I followed Jeff Griffin and his squad, who were dispatched to the villagers' homes with a message: Governor Arman is coming here to find out what you need, and a medical team has come to treat sick people and animals. This was typical of the American balancing act in Afghanistan. The Village Medical Outreach unit consists of reservist doctors who bring chests full of hygiene kits and medicine to villages that have just been raided by fighting forces. 
 We climbed up a hill through apricot and almond orchards to reach the scattered homes. We found a woman in a red velvet dress, who had beaded necklaces and a pair of scissors dangling from her neck. She said that the men were all sleeping. Then she said that they had left when we came. Griffin told her about the doctors, but she seemed frightened and said that she didn't want medical attention. We wandered from house to house until a radio call came in from an observation unit. They had seen a boy wearing black, possibly an informant, running toward one of the houses.
 More climbing, more rocks, until we reached a wind-swept mountain top where an old crippled man emerged to hug Griffin, who hugged him back, uncomfortably -- after all, he had come to search his house. He then ordered the boy in black to move to a clearing so the observation unit, on a nearby mountain, could see if he was the runner. The soldiers rummaged through the house, turning up small piles of paper and boxes that seemed suspect. It turned out that the boxes were full of snuff and the house was just a shop. As we were about to leave, the radio blared out to Griffin: Don't forget to tell them about the Village Medical Outreach. 
 As we rambled back down under the noonday sun, exhausted and thirsty, plucking apricots, almonds and mulberries off the trees, I remembered the Afghans I'd met complaining about Americans pillaging their harvest. It wasn't hard to see how a few apricots could transmute into theft or how speaking to a woman after you have rounded up all the men could transmute into ''Americans are abusing our women.'' One afternoon, I had a car accident in Zabul. Within minutes, some 100 men pulled over and began heaving the wreck out of the ditch. As I crouched in the dirt wrapped in a tentlike Kuchi shawl, not a single man glanced my way. Rather, they asked my wounded translator if his wife was O.K. Someone must have sensed a foreigner, however, because 10 minutes after we left for the hospital, the Taliban showed up. They pummeled the driver, demanding to know what happened to the foreigner. He lied and saved his life. But that moment, when not one person glanced my way, offered a window into how seriously they abide by rules that are utterly alien to a 19-year-old American soldier. Sturek constantly struggled with pushing ''cultural sensitivity'' down the chain of command. It was nearly impossible.
 On our long walk back down the mountain, two privates were trying to grapple with the contingencies of their lives, free will, U.S. history and America's intangible objectives. They were having an existential moment and craving a meal at Red Lobster. This valley in Zabul reminded one of them, Specialist Joshua Pete, of canyons where the U.S. Army once fought his Navajo ancestors. Pete thought he had had a calling, that his country needed him. But because of Afghanistan, he had lost both his scholarship to Dartmouth and his fiancee. He didn't believe in ''this'' anymore. Half the Afghans, he said, didn't even want ''our billions to build this country.'' He wanted to be home fighting drug gangs in downtown L.A. or helping impoverished people in Flagstaff. 
 Back in the village of Hazarbuz, I found Governor Arman in his white robes, blazer and turban, sipping tea with Colonel Sturek. After one week, the governor said, once we were all gone, the Taliban would punish the people for sitting with Americans and the governor. Sturek agreed, but added that if the Americans didn't come, the people would have no idea there was an alternative.
 Men and boys filtered down to meet the governor. They sat cross-legged, skeptical, nervous. Arman was an earthy man, and while kind (''Tell anyone who has run to the mountains to come talk, there'll be no trouble. I am your governor. Why am I here? To hear your problems.''), he also let them have it. 
 ''Look at your kids,'' he said, pointing to the boys. The men did, and he winced. ''Look at their hands and feet, the infections on their skin, their bad education. Everyone looks sick. Don't they have the right to be educated?
 ''Are the Punjabi kids in this situation?'' he then asked, referring to the children of the ruling ethnic group in Pakistan. ''Why do people call it jihad here in Afghanistan? Why don't they fight this jihad in Quetta and Pakistan? We need to defend our country from the Punjabis.'' 
 He told them that this war was a Pakistani drama. The Pakistanis were sending Taliban to burn Afghan schools while their own children were being educated. If America leaves, he warned, you will all be slaves of Pakistan. 
 Over the three days we stayed, Arman's speeches grew harsher, and the men who visited him and Sturek grew more numerous and more attentive. The governor and the colonel could pick out the Taliban informants -- like the young man with good sneakers whom everyone deferred to. Jin Kong radios, which work with solar power, batteries or a hand crank, were handed out by the U.S. military to the locals. The elders got bicycles; kids, school bags with pencils and other supplies.
 Why did these Americans come here, the governor bellowed? Because the Taliban had not been nice with the people of this country. The Taliban beat the women, cut the heads off people, went to the north and made tribal enmity for Afghan people. How many Hazara, he asked, were killed in Shajoy (a district of Zabul)? Taliban had slaughtered hundreds of Hazara, an ethnic group descended from the Mongols and primarily Shiite. Arman repeated the accounts of Taliban cutting the throat of a little girl in front of her mother, then killing the mother, of the Taliban putting a gun in the mouth of a boy, who began to suck it and then they shot him. ''Don't you have sons?'' he asked. Some of the men averted their eyes, fidgeting in the dust. 
 On one occasion, Arman asked the men who had come if any among them could read and write. He held up a paper with the word God written on it. None of them could read. ''If you can't read the name of God, you are blind,'' he said. Trying to raise their Pashtun pride, he pointed to one of the interpreters, a Hazara from the neighboring district of Jaghori. ''What is your district like?'' he asked the interpreter, who dutifully reported it had 72 schools, 32 of them high schools, and that all boys and girls were educated. They had electricity, radio stations, lawyers and engineers. ''Why are we Pashtuns always fighting?'' asked the governor. ''You will all be laborers to the Jaghori people because you are illiterate and uneducated.'' 
 Perhaps, but the men wanted to know when their relatives would be let out of U.S. prisons in Kandahar and Bagram. And then a rocket exploded, then another, then gunfire began to echo back and forth between the valley walls. I trekked up to where snipers were perched on a small slope in front of a boulder. On the radio, we could hear Shields, who had taken some men and gone to patrol a valley. He was amazingly calm. ''We're under fire,'' he said. ''We're in a riverbed on the side of a hill.'' In fact, they were pinned down in an irrigation ditch with bullets throwing up dust and rocks all around them. An A-10 Warthog screeched across the sky as a 500-pound bomb smacked the side of the mountain. 
 We could still hear Shields breathing as he walked up the mountain. And that oddly calm voice: ''We're definitely putting ourselves at a disadvantage. Pretty much anywhere I'm standing they could take us out.''
 A donkey began braying as the full moon drifted up above the mountains. Capt. Craig Johnson told Lieutenant Shields to watch out because shadows would cast long with that moon. 
 The Taliban, judging from the radio communications we were monitoring, seemed to be wounded and out of ammunition. One of them invited another to prayer. The other demurred, saying he was worried that he would be spotted. ''O.K., then pray there, and I'll pray here,'' the first man said. Later, when I met a Taliban commander in Pakistan, he told me that they knew the Americans listened to their radios, so that the five daily prayers were often used as code to signal anything from ''I've run out of food'' to ''Ambush them.'' 
 The next afternoon, we flew by helicopter to Andar, a nearby village. I sat in the fields with a former teacher named Anwarjan. The governor had appointed him district chief for all of Day Chopan, but Anwarjan could barely travel. The entire province, he said, was Taliban. Still, he was busy with Shields getting hundreds of kids to school in the central town. He had convinced the parents that Pakistan wants their children to stay wild and uneducated. ''I have 300 students now,'' he said. ''They're changed. They are polite, greet people, treat their mothers well. One man can change a generation.''
 But his efforts, he said, were being undermined by the constant incursions of Taliiban from Pakistan. ''The leader of Day Chopan, Mullah Kahar, lives in Quetta,'' in Pakistan, Anwarjan said. ''All the heads are there. So why don't you do anything?''
 U.S. intelligence knows the same thing. As Seth Jones, an analyst with Rand, told The New York Times earlier this year, Pakistani intelligence agents are advising the Taliban about coalition plans and tactical operations and provide housing, support and security for Taliban leaders. Sturek told me that the U.S. is well aware that the Taliban heads are in Quetta. On one side, he said, most U.S. policy makers argue that the Pakistanis are our friends. On the other side are those, including some in the military, who say, ''Let's just drive into Quetta.''
 I often received updates from Charlie Company soldiers after leaving Afghanistan. One of their platoon was killed heading up to an observation post in Day Chopan. After they pulled out of Day Chopan, one of the soldiers told me, they heard that things weren't going so well and that the Taliban were using the fact that the Romanians had taken over to claim the Russians were back. And another soldier wrote: ''Our platoon got sent to a National Guard unit to help them out. They've lost like six people in the last week, but none of them were from our platoon.We were in Kandahar for a little while to get resupplied, and you're notkidding about the Canadians going down.We kept having to go to the big ceremonies for their bodies to get loaded on the plane.It seemed like they were getting messed up pretty bad. I definitely don't get the whole 'success story' thing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 29 about the war in Afghanistan referred imprecisely to the educational opportunities of a U.S. soldier before he joined the front. Specialist Joshua Pete did not lose a scholarship to Dartmouth because of the war. He was ruminating about what might have been possible if in fact he had applied to the college. This correction was delayed by efforts to reach Specialist Pete in Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Plan: Looking for the enemy in Zabul Province, 6,500 square miles of desert and 9,000-foot mountain peaks with hardly a paved road.
 Waiting: Sgt. Jeff Griffin, left, and some of his comrades in Charlie Company await action in a village in Zabul Province. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); RELIGION (61%); DESERTS (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Surveys and Series

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%) Elizabeth Rubin

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) Afghanistan; Zabul Province (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



678 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Play; my tribe; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Birth. Soccer. Death. What Else Is There? 

BYLINE: By Hampton Sides. 
Hampton Sides's new book is ''Blood and Thunder: An Epic of the American West.''

 BODY:
Every Saturday morning in the fall, I wake up with a tingle in the pit of my stomach. I pull on my uniform: the Adidas striped shirt, the Adidas turf shoes, the Adidas cap, the Oakley wraparounds. I reach for the monogrammed stainless steel whistle the parents gave me as a gift a few years ago. I check the mesh bag of No. 4 balls to make sure they've got the proper pop of inflation. 
 And then I call for Griffin, my 9-year-old right wing, who has been immersed in his own rituals of preparation. For the past half-hour, he has been playing FIFA Street on PlayStation 2, while getting pleasantly jacked up on a Starbucks Vanilla Frappuccino. He pulls on his shin guards, tucks in his jersey, straps the rubber lace guards over his cleats. A glance at the clock, and the gravity of the moment descends on me: it's game time. God, I'm a geek. 
The games are held in the grassy infield of the Downs at Santa Fe, a defunct horse racing track owned by a nearby Indian pueblo. We file past a few minivans that have felt soccer balls dangling from the rearview mirror and windows soaped up with annoying messages like ''Heads we win, tails we kick'' or ''Our goal is to deny yours.'' We march through the echoey concrete tunnel, and then, with a sense of self-conscious grandeur, emerge like gladiators into a world of emerald green. There, spreading before us, are hundreds of young soccer players, buzzing around on 24 immaculately lined fields. 
 I've been coaching soccer in Santa Fe, N.M., for seven years, and though I doubtless look like a moron out there, pacing the sidelines and yelling at my boys to open up! and play wide! and send it!, I've found it a worthy neurosis. I love playing the role of benevolent dictator to these kids, even 
 if they sometimes drive me nuts with their untied cleats, their endless pleading to be captain, their curious fixation on overflying airplanes at critical moments during a game. My wife thinks it's ridiculous to spend so much time obsessing -- who do I put at center mid, the crotch-tugging kid with the world's smallest bladder or the attention-deficit space case? -- but what does she know? She lacks the futbol gene. 
 All three of our boys have it. For much of the year, soccer rules our lives. We subscribe to Fox Soccer Channel. We go 
 to the summer camps run by those traveling brigades of loud-jerseyed coaches from Scotland or Cameroon (any foreign accent will do). We root for the University of New Mexico Lobos, who finished second in last year's N.C.A.A. championship. I even sit on the board of the local soccer league, where like a band of knee-socked druids we spend endless hours debating such earthshaking matters as whether or not to merge with a nearby league, or at what age we should implement the offsides rule.
 This year our team is called the Onslaught, a name that doesn't resonate well here in Santa Fe, a famously touchy-feely place full of magical people who think competition is mean. But the parents seem to have acquiesced, and I've heard many of them, even the magical ones, joining in on the team cheer: ''Toughest team you ever fought. We're the Onslaught and you're ... not!''
 We do a few warm-up drills, and the team takes a brisk lap around the field. Soon it's time for kickoff. 
 ''Remember,'' I whisper to Griffin in an attempt to impersonate Will Ferrell, ''I want you to go out there and 
 play dirty.''
 ''I know, Dad,'' he says. ''But don't get caught!''
 Coaching soccer to young players is a matter of planting one central idea over and over in their little minds until it finally takes root: stop bunching. I tell them to think of themselves as force fields; each force field must have its own separate sphere of influence. Most of the boys seem to accept this analogy, although every year someone asks, ''Yeah, but what is a force field?''
 It's frustrating how long it takes the message to sink in, but when it does, the game takes a quantum leap. The boys begin to hold positions. They see new patterns on the field. And then it happens: they begin to pass. This is the revelatory moment I live for as a coach.
 I'm happy to report that the Onslaught has experienced its revelation. The boys are playing a brisk passing game now and winning most of their matches. But winning is of secondary consequence, at least to them. No matter how they fare, you can bet they'll come running up at the end of the game with a single burning question: ''Hey, Coach -- what's for snack?''


GRAPHIC: Photo (PHOTOGRAPH FROM SPRI PRODUCTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); CHILDREN (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); ATHLETES (71%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%) Soccer; Children and Youth; Coaches and Managers

COMPANY: ADIDAS AG (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: ADS (FRA) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%)

PERSON: Hampton Sides

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (87%) NEW MEXICO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CAMEROON (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



679 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slip Late, but Still Gain for the Week

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A weak report on economic growth set back the stock market on Friday, but thanks to a rally earlier in the week, the market ended up with a five-day gain. 
 The Commerce Department said on Friday that the economy grew at a 1.6 percent annual rate in the third quarter -- the lowest quarterly rate in more than three years. While slowing economic growth might help reduce inflationary pressures, it could make it difficult for many corporations to meet their profit targets, so the report put a bit of a chill into the stock market.
Until Friday, though, the Dow Jones industrial average set a record high each day of the week. 
 Caterpillar, which was the worst weekly performer in the Dow for the week ended Oct. 20, was at the top of the stock performance chart last week, with a gain of 3.9 percent.
 For the week, the Dow gained 87.89 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 12,090.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 8.74 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,377.34. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.32 points, or 0.4, percent, to close at 2,350.62. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 4.67 percent from 4.79 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Ford MotorNYSE: FThe second-largest United States automaker reported a third-quarter loss of $5.8 billion, its largest quarterly loss in more than a decade. The company took huge reorganization charges to cover the closing of 16 plants.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.29WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.5%EST. '06 P/E: --Texas InstrumentsNYSE: TXNThe mobile phone chip maker posted third-quarter earnings that were in line with estimates, but its shares slipped after the company warned that a drop in orders would hurt revenue for the final three months of the year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.90WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.69%EST. '06 P/E: 17.95AltriaNYSE: MOThe cigarette and food company moved closer to spinning off its Kraft Foods unit, saying that it would make a final decision in January. Altria said previously that the deal was on hold because of tobacco litigation.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $81.85WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.74%EST. '06 P/E: 15.44Amazon.comNNM: AMZNShares of the online retailer climbed after the company reported third-quarter results that exceeded Wall Street estimates and raised its forecast for sales and operating earnings for the full year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.24WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.41%EST. '06 P/E: 88.72Clear ChannelNYSE: CCUThe largest United States radio broadcaster hired Goldman Sachs to explore ways to raise shareholder value. Analysts said Clear Channel could be taken private by the Mays family, which owns about 7 percent of the company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.69%EST. '06 P/E: 26.49Exxon MobilNYSE: XOMThe giant oil company said its third-quarter profit climbed to $10.5 billion, its second-highest profit ever. Oil prices climbed to a peak above $78 a barrel in the third quarter, but have since slipped back to about $61.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $71.46WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.75%EST. '06 P/E: 11.50BoeingNYSE: BAThe aircraft maker reported better-than-expected earnings for the third quarter, but its shares fell after it said it would have to spend significantly more on its new 787 Dreamliner jet.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $79.74WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.45%EST. '06 P/E: 31.85Red HatNNM: RHATShares in the software developer fell after a rival, Oracle, said it would start competing to provide support for products based on the Linux operating system. Oracle said it expected to charge substantially less than Red Hat.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.63WEEK'S CHANGE: -14.45%EST. '06 P/E: 32.16(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



680 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: The Candidate as Landlord 

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
FRANK FARRICKER is the hard-charging Democratic candidate for Connecticut State Senate from Greenwich, taking on a popular 16-year incumbent, with a campaign that emphasizes the need for affordable housing for young families in the ever-more-expensive suburbs. 
 But in Brooklyn, tenants in buildings he is developing say he is in the vanguard of a campaign to eviscerate rent protections for middle-class and working-class people, using what the tenants call phony applications to demolish buildings and evict residents.
Mr. Farricker's Penson Companies, a real estate investment concern, filed applications with state rent administrators over the last few months seeking to force out 17 long-term tenants so that five brownstones in Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope can be developed with larger, more luxurious apartments.
 Mr. Farricker, a vice president of the company, signed two of the applications, as well as loan documents for the projects. 
 New York State law allows landlords to force rent-protected tenants out of their apartments when their leases expire so the buildings can be demolished. But Mr. Farricker's building plans will leave the exterior walls intact -- while gutting interior walls and stairways -- similar to thousands of other brownstone renovations carried out across the city in recent years. 
 Landlord lawyers say that Mr. Farricker and other developers are merely exercising their rights under existing state law, but William J. Gribben, a lawyer who represents some of Mr. Farricker's tenants in Brooklyn, calls them ''phony demolitions,'' and said that more than a dozen similar cases are now being contested before administrative review panels or the courts. 
 In his campaign in the 36th Senate District in Connecticut, which includes Greenwich, North Stamford and New Canaan, Mr. Farricker highlights the plight of young people who can't afford to live in the towns they grew up in. ''You see people who want to build a community disappearing every day,'' he said in one recent speech. 
 Last week, he said in a telephone interview that he believed in affordable housing both in Fairfield County and in New York, where his company owns a portfolio of about 600 units of affordable housing, he said.
 ''We are renovating the buildings as responsible landlords,'' he said. ''We are as tenant-friendly as you can possibly be.''
 Mr. Farricker's company paid $7.9 million last March for the five brownstones in landmark districts on St. Johns Place in Park Slope and on State Street near Court Street in Brooklyn Heights. And after closing, he said, he found the buildings were in far worse condition than expected and would be uneconomical without a major renovation. He said he hoped to negotiate an agreement that would satisfy the tenants and allow him to restore the buildings. 
 But Bennett Baumer, a tenant organizer for the Metropolitan Council on Housing, said the building conditions were not at all dire and would be much better if Mr. Farricker would rent out vacant apartments in the buildings. 
 State officials said the eviction applications are still pending.
 Garry Osgood, a software analyst who pays $600 a month for half of a brownstone floor at 217 St. Johns Place, said he found Mr. Farricker's campaign position ''quite surprising.'' 
 ''I first became aware of Mr. Farricker not as an advocate of affordable housing but as an individual who wanted me out of my apartment,'' he said. 

Sales Flagging? $30 Million Says No
 NOT everyone is worried about the long-rumored collapse of the Manhattan housing market.
 One new forecast about the future of the co-op and condominium market in Manhattan predicts that prices will rise 5 percent a year for the next three years, as average Manhattan incomes rise, despite a wave of apartments coming to market. 
 This is no surprise to Kathleen M. Sloane, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens, who just closed a deal on a duplex penthouse with a rooftop garden at 823 Park Avenue, at 75th Street, for $30 million -- at or close to the record price on Park Avenue.
 The buyer is said to be one of a wave of richly rewarded hedge fund and finance executives prowling the market for trophy properties, as Wall Street forecasts another huge year for bonuses.
 The penthouse at 823 Park, a 1912 rental apartment building with 10-foot-ceilings that was gutted and converted to a condominium, has 7,500 square feet and 3,000 square feet of terraces on two levels. 
 The contract price, which was $5 million below the asking price, works out to about $4,000 a square foot.
 Jonathan Miller, the president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company, said the highest price paid on Park Avenue was in 2000, when Saul P. Steinberg, the financier, sold the huge duplex co-op atop 740 Park Avenue that had previously belonged to John D. Rockefeller Jr. At the time, varying accounts put the price at slightly above or below $30 million. 
 Since 823 Park is a new condominium still under renovation, the penthouse purchaser will be able to shape his new apartment to his own vision. 
 ''He was able to add as many fireplaces as he wanted,'' Ms. Sloane said.
 And perhaps in a sign of the times, other buyers at 823 Park have snapped up the most expensive apartments on the highest floors first. Of the 12 apartments in the building, most full-floor, the four most expensive apartments, from the ninth floor up, are now in contract. Deals have been struck for apartments on the sixth and seventh floors, too.
 Elliott Joseph, a partner in the Property Markets Group, which is renovating the building, said that when buyers were looking at apartments costing $10 million or more, they were often willing to pay a little bit more to snag a better apartment on a higher floor.
 He said sales in the building totaled $100 million so far, including more than $80 million this month. His partners are Kevin Maloney and Ziel Feldman.
 This activity is in sync with a new market forecast by two researchers at Business360 Inc., a small Manhattan consulting group that studied co-op and condominium prices and local economic trends and predictions. 
 They concluded that rising income, especially among the wealthy, would help the market absorb the new condominiums as they become available. 
 While they expect price declines in many other metropolitan areas across the country, they predict that ''those in Manhattan will hold their ground and advance in the near term.''
 John Marchant, who prepared the report with Roger Sharp, said incomes were rising in Manhattan, and so was the gap in income between the poorest 20 percent and the wealthiest, who make up the primary buyers of expensive co-ops and condominiums.
 Still, the gains in apartment prices they forecast are modest at best and could be derailed by a local economic downturn, especially if it hits high-fliers on Wall Street.
 After accounting for inflation, the price increases work out to 2.1 percent a year, a far cry from the 27 percent increase in average co-op prices in 2004, they said. 
 ''I'm still bullish on Manhattan, Mr. Marchant said. ''But not as bullish as I was.'' 

Exclusive Resorts Sells Nine Trump Condos
 STEVE CASE'S destination club, Exclusive Resorts, has sold its nine condominiums at Trump International Hotel and Tower, 1 Central Park West, for roughly $2 million each. 
 The sale allowed the club to lock in nearly $6 million in profits, or almost a 50 percent return in a little more than two years. But the club then leased the condos back from the buyer, a California developer, John A. Sobrato, who made his fortune building Silicon Valley office parks, and will continue to offer the condos for use by Exclusive Resorts members.
 Mr. Case, a founder of America Online and former chairman of that company and later of AOL Time Warner, bought a majority stake in Exclusive Resorts in 2004, as part of an expanding empire in resorts and companies promoting health and well-being. 
 Adam Wegner, the chief counsel for Exclusive Resorts, said that while the company ''wanted to be able to take some gains,'' the sale did not indicate that the company had lost confidence in the New York condominium market or the Trump project.
 ''New York is a strong market, and these are great properties,'' he said. 
 The prices paid in the bulk sale were considerably below those that individual buyers might pay, said Doug Russell, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens who is selling an apartment on the 16th floor, one floor above a similar apartment sold by Exclusive Resorts. The club sold its unit for $2.05 million; Mr. Russell's apartment is now in contract for $2.87 million.
 Destination clubs charge members large one-time membership fees, as high as $425,000, plus annual dues to use luxurious homes and apartments around the world. Dues of $27,000 give an Exclusive Resorts member 45 days a year at its properties. 
 Last summer, one large club, Tanner & Haley Resorts, filed for bankruptcy protection, and other companies, including Exclusive Resorts, announced plans to step up their reporting to members, to demonstrate that they had enough cash and real estate on hand to provide the membership refunds provided for in their contracts.
 Exclusive Resorts' sale and lease-back at Trump International would increase its cash on hand in its reports to members, but Mr. Wegner, who is also the president of the Destination Club Association, a trade group setting standards for the industry, said that the Tanner & Haley bankruptcy had nothing to do with the deal. 
 He noted that Exclusive Resorts now had $750 million in assets, including 20 apartments at Park Avenue Place, a 38-story high-rise on East 55th Street.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Farricker's company owns 217 St. Johns Place in Park Slope.
823 Park Avenue, at 75th Street.
 Steve Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); EVICTION (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); CITIES (65%) Housing; Elections; Rent Control and Stabilization; Evictions; Renting and Leasing ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Frauds and Swindling; Governors (US); Condominiums; Hotels and Motels; Landlords; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: Trump International Hotel and Tower (NYC); Exclusive Resorts

PERSON: Josh Barbanel; Frank Farricker; Kathleen M Sloane; Steve Case

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



681 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Who Removed the Asbestos? 

 BODY:

Q. I am in the process of buying a house and hired a home inspector. His report stated that asbestos in the basement should be removed by a licensed contractor. My lawyer added this to the contract, which was accepted and signed by the seller.
 After six weeks, the asbestos has been removed, but the seller still has not yet produced the contractor's license. What recourse do I have?

A. ''According to the question, the seller has a contractual obligation to provide evidence of the contractor's license,'' said Alexander Suslensky, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. ''And if the seller fails to comply with this obligation, the letter writer may sue the seller for breach of contract.'' 
 What that means, in practice, is that the buyer can either require the seller to comply with the terms of the contract -- and provide evidence that the asbestos was removed by a contractor qualified to do the job -- or refuse to go through with the sale if the seller does not provide the necessary information.
 ''Asbestos removal is subject to strict federal, state and city regulations,'' Mr. Suslensky said. For example, he said, in New York City, a contractor must be certified as an ''asbestos handler'' by the city's Department of Environmental Protection, and owners are responsible for the asbestos work of their contractor. The department's penalties for violations range from $1,000 to $10,000.

How Much Information Should a Landlord Get?

Q. Included with the lease renewal forms for my rent-stabilized apartment is an Emergency Update Information Form. It asks for my home telephone and cellphone numbers; the name, age and relationship of everyone living in my household; an emergency contact name and telephone number; and the name, address and telephone number of my employer. Is the landlord legally entitled to this information when I renew my lease?

A. ''I do not believe the landlord is entitled to most of this information,'' said David Ng, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants. Mr. Ng said that under both rent-stabilization and rent-control laws, the landlord may request from the tenant, on a form approved by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the names of all persons other than the tenant who live in the apartment.
 ''The only additional information the landlord may seek is whether this additional person is a family member; whether the person would be entitled to succession rights to the apartment and if so, the date of the commencement of occupancy; and whether the person is a senior citizen or disabled.
 ''In short, the landlord is entitled to information relating to a possible succession claim,'' Mr. Ng said. ''Nothing in the laws requires a regulated tenant to furnish information beyond the above.''

Is There a Time Limit On Collecting Late Fees?

Q. I serve on my co-op's board of directors. We have a apartment owner who is consistently late with her maintenance fees. Although she eventually pays her base charges, the late fees have accumulated to more than $1,000. Should the board be concerned about a statute of limitations?

A. ''Collecting late charges from co-op shareholders is a common problem, as the amounts are generally small and collection proceedings are expensive,'' said Elliott Meisel, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer. He noted that the oldest late fees may be deemed part of a ''continuing performance obligation,'' and in that case, the six-year statute of limitations begins to run after the last charge was imposed.
 ''The safest course for the co-op is to apply all payments made by the shareholder against the oldest outstanding amounts due,'' he said, ''allocating any remaining arrearages against the current maintenance charges, and making it clear, in writing, that any unpaid balance consists of all or a portion of the most recent charges.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



682 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Down Bound Train

BYLINE: By Charles Brecher. 
Charles Brecher is the research director of the Citizens Budget Commission and a professor of public and health administration at New York University's Wagner School.

 BODY:
NEW YORK's mass transit system, the lifeblood of the metropolitan economy, is once again a target of short-sighted political pressures, similar to those that brought the system to the brink of disaster in the early 1980's. Without a change in policy, New York's buses, subways and trains will soon be headed in reverse -- toward the unreliable service of the past.
 Last month, Peter Kalikow, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, ordered changes in the agency's financial plan that are sure to make him popular during a gubernatorial election, when candidates are eager to avoid discussion of fare increases, but which undercut the authority's financial health. 
Mr. Kalikow eliminated a five percent fare increase for subways, buses and trains that had been scheduled for next September on the ground that revenues are running ahead of schedule. That sounds great, particularly to riders, but it ignores long-term fiscal realities. 
 By the M.T.A.'s own calculations, it will face a $1 billion gap in 2008, expanding to a $2.1 billion shortfall -- equal to nearly one quarter of the authority's projected revenue -- in 2010. Of course, to reach those numbers, you have to use the authority's accounting standards, which ignore the fact that the M.T.A. finances continuing capital expenses, including replacement of subway cars and buses, with borrowed money. 
 According to more stringent Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which are less permissive toward the use of borrowing for regular capital expenses, the M.T.A.'s financial condition is actually much worse. There is a deficit of $1.7 billion in the current year, growing to $4.5 billion in 2010. By the end of 2010, the M.T.A.'s outstanding debt will grow to $32 billion, from $22 billion in 2005. 
 The most serious consequence of this heavy borrowing is the authority's ballooning debt service, which diverts revenue from operations and service improvements. Debt service is already $1.3 billion this year. By 2010 it is projected to reach $1.9 billion, which means half of every fare will be diverted to pay off the M.T.A.'s debt.
 To keep the buses and trains running, the transit system must be properly financed. Two new strategies are needed:
 First, the M.T.A. should make a greater commitment to productivity enhancements in order to reduce the rate of cost increases. The authority's current financial plan projects a 25 percent increase in expenditures over the next four years; it includes no savings from productivity. 
 A recent study by my organization, the Citizens Budget Commission, concluded that, by enacting productivity initiatives equal to the 2.5 percent average annual productivity gains achieved in the private sector, the authority could save about $900 million per year.
 Second, the M.T.A. needs more revenue. Operating revenue should be sufficient not only to meet the authority's payroll and other expenses, but to permit replacement of subway cars and buses and to finance other needs without excessive borrowing. 
 More than ten percent of the M.T.A.'s budget is covered by borrowing. Of the remainder, fares finance about 45 percent of expenditures; taxes about 28 percent; and tolls and fees another 16 percent. 
 A more equitable balance of revenue might look something like this: fares should account for half, taxes for one quarter and tolls and fees for another quarter. 
 Fares are rightly the largest source of revenue because riders get direct benefits from transit services; slightly higher taxes are appropriate because everyone in the region benefits indirectly from the economic efficiency of mass transit; and significantly higher tolls and fees are appropriate both because drivers benefit from the traffic reduction made possible by mass transit and because drivers should pay more to offset their cars' contributions to congestion and pollution. Higher tolls and increased license and registration fees would also encourage more commuters to move from cars to mass transit. 
 Other revenue options include higher gasoline taxes and congestion-pricing plans, similar to those recently adopted by London and Stockholm. In those cities, vehicles entering the central business district pay surcharges, monitored by technologies employing E-ZPass-like scanners and cameras.
 To achieve the twin goals of increased, and rebalanced, revenue, we need a new political consensus. The biggest challenge will most likely be resistance to higher tolls and fees. 
 So progress on this agenda depends on more than an increased commitment from the M.T.A. to deal with its budget shortfalls and the region's mass transit needs. It also requires strong political leadership. If we are to avoid a fiscal disaster at the M.T.A., we need leaders who value long-term stability more than the short-term benefits of simply ducking the political heat that accompanies an increase in fares and fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ACCOUNTING (65%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Transit Systems; Finances; Labor; Productivity; Subways; Buses; Railroads

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Charles Brecher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



683 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: A Sound Investment

BYLINE: By Jim Nordgren. 
Jim Nordgren is a co-vice president of Federated Conservationists of Westchester County.

DATELINE: South Salem 

 BODY:
AFTER two decades of effort, Davids Island, a 78-acre parcel of uninhabited land in Long Island Sound, is about to be returned to the public. The question now is what will we do with it? 
 It wasn't long ago that the island, nestled in the Sound just off New Rochelle, was a cold war military base stocked with Nike surface-to-air missiles defending New York. Later, there was talk of putting a nuclear power plant on the site. More recently, the island was to be an enclave of luxury condos.
We should hope that will never happen. Provided New Rochelle follows through with plans to sell the island to Westchester County, the island, which today is an officially designated brownfield due to contamination from asbestos and armaments on the old military site, can be transformed into a public park and nature preserve. 
 We can use the space. New Rochelle and surrounding towns have only about five acres of parkland per 1,000 residents -- not much more than New York City. Since 90 percent of the shoreline on the Sound is developed, there is little public access to the water. What scant publicly accessible shoreline is left should be protected for people and wildlife.
 Fortunately, money is available to achieve that goal. Last month, Representative Nita Lowey secured $9 million for the island's cleanup. Those funds, added to previous appropriations, bring the total available for Davids Island to $18 million. 
 Still more money may be in the pipeline. In September, Congress passed the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act, providing $25 million annually to protect and enhance sites that have significant ecological, educational, open space, public access or recreational value. Davids Island meets all the criteria.
 But what exactly should be done? A lack of utilities prohibits intensive use of the island. The most appropriate use would be low-impact, passive recreation with improved public access. With more than a mile of beaches, the island offers tremendous opportunities for swimming, picnicking, kayaking and canoeing. Amenities like a playground, lockers and a concession stand would add to visitors' enjoyment.
 The historic buildings on the island are just about beyond repair, but perhaps one could be preserved as a visitors center. Renovating it into an environmentally sensitive, ''green design'' building, using solar energy and geothermal heating and cooling, might compensate for the island's lack of infrastructure while serving as a model for sustainable design. Visitors could also learn about the island's rich history, first as a Native American encampment and later as a military base, and about the importance of Long Island Sound and the continuing threat pollution poses to its ecology.
 As for transportation, a bridge would be expensive and unnecessary. Instead, a ferry could connect the mainland with the island nicely. We can follow the example of Greenwich, Conn., whose residents use ferries to get to beaches on Great Captain's Island and Island Beach. 
 Too often, parks are used for people at the expense of wildlife, or vice versa. Davids Island affords us a chance to manage the environment for both people and nature. It is rich in biodiversity, providing a haven for migratory and nesting birds and marine life. 
 Habitat can be restored and nesting sites protected so that declining bird populations like piping plovers, least terns, oystercatchers, sandpipers, egrets and herons can find sanctuary on the island. An osprey nest has already been moved and protected. Turtle nesting sites should also be restored and protected. The endangered Kemp's ridley and loggerhead turtles regularly visit the Sound, and can be encouraged to nest on Davids Island.
 Over the long term, Davids Island and nearby Huckleberry Island should be incorporated into the Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife Refuge, increasing the amount of nationally protected open space on Long Island Sound. 
 Davids Island should not be developed. It represents a unique opportunity to learn from the natural world, to restore a quiet oasis to its natural state and simultaneously to educate residents of Westchester County about the ecological, economic and social value of open space. A thorough cleanup and environmentally sensitive renovation of the island will make great use of precious public space, and render those bad old plans for condos and nuclear power plants a distant memory.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); BEACHES (87%); GREEN BUILDING (86%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); BROWNFIELD SITES (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); ASBESTOS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); HVAC SYSTEMS (65%); BOATING & RAFTING (63%) Wildlife Sanctuaries

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (50%) Jim Nordgren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Davids Island

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



684 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; CULTURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Spur to Growth, With Stage and Screen

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 

 BODY:
AFTER the concave facade of fake brushed aluminum, perhaps the most striking physical feature of the new South Orange Performing Arts Center is that the stage is nearly as big as the entire orchestra section of the theater. 
 ''The experience for the audience and the experience for the performer are equally immediate,'' said Jessica Finkelberg, executive director of the 425-seat arts center, known as Sopac, scheduled to open on Friday with a performance by the comedian Paula Poundstone.
 The dimensions also follow the intended function of the arts center: to provide quality live entertainment in an intimate setting to discriminating suburban audiences who may not always want to battle bridge and tunnel traffic for the culture they crave. 
 Ms. Finkelberg, who lives in Jersey City, described South Orange residents as ''urban at heart, suburban by choice.''
 ''You come because you want to preserve a certain kind of life, but with a lawn,'' she said. 
 Scheduled acts include the Woodstock-generation favorite Richie Havens, the jazz pianist Eddie Palmieri and the Takacs String Quartet. A Nov. 16 gala will feature the cellist Yo-Yo Ma and the clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera in a jazz and classical music program titled ''Music of Two Worlds.'' 
 Arts and economic development are the two worlds that South Orange officials are hoping the arts center will bridge. By issuing bonds for almost the entire $14.8 million cost of the project, the township joins a growing number of municipalities, from Newark to Rochester, that are banking on performing arts centers as catalysts for growth.
 John O. Gross, business administrator of South Orange, said the arts center's film and stage patrons would encourage bars, restaurants, shops and other businesses to open in town, which in turn would generate employment and tax revenues that repay the investment. 
 Seton Hall University, which will use Sopac for its theater program, contributed $1 million. Some revenue will come from a lease with Clearview Cinemas, which will operate a five-screen multiplex at the center, essentially sharing its vaulting lobby of glass and maple panels. The arts center will also share an existing parking lot used by train commuters.
 Some of the bond money will be repaid with local taxes, as well as contributions raised by the center's board, whose chairwoman, Barbara Stoller, is also president of a local synagogue, Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel. 
 ''We want to be the thing that people feel good about and value,'' Ms. Stoller said of the arts center, ''not the thing that took up parking spaces.'' 
 Ricardo and Pamela Bradshaw, who were meeting outdoors at a cafe near Sopac on a recent afternoon, expressed mixed feelings about the arts center. They said they had little doubt it would sell tickets, and that it would spur growth downtown. 
 But just what kind of growth is what worries the Bradshaws, who have lived in South Orange for five years. They said that attracting more residents would only increase their $17,000 annual property tax bill, by raising school costs. 
 ''I think it'll do well,'' said Mr. Bradshaw, 40, who owns a technology company. ''My fear is that once we get the arts center, we'll start building more condos here and we'll just get higher taxes.''
 Officials said Sopac was not trying to compete with larger, established centers in the area, like the 1,200-seat Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn or the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, with its 2,800-seat Prudential Hall. 
 ''We're modest-sized,'' Ms. Finkelberg said, ''and we're looking to present artists that don't have a venue appropriate for them in this area.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD -- The South Orange Performing Arts Center. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); BONDS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TRENDS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); TRAINS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%) Culture; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: South Orange Performing Arts Center (NJ)

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) South Orange (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



685 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Promises Unkept

 BODY:
The governor's race has been quiet this year. One reason is that a popular incumbent is running for re-election. But another is that Connecticut's enormous budget surpluses have provided a veneer of calm for those who worry about the state's fiscal health. The numbers are impressive: on June 30, at the end of the last fiscal year, the state had a surplus of about $940.5 million, which Gov. M. Jodi Rell used to retire state debt, fatten a ''rainy day'' fund and replenish the long-neglected teachers' pension fund. 
 The surpluses have continued to roll in. As of Oct. 24, the budget surplus accumulated since July 1 is $244 million. As long as the state cash register is ringing, it looks reassuringly as if all is well.
Look below the surface, however, and things are not as they seem. Connecticut's balance sheet looks good in part because the state simply has not owned up to some of its financial obligations and promises. 
 The biggest due bills loom ahead: the state has not set aside enough money for state pension obligations, retiree health care or the teachers' pensions. But there are a myriad of smaller funds whose ostensibly ''dedicated'' income streams are regularly diverted at least in part to the State Treasury. Once upon a time, for example, the state came close to fully funding a program that helps economically disadvantaged Connecticut students attend college. Several years ago, to help balance the budget, the state reduced its funding by 30 percent. The money has stayed at that level ever since. 
 One of the worst examples is the shell game the state plays with the portion of ratepayers' electric bills that supposedly pays for energy conservation programs. In 2003, the state diverted millions of dollars from the fund to help cover a budget deficit. Then it used the fund to borrow tens of millions of dollars in the form of bonds, and every year it continues to take between $20 million to $25 million from the fund to pay off that debt, which the state plans to continue to do until 2011. 
 Then there's the promise the state made 20 years ago when it mandated big raises in teachers' salaries. In return, Connecticut pledged to pay for half of municipal education budgets. But the state achieves that goal only in the very poorest cities. Statewide, Connecticut pays for less than 40 percent of education budgets. Municipalities now pay among the highest salaries for teachers in the country. 
 So, enjoy the monthly announcements of the state budget surpluses. But remember: they are only illusions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); UTILITY RATES (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



686 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CULTURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Spur to Growth, With Stage and Screen

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 

 BODY:
AFTER the concave facade of fake brushed aluminum, perhaps the most striking physical feature of the new South Orange Performing Arts Center is that the stage is nearly as big as the entire orchestra section of the theater. 
 ''The experience for the audience and the experience for the performer are equally immediate,'' said Jessica Finkelberg, executive director of the 425-seat arts center, known as Sopac, scheduled to open on Friday with a performance by the comedian Paula Poundstone.
 The dimensions also follow the intended function of the arts center: to provide quality live entertainment in an intimate setting to discriminating suburban audiences who may not always want to battle bridge and tunnel traffic for the culture they crave. 
 Ms. Finkelberg, who lives in Jersey City, described South Orange residents as ''urban at heart, suburban by choice.''
 ''You come because you want to preserve a certain kind of life, but with a lawn,'' she said. 
 Scheduled acts include the Woodstock-generation favorite Richie Havens, the jazz pianist Eddie Palmieri and the Takacs String Quartet. A Nov. 16 gala will feature the cellist Yo-Yo Ma and the clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera in a jazz and classical music program titled ''Music of Two Worlds.'' 
 Arts and economic development are the two worlds that South Orange officials are hoping the arts center will bridge. By issuing bonds for almost the entire $14.8 million cost of the project, the township joins a growing number of municipalities, from Newark to Rochester, that are banking on performing arts centers as catalysts for growth.
 John O. Gross, business administrator of South Orange, said the arts center's film and stage patrons would encourage bars, restaurants, shops and other businesses to open in town, which in turn would generate employment and tax revenues that repay the investment. 
 Seton Hall University, which will use Sopac for its theater program, contributed $1 million. Some revenue will come from a lease with Clearview Cinemas, which will operate a five-screen multiplex at the center, essentially sharing its vaulting lobby of glass and maple panels. The arts center will also share an existing parking lot used by train commuters.
 Some of the bond money will be repaid with local taxes, as well as contributions raised by the center's board, whose chairwoman, Barbara Stoller, is also president of a local synagogue, Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel. 
 ''We want to be the thing that people feel good about and value,'' Ms. Stoller said of the arts center, ''not the thing that took up parking spaces.'' 
 Ricardo and Pamela Bradshaw, who were meeting outdoors at a cafe near Sopac on a recent afternoon, expressed mixed feelings about the arts center. They said they had little doubt it would sell tickets, and that it would spur growth downtown. 
 But just what kind of growth is what worries the Bradshaws, who have lived in South Orange for five years. They said that attracting more residents would only increase their $17,000 annual property tax bill, by raising school costs. 
 ''I think it'll do well,'' said Mr. Bradshaw, 40, who owns a technology company. ''My fear is that once we get the arts center, we'll start building more condos here and we'll just get higher taxes.''
 Officials said Sopac was not trying to compete with larger, established centers in the area, like the 1,200-seat Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn or the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, with its 2,800-seat Prudential Hall. 
 ''We're modest-sized,'' Ms. Finkelberg said, ''and we're looking to present artists that don't have a venue appropriate for them in this area.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD -- The South Orange Performing Arts Center. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); BONDS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TRENDS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); TRAINS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%) Culture; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: South Orange Performing Arts Center (NJ)

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) South Orange (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



687 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Helping Shops to Grow After the Banks Say No

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FROM experienced businesswoman in Paraguay to loan shark's debtor in New York.
 That was the route that Carmen Valdez traveled in an early stage of her effort to build in Queens the kind of beauty salon business she owned in her native country before immigrating to the United States 15 years ago.
 It is a route not surprising in immigrant communities in America, where small-scale business owners and entrepreneurs are often denied loans by banks and other mainstream institutions worried about the financial soundness of the businesses and those behind them, experts on such communities say. 
 A patron of her first Queens salon referred Ms. Valdez to a man who lent her $3,500, at a usurious interest rate -- 10 percent a month. She knew the terms were unfair but needed the money, she said, to take advantage of an opportunity a decade ago to expand that salon -- she now has two -- and thought she had no other options. 
 Three banks had refused to give her a loan -- ''they said I didn't have a credit history,'' she recalled in a recent interview -- and she did not know at the time that there were government agencies and nonprofit groups that could have provided her with a loan at a fraction of the cost, or helped her seek one.
 Ms. Valdez, 52, immigrated to the United States from Paraguay in 1991 with her husband and three children because ''we wanted a good education for the children,'' she said. In Asuncion, the Paraguayan capital, she owned three beauty salons and a school that taught hair care, skin care and other salon-related work skills. 
 She still owns the salons and school in Asuncion, she said, but leases them out, using the rental income to maintain them and to help support relatives in Paraguay.
 Six months after arriving in Queens, Ms. Valdez, who lives in Woodside, and two other women from Paraguay invested $4,000 each to open a small hair salon, which they called Parisien, in a former butcher shop in nearby Sunnyside. Immigrants from Central and South America are numerous in both areas. 
 Several years later, and at that point the sole owner, Ms. Valdez saw a chance to add nail care and massage services when the store next door became vacant. ''I needed $7,000 and I had $3,500,'' she said. The monthly 10 percent interest on the one-year loan amounted to more than the principal, she said, and ''I've heard about people paying 20 percent a month.''
 Laine Rolong, a community relations specialist with Accion New York, which provides business loans of $500 to $50,000 to people whose credit histories, or lack thereof, prompt rejections by banks, said that Ms. Valdez's story was not unique. 
 She said a main complaint Accion New York receives from community organizations regarding immigrant business owners ''is that a lot of people go to informal lenders because they do not see any option.'' Measuring the extent of such activity is difficult, she said, because many who borrow from loan sharks do not want to talk about it. 
 Very often, she said, the lender in such a transaction is from the same community as the borrower.
 Accion New York, a nonprofit organization, says its clients are ''95 percent minority, almost all immigrants and 40 percent women, all groups who face severe disadvantages toward gaining access to credit.'' (Other experts note that nonimmigrant minority borrowers often face the same disadvantages.) 
 The organization charges annual interest of 10.99 percent to 17.99 percent, slightly higher than the roughly 10 to 14 percent that banks are generally charging these days, but a difference that the group needs to remain viable, said a spokeswoman, Laura Kozien. She said that the organization had a 96 percent repayment rate, and that since its founding in 1991, it had made 9,100 loans totaling $62 million. 
 Three of those loans have gone to Ms. Valdez, who learned about the group after entering into her 10-percent-a-month deal. 
 One loan, for $7,000 in the 1990s, went partly to upgrade her first salon. Two later loans, totaling $36,000, have helped finance her second salon, also called Parisien, which she opened in April in Woodside, as well as the creation of a school -- to open shortly in attached space -- offering courses in salon work skills. 
 Having a school in New York, Ms. Valdez said, is something ''I always had in mind.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmen Valdez at Parisien, a beauty salon in Queens. She once took out a loan at interest of 10 percent a month because she needed the money to expand her business. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (77%); REFUGEES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%) Minorities (US); Immigration and Refugees; Women; Credit; Entrepreneurship; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: Accion New York (Orgn)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PARAGUAY (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



688 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Down Bound Train

BYLINE: By Charles Brecher. 
Charles Brecher is the research director of the Citizens Budget Commission and a professor of public and health administration at New York University's Wagner School.

 BODY:
NEW YORK's mass transit system, the lifeblood of the metropolitan economy, is once again a target of short-sighted political pressures, similar to those that brought the system to the brink of disaster in the early 1980's. Without a change in policy, New York's buses, subways and trains will soon be headed in reverse -- toward the unreliable service of the past.
 Last month, Peter Kalikow, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, ordered changes in the agency's financial plan that are sure to make him popular during a gubernatorial election, when candidates are eager to avoid discussion of fare increases, but which undercut the authority's financial health. 
Mr. Kalikow eliminated a five percent fare increase for subways, buses and trains that had been scheduled for next September on the ground that revenues are running ahead of schedule. That sounds great, particularly to riders, but it ignores long-term fiscal realities. 
 By the M.T.A.'s own calculations, it will face a $1 billion gap in 2008, expanding to a $2.1 billion shortfall -- equal to nearly one quarter of the authority's projected revenue -- in 2010. Of course, to reach those numbers, you have to use the authority's accounting standards, which ignore the fact that the M.T.A. finances continuing capital expenses, including replacement of subway cars and buses, with borrowed money. 
 According to more stringent Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which are less permissive toward the use of borrowing for regular capital expenses, the M.T.A.'s financial condition is actually much worse. There is a deficit of $1.7 billion in the current year, growing to $4.5 billion in 2010. By the end of 2010, the M.T.A.'s outstanding debt will grow to $32 billion, from $22 billion in 2005. 
 The most serious consequence of this heavy borrowing is the authority's ballooning debt service, which diverts revenue from operations and service improvements. Debt service is already $1.3 billion this year. By 2010 it is projected to reach $1.9 billion, which means half of every fare will be diverted to pay off the M.T.A.'s debt.
 To keep the buses and trains running, the transit system must be properly financed. Two new strategies are needed:
 First, the M.T.A. should make a greater commitment to productivity enhancements in order to reduce the rate of cost increases. The authority's current financial plan projects a 25 percent increase in expenditures over the next four years; it includes no savings from productivity. 
 A recent study by my organization, the Citizens Budget Commission, concluded that, by enacting productivity initiatives equal to the 2.5 percent average annual productivity gains achieved in the private sector, the authority could save about $900 million per year.
 Second, the M.T.A. needs more revenue. Operating revenue should be sufficient not only to meet the authority's payroll and other expenses, but to permit replacement of subway cars and buses and to finance other needs without excessive borrowing. 
 More than ten percent of the M.T.A.'s budget is covered by borrowing. Of the remainder, fares finance about 45 percent of expenditures; taxes about 28 percent; and tolls and fees another 16 percent. 
 A more equitable balance of revenue might look something like this: fares should account for half, taxes for one quarter and tolls and fees for another quarter. 
 Fares are rightly the largest source of revenue because riders get direct benefits from transit services; slightly higher taxes are appropriate because everyone in the region benefits indirectly from the economic efficiency of mass transit; and significantly higher tolls and fees are appropriate both because drivers benefit from the traffic reduction made possible by mass transit and because drivers should pay more to offset their cars' contributions to congestion and pollution. Higher tolls and increased license and registration fees would also encourage more commuters to move from cars to mass transit. 
 Other revenue options include higher gasoline taxes and congestion-pricing plans, similar to those recently adopted by London and Stockholm. In those cities, vehicles entering the central business district pay surcharges, monitored by technologies employing E-ZPass-like scanners and cameras.
 To achieve the twin goals of increased, and rebalanced, revenue, we need a new political consensus. The biggest challenge will likely be resistance to higher tolls and fees. 
 So progress on this agenda depends on more than an increased commitment from the M.T.A. to deal with its budget shortfalls and the region's mass transit needs. It also requires strong political leadership. If we are to avoid a fiscal disaster at the M.T.A., we need leaders who value long-term stability more than the short-term benefits of simply ducking the political heat that accompanies an increase in fares and fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ACCOUNTING (65%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Transit Systems; Finances; Labor; Productivity; Subways; Buses; Railroads

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Charles Brecher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



689 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CITY PEOPLE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Drum Major For the Marchers of New York

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
Gallery aficionados have The New Yorker's Goings On About Town. Clubbers have Time Out New York. But where do you turn if you're a left-wing activist with nothing to picket? 
 To Todd Eaton, the gregarious 44-year-old who is behind NYProtest, a two-year-old daily listing of progressive street demonstrations and gatherings in the metropolitan area. The listing appears on Riseup.net, a site that offers ''mail, lists and hosting to those working on liberatory social change.''
The events on Mr. Eaton's list vary widely, in subject and level of intensity. One day Mr. Eaton might offer details about a rally in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, on behalf of North Carolina hog workers, or about a picket line protesting employer practices at a popular Midtown trattoria. The next day, listings might include an announcement of a costume-dance benefit for a distributor of anarchist books (''Kissing booth! Cavern of desire!'') or a gathering to write letters to imprisoned animal rights activists (''Yummy Vegan Snacks and Desserts Will Be Served''). 
 ''I jokingly refer to him as the Spam King of the Left, because everyone knows who Todd is,'' said Thomas Good, secretary of the Movement for a Democratic Society, the postgraduate arm of Students for a Democratic Society.
 Spring and fall are high season for demonstrations, which is why Mr. Eaton was closeted one recent afternoon in his apartment in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, scanning dozens of e-mail messages from radical organizers around town. ''I'm totally behind,'' he said, the dark circles under his eyes matching his black T-shirt, which bore the words ''We Will Not Be Silent,'' in both English and Farsi. 
 One reason Mr. Eaton launched NYProtest, he said, was to create a clearinghouse for the New York leftist movement, which he sees as frustratingly atomized. But having a political mission doesn't mean he doesn't enjoy himself.
 ''Sometimes it's fun,'' he said with a chuckle, ''because you're putting fire-breathing old-time Marxists next to 'How to Recycle Your Electronics Day' announcements.'' 
 Mr. Eaton, who was raised in Brooklyn Heights and attended St. Ann's School there, was the child of antiwar liberals. ''I was a pink-diaper, not a red-diaper, baby,'' he said.
 Around age 8, he attended his first protest, against the proposed widening of Atlantic Avenue. During his years at New York University, he participated in the No Nukes movement, and since then, he said, he has taken part in more than 100 street demonstrations, protesting everything from the militarization of space to the Atlantic Yards project. 
 A former drywall contractor and Wall Street secretary, Mr. Eaton has plenty of time to attend demonstrations. ''I'm an unemployed secretary squandering a small inheritance,'' he said. 
 Mr. Eaton's cluttered studio apartment speaks to his strong political feelings. The space, lined with milk crates stacked nearly to the ceiling, is filled with the tools of the protesting trade, among them bells, buttons (''It's the Settlements, Stupid'') and bright red drums made of buckets salvaged from construction sites. There is also what Mr. Eaton calls the protest coffin, a scuffed black casket made of plywood, which he built himself. 
 ''You can put a sign on the side of it,'' Mr. Eaton said, ''for whatever abstract concept you think is dead.'' JOHN FREEMAN GILL


GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Eaton, whom a fellow activist described as ''the Spam King of the Left.'' (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); STRIKES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RIOTS (67%); MEAT FREE DIETS (66%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (60%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (50%) Demonstrations and Riots; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: NYProtest (Orgn); Riseup.net

PERSON: Todd Eaton; John Freeman Gill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



690 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Our Pampered Police

BYLINE: By Tom Suozzi. 
Tom Suozzi is the Nassau County executive.

 BODY:
NASSAU COUNTY police officers deserve a good wage for the hard work they do to keep us safe. Few jobs entail the risk to personal safety faced daily by our officers. They also deserve thanks for a job well done, proof of which is in the crime statistics: Nassau County has the lowest crime rate of any municipality of its size in the nation.
 Though our officers are the very best at what they do, the uncomfortable truth in Nassau County is that taxpayers bear an unfair burden paying for public safety because our more than 2,600 police officers get uncommonly generous salaries and benefits. 
Putting it bluntly, Nassau County police officers have a compensation package the likes of which is rarely seen in either the private or public sector. The average Nassau County police department salary is more than $120,000 per year, including overtime. Meanwhile, the average officer is scheduled to work the equivalent of about 40 weeks a year. 
 In addition, last year the county paid an average of more than $254,000 in ''termination pay'' for unused sick and vacation days to officers leaving the department. In total, 99 officers received $25.2 million in termination pay. Three high-ranking officers each left the department with termination pay of more than $500,000. 
 Because of the favorable work schedules previously negotiated by their unions, officers are able to bank large amounts of vacation time while still enjoying time off. They then cash in their unused vacation and sick days upon retirement. Officers receive this taxpayer-financed golden parachute in addition to very generous pensions and health insurance for life. 
 This exorbitant compensation might be partly justified if it were based on a reasoned analysis of what the county needs to attract and retain skilled police officers. But our main competitor for talent, New York City, pays officers on average 40 percent less than Nassau County and does not allow them to collect termination pay for unused vacation and sick days.
 The county contract with police officers is set to expire at the end of this year. The Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the union that represents rank and file police officers, is seeking even more pay increases as well as a reduction in the number of days officers have to work. The county simply cannot afford it.
 A recent study indicated that Nassau County residents pay the second highest property taxes in the nation. We cannot afford to raise residents' taxes in order to increase the already excessive pay and benefits of police officers. 
 My 2007 budget calls for labor concessions from police officers and detectives of $25 million, a savings we could easily achieve if the unions recognized their responsibility to help maintain the fiscal stability we have worked so hard to achieve. 
 Fewer than five years ago, the county faced potential bankruptcy in part because of the effects of irresponsible labor agreements. The P.B.A. didn't cause the mess by itself; a succession of elected officials in the county, aided by overly generous decisions by state arbitrators, allowed P.B.A. contract negotiations to become regular raids on the public treasury. Over the years, too many elected officials, eager to have the union's endorsement and campaign contributions, effectively abdicated the role of public watchdog. 
 The P.B.A. has already declared an impasse in the current negotiations, walking away from the bargaining table because a flawed state law on binding arbitration actually encourages them to do so. The contract dispute now will probably be decided by a state arbitrator who is unelected and unaccountable to taxpayers. Arbitrators, who depend on the unions for future business, regularly award big raises and benefits without any basis in equity or economics.
 I am asking taxpayers to join me in two critical efforts. 
 First, we must stand firm against the P.B.A.'s demands. No additional incentives are needed for the Nassau County Police Department to attract top-quality candidates eager for an opportunity to earn $120,000 a year. Indeed, more than 12,000 applicants sat for the most recent county police test, including many veterans of the New York Police Department. 
 Second, I hope Nassau taxpayers will join me in persuading our next governor and the state Legislature not to reauthorize the binding arbitration law when it expires next summer. Allowing the law to expire will take contract negotiations out of the hands of unelected state arbitrators who are dependent on unions for their livelihoods. Instead, it will put the process into the hands of the officials who are elected both to keep our streets safe and to watch after the public's pocketbook. That's where the responsibility belongs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SICK LEAVE (87%); COUNTIES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); OVERTIME (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); STATISTICS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%) Police; Wages and Salaries; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation; Law and Legislation; Fringe Benefits

ORGANIZATION: Patrolmen's Benevolent Assn

PERSON: Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



691 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; CULTURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Spur to Growth, With Stage and Screen

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 

 BODY:
AFTER the concave facade of fake brushed aluminum, perhaps the most striking physical feature of the new South Orange Performing Arts Center is that the stage is nearly as big as the entire orchestra section of the theater. 
 ''The experience for the audience and the experience for the performer are equally immediate,'' said Jessica Finkelberg, executive director of the 425-seat arts center, known as Sopac, scheduled to open on Friday with a performance by the comedian Paula Poundstone.
 The dimensions also follow the intended function of the arts center: to provide quality live entertainment in an intimate setting to discriminating suburban audiences who may not always want to battle bridge and tunnel traffic for the culture they crave. 
 Ms. Finkelberg, who lives in Jersey City, described South Orange residents as ''urban at heart, suburban by choice.''
 ''You come because you want to preserve a certain kind of life, but with a lawn,'' she said. 
 Scheduled acts include the Woodstock-generation favorite Richie Havens, the jazz pianist Eddie Palmieri and the Takacs String Quartet. A Nov. 16 gala will feature the cellist Yo-Yo Ma and the clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera in a jazz and classical music program titled ''Music of Two Worlds.'' 
 Arts and economic development are the two worlds that South Orange officials are hoping the arts center will bridge. By issuing bonds for almost the entire $14.8 million cost of the project, the township joins a growing number of municipalities, from Newark to Rochester, that are banking on performing arts centers as catalysts for growth.
 John O. Gross, business administrator of South Orange, said the arts center's film and stage patrons would encourage bars, restaurants, shops and other businesses to open in town, which in turn would generate employment and tax revenues that repay the investment. 
 Seton Hall University, which will use Sopac for its theater program, contributed $1 million. Some revenue will come from a lease with Clearview Cinemas, which will operate a five-screen multiplex at the center, essentially sharing its vaulting lobby of glass and maple panels. The arts center will also share an existing parking lot used by train commuters.
 Some of the bond money will be repaid with local taxes, as well as contributions raised by the center's board, whose chairwoman, Barbara Stoller, is also president of a local synagogue, Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel. 
 ''We want to be the thing that people feel good about and value,'' Ms. Stoller said of the arts center, ''not the thing that took up parking spaces.'' 
 Ricardo and Pamela Bradshaw, who were meeting outdoors at a cafe near Sopac on a recent afternoon, expressed mixed feelings about the arts center. They said they had little doubt it would sell tickets, and that it would spur growth downtown. 
 But just what kind of growth is what worries the Bradshaws, who have lived in South Orange for five years. They said that attracting more residents would only increase their $17,000 annual property tax bill, by raising school costs. 
 ''I think it'll do well,'' said Mr. Bradshaw, 40, who owns a technology company. ''My fear is that once we get the arts center, we'll start building more condos here and we'll just get higher taxes.''
 Officials said Sopac was not trying to compete with larger, established centers in the area, like the 1,200-seat Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn or the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, with its 2,800-seat Prudential Hall. 
 ''We're modest-sized,'' Ms. Finkelberg said, ''and we're looking to present artists that don't have a venue appropriate for them in this area.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD -- The South Orange Performing Arts Center. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); BONDS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TRENDS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); TRAINS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%) Culture; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: South Orange Performing Arts Center (NJ)

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) South Orange (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



692 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CULTURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Spur to Growth, With Stage and Screen

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 

 BODY:
AFTER the concave facade of fake brushed aluminum, perhaps the most striking physical feature of the new South Orange Performing Arts Center is that the stage is nearly as big as the entire orchestra section of the theater. 
 ''The experience for the audience and the experience for the performer are equally immediate,'' said Jessica Finkelberg, executive director of the 425-seat arts center, known as Sopac, scheduled to open on Friday with a performance by the comedian Paula Poundstone.
 The dimensions also follow the intended function of the arts center: to provide quality live entertainment in an intimate setting to discriminating suburban audiences who may not always want to battle bridge and tunnel traffic for the culture they crave. 
 Ms. Finkelberg, who lives in Jersey City, described South Orange residents as ''urban at heart, suburban by choice.''
 ''You come because you want to preserve a certain kind of life, but with a lawn,'' she said. 
 Scheduled acts include the Woodstock-generation favorite Richie Havens, the jazz pianist Eddie Palmieri and the Takacs String Quartet. A Nov. 16 gala will feature the cellist Yo-Yo Ma and the clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera in a jazz and classical music program titled ''Music of Two Worlds.'' 
 Arts and economic development are the two worlds that South Orange officials are hoping the arts center will bridge. By issuing bonds for almost the entire $14.8 million cost of the project, the township joins a growing number of municipalities, from Newark to Rochester, that are banking on performing arts centers as catalysts for growth.
 John O. Gross, business administrator of South Orange, said the arts center's film and stage patrons would encourage bars, restaurants, shops and other businesses to open in town, which in turn would generate employment and tax revenues that repay the investment. 
 Seton Hall University, which will use Sopac for its theater program, contributed $1 million. Some revenue will come from a lease with Clearview Cinemas, which will operate a five-screen multiplex at the center, essentially sharing its vaulting lobby of glass and maple panels. The arts center will also share an existing parking lot used by train commuters.
 Some of the bond money will be repaid with local taxes, as well as contributions raised by the center's board, whose chairwoman, Barbara Stoller, is also president of a local synagogue, Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel. 
 ''We want to be the thing that people feel good about and value,'' Ms. Stoller said of the arts center, ''not the thing that took up parking spaces.'' 
 Ricardo and Pamela Bradshaw, who were meeting outdoors at a cafe near Sopac on a recent afternoon, expressed mixed feelings about the arts center. They said they had little doubt it would sell tickets, and that it would spur growth downtown. 
 But just what kind of growth is what worries the Bradshaws, who have lived in South Orange for five years. They said that attracting more residents would only increase their $17,000 annual property tax bill, by raising school costs. 
 ''I think it'll do well,'' said Mr. Bradshaw, 40, who owns a technology company. ''My fear is that once we get the arts center, we'll start building more condos here and we'll just get higher taxes.''
 Officials said Sopac was not trying to compete with larger, established centers in the area, like the 1,200-seat Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn or the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, with its 2,800-seat Prudential Hall. 
 ''We're modest-sized,'' Ms. Finkelberg said, ''and we're looking to present artists that don't have a venue appropriate for them in this area.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD -- The South Orange Performing Arts Center. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); BONDS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TRENDS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); TRAINS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%) Culture; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: South Orange Performing Arts Center (NJ)

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) South Orange (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



693 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Hopewell Threatened By Overdevelopment

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Hopewell is rightly proud of our efforts to protect open space and fight sprawl (''Holding Back the McMansions,'' editorial, Oct. 15). But your editorial did not mention that these efforts are threatened by a measure on the local ballot this year. 
 Hopewell Township ballot question No. 1 would cut the open space fund in half at a time when the price of purchasing open space around here is higher than ever. Not only would this measure threaten forests, farms, water and wildlife, but it could have the unintended consequence of leading to even higher property taxes.
More development of our unprotected farms and forests would eventually require more school construction, roads, fire and police, and other expensive services. These services would cost a lot more than any new revenue generated by the development. The township government commissioned a fiscal impact study from an economist at the University of Pennsylvania that concluded just that.
 In contrast, purchasing undeveloped land to protect open space and preserve farms is often the most cost-effective action that towns can take to keep property taxes from spiraling even further out of control.

Jim Waltman
Executive Director, Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association
Hopewell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); REFERENDUMS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); BALLOTS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Area Planning and Renewal; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

PERSON: Jim Waltman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%) Hopewell (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



694 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of New Jersey

Lakewood Senate Community and Urban Affairs Committee. Monday at 4:30 p.m. Lakewood Municipal Building, 231 Third Street. (800) 792-8630.

Trenton Department of Education Board of Review. Friday at 1 p.m. Department of Education, 100 Riverview Plaza. (609) 777-0547.

Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Public School Funding Reform. Tuesday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.

Bergen County

Englewood City Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Municipal Court, South Van Brunt Street. (201) 871-6612.

Fort Lee Planning Board. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Fort Lee City Hall, 309 Main Street. (201) 592-3727.

Essex County

Belleville Free mammogram, Pap smear, breast examination and colon screening Appointment required. Friday. Belleville Town Hall, 152 Washington Avenue. (973) 450-3395.

Glen Ridge Historic Preservation Commission. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Borough of Glen Ridge Municipal Building, 825 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 748-8400.

Montclair Township Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. 205 Claremont Avenue. (973) 509-4928.

Hudson County

Bayonne Environmental Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (201) 858-6000.

Bayonne Local Redevelopment Authority. Thursday at 6 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (201) 823-0333.

Bayonne Insurance Commission. Wednesday at 3 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (201) 858-6000.

Jersey City Planning Board. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. County Annex Building, 567 Pavonia Avenue. (201) 547-5010.

Hunterdon County

Newton Construction Board of Appeals. Thursday at 1 p.m. Sussex County Administrative Center, 1 Spring Street. (973) 579-0430.

Mercer County

Princeton Planning Board. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-5366.

Princeton Shade Tree Commission. Thursday at 5:30 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 921-1359.

Middlesex County

Edison Zoning Board. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Edison Municipal Building, 100 Municipal Boulevard. (732) 248-7249.

Monmouth County

Hartford Village Council. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 550 Main Street. (732) 531-4740.

Howell Planning Board. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Administration Building, 251 Preventorium Road. (732) 938-4500, ext. 2340.

Middletown Planning Board. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Middletown Town Hall, 1 Kings Highway. (732) 615-2098.

Morris County

Morristown Planning Board. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. 30 Schuyler Place. (973) 829-8120.

Ocean County

Toms River Planning Board. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Planning, Roads and Engineering Annex, 129 Hooper Avenue. (732) 929-2054.

Passaic County

Clifton Environmental Protection Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Clifton City Hall, 900 Clifton Avenue. (973) 470-2237.

Clifton City Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Clifton City Hall, 900 Clifton Avenue. (973) 470-2237.

Wayne Township Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Wayne Town Hall, 475 Valley Road. (973) 694-1800.

Union County

Elizabeth Extended hours for absentee voters. Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Union County Courthouse, 2 Broad Street. (908) 527-4996.

Warren County

Franklinville Land Use Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Franklin Township Municipal Building, 1571 Delsea Drive. (908) 689-3994, ext. 13.

Great Meadows Township Committee. Thursday at 7 p.m. Liberty Township Municipal Building, 349 Mountain Lake Road. (908) 637-8356.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ZONING (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (71%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (66%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



695 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Pick Your Poison

BYLINE: By Bobbie Ann Mason. 
Bobbie Ann Mason is a writer in residence at the University of Kentucky and the author, most recently, of ''Nancy Culpepper,'' a collection of stories.

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky. 

 BODY:
ONE day last summer I was shopping at a natural-foods supermarket. Outside it was 100 degrees or so, but inside it was arctic. The cashier told me she was cold, but the staff wasn't allowed to change the temperature. This sounded familiar. Last winter a friend who was in a sweltering computer chain store asked why the workers didn't turn the heat down. He was told that the thermostat was in Houston.
 In Kentucky we're used to remote control. Historically, outsiders have dominated the place like a kudzu invasion. Many of the coal mines are owned by huge out-of-state companies. The coal and the profits depart, leaving behind ravaged land and poisoned streams, soil and air. In 2000, 300 million gallons of sludge spilled from a coal slurry pond in Martin County, a greater toxic accident than the Exxon Valdez oil disaster. You might not remember that, because Kentucky seems out of sight, out of mind -- a good place to toss trash. 
 For example, consider our weapons-of-mass-destruction site, the Blue Grass Army Depot in Richmond, where a stockpile of chemical weapons has been languishing since World War II. At least 55,000 rockets, with 523 tons of chemical weapons, are stored in shabby igloos. How to dispose of toxins like mustard gas and sarin has been a debate for decades. And the stuff is prone to pesky leaks. But at last Kentucky is getting a $2 billion federal plant that will neutralize the weapons by separating the chemicals and washing them in water. It's a pilot plant, to find out if this process will really work.
 Local leaders insist on local hiring so the community can benefit economically. So the government contractor plans to recruit teenagers at high schools, vo-tech schools, even church groups, to train them for careers in working safely with weapons of mass destruction. One procedure will involve cutting the heads off chemical-filled rockets with something like a pipe cutter. 
 Then there are the leftover contaminants from the cold war. The Paducah uranium-enrichment plant has been cleaning up its old piles of radioactive uranium, tritium, plutonium and what-have-you, and now it has a chance of opening a major recycling plant for nuclear waste from all over the globe. It would treat spent fuel rods from nuclear reactors in order to salvage the residue of radioactive uranium and plutonium for use in power plants.
 As part of the Bush initiative to recycle nuclear waste, the contaminated byproducts would come (by flatcar? 18-wheeler? FedEx?) into our state. Importing deadly radioactive stuff would be a boon for the community, creating up to 6,000 jobs, so you can't argue. Or can you?
 That's not all. Kentucky's politicians have also proposed building a $451 million lab for the study of pathogens that might be unleashed in a bioterrorism attack (ebola, anthrax). Before the boom in weapons of mass destruction, Kentucky's economy depended on its land. But with farms disappearing, country life is becoming a memory. 
 To preserve the idea of Kentucky as a state of farms with a farm state of mind, we're getting a $24 million agriculture museum. I imagine a pretend working farm with Civil War re-enactors playing old-timey farmers. 
 In rural Kentucky, where the health of the land once meant plowing manure under the soil each spring, the future is not in cows and corn. We're now poised to take on the burden of the world's poisons. Y'all come!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); OIL SPILLS (88%); NUCLEAR WASTE (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POWER PLANTS (75%); COAL MINING (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (75%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); COLD WAR (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (72%); TRAINS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); ARMIES (69%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (63%); RELIGION (50%) Biological and Chemical Warfare; Nuclear Wastes

PERSON: Bobbie Ann Mason; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



696 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: For a World of Woes, We Blame Cookie Monsters 

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
FIRST we said they were ruining their health with their bad habit, and they should just quit. 
 Then we said they were repulsive and we didn't want to be around them. Then we said they were costing us loads of money -- maybe they should pay extra taxes. Other Americans, after all, do not share their dissolute ways.
 Cigarette smokers? No, the obese. 
 Last week the list of ills attributable to obesity grew: fat people cause global warming.
 This latest contribution to the obesity debate comes in an article by Sheldon H. Jacobson of the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana and his doctoral student, Laura McLay. Their paper, published in the current issue of The Engineering Economist, calculates how much extra gasoline is used to transport Americans now that they have grown fatter. The answer, they said, is a billion gallons a year.
 Their conclusion is in the same vein as a letter published last year in The American Journal of Public Health. Its authors, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, did a sort of back-of-the-envelope calculation of how much extra fuel airlines spend hauling around fatter Americans. The answer, they wrote, based on the extra 10 pounds the average American gained in the 1990's, is 350 million gallons, which means an extra 3.8 million tons of carbon dioxide.
 ''People are out scouring the landscape for things that make obese people look bad,'' said Kelly Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale.
 And is that a bad thing? Dr. Jacobson doesn't think so. ''We felt that beyond public health, being overweight has many other socioeconomic implications,'' he said, which was why he was drawn to calculating the gasoline costs of added weight.
 The idea of using economic incentives to help people shed pounds comes up in the periodic calls for taxes on junk food. Martin B. Schmidt, an economist at the College of William and Mary, suggests a tax on food bought at drive-through windows. Describing his theory in a recent Op-Ed article in The New York Times, Dr. Schmidt said people would expend more calories if they had to get out of their cars to pick up their food. 
 ''We tax cigarettes in part because of their health cost,'' he wrote. ''Similarly, the individual's decision to lead a sedentary lifestyle will end up costing taxpayers.'' 
 Eric Oliver, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, said his first instinct was to laugh at the gas and drive-through arguments. But such claims often get wide attention, he says, and take on a life of their own.
 ''This is like, let's find another reason to scapegoat fat people,'' Dr. Oliver says. 
 At an annual meeting of the Obesity Society, one talk correlated obesity with deaths in car accidents, and another correlated obesity with suicides. Dr. Oliver, who attended, said no one in the crowd of at least 200 questioned whether the correlations were really cause and effect. ''The funny thing was that everyone took it seriously,'' he said.
 Katherine Flegal of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also wryly cautions against being quick to link cause and effect. ''Yes, obesity is to blame for all the evils of modern life, except somehow, weirdly, it is not killing people enough,'' she said. ''In fact that's why there are all these fat people around. They just won't die.''
 The message in the blame-obesity approach, said James Marone, a political science professor at Brown University, is that it is so important to persuade fat people to lose weight that common sense disappears.
 ''Anything we can say to persuade you, we will say,'' Dr. Marone added.
 So is it working? 
 It doesn't seem to be. Fat people are more reviled than ever, researchers find, even as more people become fat. When smokers and heavy drinkers turned pariah, rates of smoking and drinking went down. Won't fat people, in time, follow suit?
 Research suggests that the stigma of being fat leads to more eating, not less. And if reducing the stigma suggests a solution, that's not working either. 
 ''One hypothesis about getting rid of stigma is having more contact with the stigmatized group,'' Dr. Brownell says. But with obesity, the stigma seems to be growing along with the national girth. 
 He cites a famous study in the 1960's in which children were shown drawings of children with and without disabilities, as well as a drawing of a fat child. Who, they were asked, would you want for your friend? The fat child was picked last.
 Now, three researchers have repeated the study, this time with college students. Once again, almost no one, not even fat people, liked the fat person. ''Obesity was highly stigmatized,'' wrote the researchers, Janet D. Latner of the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, Albert J. Stunkard of the University of Pennsylvania and C. Terence Wilson of Rutgers University, in the July 2005 issue of Obesity Research.
 One problem with blaming people for being fat, obesity researchers say, is that getting thin is not like quitting smoking. People struggle to stop smoking, but many, in the end, succeed. Obesity is different. It's not that the obese don't care. Instead, as science has shown over and over, they have limited personal control over their weight. Genes play a significant role, the science says.
 That is not a popular message, Dr. Brownell says. And the notion that anyone can be thin with a little effort has consequences. ''Once weight is due to a personal failing, a lot of things follow,'' he said. There's the attitude that if you are fat, you deserve to be stigmatized. Maybe it will motivate you to lose weight. The opposite happens.
 In a paper published Oct. 10 in Obesity, Dr. Brownell and his colleagues studied more than 3,000 fat people, asking them about their experiences of stigmatization and discrimination and how they responded. 
 Almost everyone said they ate more.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a tendency to blame obesity for a range of problems misattributed the journal that published a letter about how much extra fuel airlines use carrying fatter Americans. It was the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, not The American Journal of Public Health. The article also misspelled the name of a Brown University political science professor who commented that the intent of such studies is to persuade the obese to lose weight. He is James Morone, not Marone.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ron Barrett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); OBESITY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SMOKING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (74%); GASOLINE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); DIETING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%) Weight; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Genetics and Heredity; Discrimination; Research; Weight

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%) Engineering Economist (Journal)

PERSON: Gina Kolata; Sheldon H (Prof) Jacobson; Laura McLay

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



697 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: HOME ECONOMICS

 BODY:
Unemployment's down, inflation is inconsistent, the housing market is finally cooling off and consumer confidence blows with the wind. Just how are Americans doing? The Op-Ed page asked four writers from around the country to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their fourth round of dispatches. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editors' Note

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



698 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: On the Rio Grande, the World's a Stage

BYLINE: By Pam Houston. 
Pam Houston is the author, most recently, of ''Sight Hound.''

DATELINE: CREEDE, Colo. 

 BODY:
IT'S late October along the upper Rio Grande as it winds its way through Mineral County, Colo., one of the least densely populated counties in the United States. The aspen-forested hillsides have completed September's tequila sunrise colored display, the first snow has fallen up on the Garita range, and the summer homeowners have all returned to Texas. A few truckloads of elk hunters make their watchful way along the forest service roads by day, hunker down in the spruce at dawn and dusk, but in a few weeks they too will be gone, leaving the 952 locals to weather the high-altitude winter alone. 
 Only a handful of the three block's worth of businesses in Creede -- Mineral County's seat and only incorporated town -- stay open year round, among them the True Value Hardware, the Kentucky Belle Grocery and San Juan Sports, where two workers, Annie Butler and Alan Thomasson, are killing time playing poker on the counter with a tiny set of cards designed to be tucked into a backpack. 
Annie identifies herself as part-time retail associate, part-time actor, part-time wood stacker, part-time pet portraitist. ''You have to scramble to make a living,'' she says, ''be inventive.'' But T-shirts, she notes, gesturing around her, sell all year long.
 ''Sometimes we go all day, sometimes we go two days, without a single customer,'' Alan says. I ask why the owner keeps the store open year round and Alan says without hesitation, ''Because he pities us.''
 Paul Stone, a longtime Creede resident, was one of five finalists in the ''who gets to shoot Hunter Thompson's ashes out of a cannon'' competition. The front of his business card says ''Diversify and Conquer.'' On the back is a list of his talents for hire: ''custom avant-garde furniture with a dash of funk, furniture repairs (heirlooms included), custom chandeliers, fine woodwork and welding, props for film and theater, licensed fireworks displays, bowling ball cannon shoot for all occasions, and exotic dancing -- no weirdoes, please.'' 
 Thirty years ago, he put a $50 bid on five abandoned buildings, went in with a crowbar, and scavenged the materials to build his ramshackle house, which resembles a set designer's idea of a house more than an actual one. 
 The Creede Repertory Theater, which recently celebrated its 40th season, is the cultural, recreational and economic heart of Creede. Each May, the artistic director, Maurice LaMee, and four other year-round employees welcome 70 professional company members who produce nine plays on two stages. According to a study commissioned by the theater, Mineral County makes 70 percent of its living in four months of tourism, and 20 percent of that income -- more than $4 million -- is theater-related. In the six years since Mr. LaMee took over, the theater's budget has more than doubled. ''When the company is here there is an insane energy,'' he says. ''When it goes away it is both sad, and an enormous relief.'' 
 Unlike the hotel owners and the restaurateurs who work like mad during the summer and then take off for Mexico or Peru, Mr. LaMee spends his winter here, balancing the budget, choosing plays and hiring the following season's cast and crew. ''I have creative control,'' he says. ''I can run up the hill and be in the wilderness; I have a core group of people I love. But the cultural and intellectual isolation can be profound in the winter.''
 Doc Howard is Creede's beloved veterinarian. His clinic is tiny, with the distance between waiting room, examination table and operating theater better measured in inches than feet. For years he worked in Gallup, N.M., a five-hour drive from here, and came to Creede to treat animals on Fridays. He sold his Gallup practice, retired to Creede, and now treats large and small animals five mornings a week, not counting emergencies. In the movie version, he'd be played by Wilford Brimley. 
 All veterinarians look for ways to spread a seasonal income throughout the year, but in a tourist town the problem is exaggerated. February is the worst month, which Doc Howard tries to offset by scheduling vaccination or spay-and-neuter clinics.
 ''I'll extend credit to just about anybody,'' he says. ''If a guy brings in a dog with a broken leg that's going to cost a thousand bucks to fix and I make him pay up front, there's a good chance he's going to euthanize that dog. But if I say, give me a hundred bucks a month, I keep the dog alive, increase income and create good will in the community.'' 
 In a community with less than 1,000 residents, good will is what it is all about.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); FILM (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); SPORT HUNTING (71%); THEATER (67%); POKER (67%); VISUAL ARTS (65%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%) 

COMPANY: TRUE VALUE CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (56%); NAICS424950 PAINT, VARNISH & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC5083 FARM & GARDEN MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC5072 HARDWARE (56%)

PERSON: Pam Houston

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Creede (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



699 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Home Omaha

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling; Richard Dooling is a screenwriter and the author, most recently, of ''Bet Your Life.''

DATELINE: OMAHA 

 BODY:
HOUSING prices are falling on both coasts, and bubble panic is around the corner. The financial magazines are already grabbing their readers by the throat and taunting them with headlines like: ''U.S. Housing Crash Continues!'' ''Where Will Housing Prices Fall the Most?'' ''Is It Time to Cash Out?''
 What if it is time to cash out? Where do you go? If you sell on either coast, then you need to find real estate somewhere that the housing bubble missed. Guam? American Samoa? Wait, how about eastern Nebraska? Downright frothless when it comes to housing: the median home price here usually chugs along at the annual rate of inflation and never goes down (up 4 percent last year, up 22 percent over the last five years). 
Before you recoil in horror at the thought of living in Omaha, a city of 414,000 souls, consider that this year Money magazine ranked it seventh of the nation's 10 best big cities to live in, ahead of New York City, which ranked 10th. O.K., now you may recoil in horror.
 These compelling statistics have Nebraskans preparing for the imminent arrival of several million New York refugees (victims of post-traumatic bubble anxiety disorder), who will need emergency real estate and housing triage services. The accompanying chart gives some facts and figures for Manhattan condo owners contemplating the big move to the Big O.
 According to the cost of living comparison calculator at CNNMoney.com, if you were earning $229,000 in Manhattan, or $153,000 in Queens, you'll be able to maintain the same standard of living in Omaha with a salary of $100,000 (and not because rodeos are cheaper than Broadway shows). Your money will go farther, and you'll find less competition for jobs: Omaha's unemployment rate (3.3 percent) is lower than New York's (4.5 percent). While you are job hunting and living off your real-estate profits, groceries, utilities and health care will all cost roughly one-third less than you are paying in New York.
 According to the Tax Foundation, the move to Omaha will save only about 1 percent in taxes. New York has the second highest average state-and-local tax burden in the country (at 12.9 percent of income); Nebraska has the sixth highest (at 11.6 percent). Why so high here? In part because Nebraska's 1.7 million residents must pay for schools and roads spread out over 77,000 square miles, compared to more than 19 million New York State residents who occupy a mere 47,000 square miles. 
 Nebraskans also tolerate notoriously high property taxes because they go to the public schools, where rich and poor alike get a quality education. (A proposed state spending lid on the November ballot is widely expected to fail.) 
 So, why do people live in a state with high taxes, no mountains, no ocean beaches, no lakes to speak of, no major professional sports teams, no grand old museums or dazzling science centers? The three answers you hear most often from Nebraskans are: (1) quality of life; (2) good schools; (3) wouldn't moving be kind of a bother?
 Here are some other pros and cons to consider before cashing out and heading to flyover country.

Pros:
Big yard (no more dog walkers and poop bags).
 Big sky (makes you look up, and out).
 Traffic (cars move around, at or near the speed limit).
 Cornhusker football (fall Saturdays with the family in the bleachers).
 Friendly people (perfectly sane strangers say, ''Hi!'').
 Public schools (excellent, and ''free'').
 The local news (high school sports instead of murders).
 The Berkshire Hathaway convention (you don't have to fly in for it).

Cons:
Big yard (lawn maintenance can be noisier than street maintenance).
 Big sky (makes even a New Yorker feel small).
 Traffic (sidewalks are optional, no more walking to the corner deli).
 Cornhusker football (the morbidly obese fellow next to you is wearing a Go Big Red cowboy hat, red Sansabelt slacks and white shoes).
 Friendly people (who love to visit for hours).
 The local news (high school sports?). 
 The Berkshire Hathaway convention (you don't get to leave when it's over).

 Required reading: ''The Quality of Life Report,'' by Meghan Daum. In 1999, Ms. Daum moved from New York City to Lincoln, Neb., and wrote this hilarious novel. The heroine, Lucinda Trout, is a television journalist living in a rent-stabilized ''one-windowed cell'' at Broadway and 94th Street in Manhattan. 
 When the building changes hands, Lucinda's rent soars to $2,100 per month. She learns of an assignment in Prairie City, where she can rent an entire farmhouse (and a farm) for $400 a month. She takes the plunge. Unexpected pleasures ensue: ''Something about the blandness of the town and the flat land that surrounded it were making me feel alive and exotic. Almost like another person.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nora Krug)Chart:New York CityMedian home price (City): $895,000(Greater metro): $472,000(Food Emporium)1 gallon milk: $3.891 lb. Hamburger: $3.99 (81% lean)(Zabar's)Corncob holders: $2.94OmahaMedian home price (City): $142,000(Greater metro): $142,000(Hy-Vee)1 gallon milk: $2.781 lb. Hamburger: $2.87 (85% lean)(Wal-Mart)Corncob holders: $.94

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); LIVING STANDARDS (79%); COST OF LIVING (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); PROPERTY TAX (79%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (79%); HOUSING BUBBLE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STATISTICS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Richard Dooling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); OMAHA, NE, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); AMERICAN SAMOA (57%) New York City; Omaha (Neb)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



700 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Gains in Puerto Rico

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Puerto Rico, an Island in Distress'' (editorial, Oct. 23): 
 In a time of challenges, Puerto Rico is making the right decisions to move its economy forward and create better opportunities for our citizens. 
 To achieve long-term fiscal responsibility, our reform initiatives will cut wasteful spending, provide guaranteed funds for debt repayment, increase government agencies' efficiency and eliminate unnecessary government positions.
To create meaningful jobs for our ''home-grown talent,'' Puerto Rico is building a knowledge-based economy. Our labor force will not just manufacture products but also research, design, engineer and market them. 
 Puerto Rico, an established pharmaceutical industry hub, is becoming a worldwide biotechnology center known as Bio Island. Through public-private partnerships, we are building new research facilities for the next generation of bilingual scientists. 
 With strengthened education and training programs, we will ensure that Puerto Ricans are prepared for high-tech jobs and stay here to help grow our economy. 
 Through our unique commonwealth relationship with the United States, we are providing powerful benefits to corporations. With the support of the investment community and Puerto Rico's residents, we welcome the turning point and have marked a clear course ahead.

Anibal Acevedo-Vila
Governor
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
San Juan, P.R., Oct. 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US TERRITORIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (68%) 

PERSON: Anibal (Gov) Acevedo-Vila

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



701 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Big-Time College Sports May Be Due For an Audit

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
It was a five-star slumber party. By 7:30 p.m. Friday, Florida Gator players were wandering the hallways of the Sawgrass Marriott Resort and Spa with pillows tucked under their arms.
 They weren't wearing their pj's but identical blue warm-ups. They weren't painting each other's toenails, but, and this is unknown, the fellas might have indulged in an oxygen facial to polish up their game face.
 As it was, the lugs were lying on the floor of a hotel ballroom for a players-only movie, stretching out after feasting on endless silver platters of man food in the ballroom next door.
 It beats the dorm and Domino's. What's an expense budget when more than $1.2 million a season is dedicated to the team's travel? The University of Florida is located only 80 minutes from Alltel Stadium -- where the team held off Georgia, 21-14, in yesterday's annual border scrum -- but the Gators rode the extra mile a day before the game to relax a half-hour away in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. 
 The team effectively turned a school day into a spa day. 
 How does the luxurious splendor of high-end college football square with the purpose of higher education? 
 The Tax Man wants to know. In what amounts to a moral audit, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, recently sent a letter to the money-grab artists at the nonprofit N.C.A.A., asking it to justify its tax-exempt status with some barbed questions:
 With corporate sponsorships, lucrative TV deals and millionaire coaches with no academic duties, Thomas asked, ''What actions has the N.C.A.A. taken to retain a clear line of demarcation between major college sports and professional sports?''
 Given that federal taxpayers have no interest in which universities generate visibility and contributions through athletic success, Thomas asked, ''Why should the federal government subsidize the athletic activities of educational institutions when that subsidy is being used to help pay for escalating coaches' salaries, costly chartered travel and state-of-the-art athletic facilities?''
 With Texas, the defending Division I-A football champion, graduating 29 percent of its players compared with 74 percent of the university's student body for the class that entered in 1998, Thomas asked, ''How well is the N.C.A.A. accomplishing its tax-exempt purpose of maintaining the athlete as an integral part of the student body?''
 The N.C.A.A. added an extra football game to the schedule and lengthened the basketball season, so Thomas asked, ''How do these proposals help athletes improve academic performance?''
 Excellent questions. But what's the political point of frisking the N.C.A.A. for loaded pockets? 
 ''It is not an insignificant event,'' said the economist Andrew Zimbalist, author of ''The Bottom Line: Observations and Arguments on Sports Business.'' He added, ''Although these politicians are grandstanding in my view, I'd rather have them grandstanding than be silent.''
 Peacock politicians can be effective. Congress took the stage to shame Major League Baseball and scared it straight into the admission of a drug problem. And as the Ways and Means Committee probes America's nonprofit sector, it may hold the N.C.A.A. accountable to its unholy binge shopping.
 ''I think all of us in higher education -- the conferences, the N.C.A.A. -- we should be worried about this,'' said David Williams, a tax lawyer and vice chancellor at Vanderbilt, where administrators have successfully folded athletics back into education. ''The tax code is one of the largest pieces of social legislation. You can encourage and discourage certain behaviors. 
 ''I believe the government is saying: 'You've been told time and time again to link athletics to higher education, and we're not seeing that. You're not able to control yourself.' ''
 It's a deep spiral on a post pattern to the bank. More than 10 Division I-A universities pay their football and basketball coaches a combined $3 million a year. At Texas, Mack Brown ($2.6 million) and Rick Barnes ($1.8 million) exceed $4 million. At Florida, it's enough to pay Urban Meyer ($2.1 million) and Billy Donovan ($1.6 million), but the Gators have also been on the hook for $2.6 million in severance payments. 
 ''The question is,'' Williams said, ''where is that money coming from?''
 The sugar daddies of college sports. Boosters receive up to an 80 percent tax deduction on gifts to the program. Every check writer -- from the Oklahoma State Santa T. Boone Pickens ($165 million) to the Tennessee benefactor Peyton Manning ($1 million) -- may be in line for an atta-boy from their accountants. 
 Peek inside the 990 tax forms at nonprofit booster clubs and you'll discover charity's payoff. At Florida State, not only did Seminole Booster Inc. raise $42 million in direct public support, according to its 2004 tax documents, but the president of the club was paid $228,184 in salary.
 Booster czars don't just hang up the signup sheets for tailgate casseroles, anymore. They oversee friends of the program who have penthouse tastes. Bull Gators -- the grand pooh-bah of Florida boosters -- can use their nonprofit devotion as a business perk by purchasing a luxury suite for $48,000 with the sweet bonus of air-conditioning at the Swamp.
 What's too much? Is it Texas spending $150 million for a stadium expansion? Is it Georgia pouring nearly $7 million into an academic center to prop up struggling athletes? It is the five-star hotel football players at the University of Colorado have been known to stay in the night before a home game? 
 The excess only serves to loot the soul of higher education. It's enough to make Congress suspicious. 
 ''I think Congress wants to know: Do you look more like a for-profit rather than a nonprofit?'' Williams said.
 Imagine the market correction if the free money disappeared for the N.C.A.A. That's not a pompom you hear, but the sound of the N.C.A.A. shaking. It has until Nov. 13 to respond to Thomas. So far, the N.C.A.A. has only offered a statement in its weak defense, ''The N.C.A.A. disagrees with the fundamental assertion that intercollegiate athletics is not part of higher education.''
 Just how is a team spa day part of higher education? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); BUDGETS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Finances; College Athletics; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (68%)

PERSON: Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



702 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Russia Was Leader in Arms Sales to Developing World in '05

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
Russia surpassed the United States in 2005 as the leader in weapons deals with the developing world, and its new agreements included selling $700 million in surface-to-air missiles to Iran and eight new aerial refueling tankers to China, according to a new Congressional study. 
 Those weapons deals were part of the highly competitive global arms bazaar in the developing world that grew to $30.2 billion in 2005, up from $26.4 billion in 2004. It is a market that the United States has regularly dominated. 
Russia's agreements with Iran are not the biggest part of its total sales -- India and China are its principal buyers. But the sales to improve Iran's air-defense system are particularly troubling to the United States because they would complicate the task of Pentagon planners should the president order airstrikes on Iran's nuclear weapons facilities.
 The Bush administration has vowed a diplomatic solution in dealing with Iran. But as United Nations diplomats argue over potential sanctions against Iran for its nuclear ambitions, Russian officials have expressed reluctance to vote for the most stringent economic sanctions, partly owing to Moscow's extensive trade relations with Tehran.
 Russia's weapons sales to China also worry Pentagon planners. Although China has joined the United States in partnership to press for a resumption of six-party talks to end North Korea's nuclear weapons program after its recent test, Taiwan remains a potential flash point between Beijing and Washington.
 Thus, China's ability to refuel its attack planes and bombers to enable them to fly farther from Chinese soil could require the United States Navy to operate even farther out to sea should the United States military be called to deal with a crisis in the Taiwan Strait. That would have an impact on the range and number of air missions of United States Navy aircraft launched from carriers.
 Details of the specific weapons deals in the global arms trade last year are included in an annual study by the Congressional Research Service that is considered the most thorough compilation of statistics available in an unclassified form. The report was delivered to members of Congress on Friday. 
 Among other arms transfers described in the study was a statistic that a single, unnamed nation -- but one identified separately by Pentagon and other administration officials to be North Korea -- shipped about 40 ballistic missiles to other nations in the four-year period ending in 2005, the only nation to have done so. Transfers of these weapons are prohibited under international agreements to control the trade of ballistic missiles.
 United Nations sanctions passed earlier this month after the North Korean nuclear test include a new and specific ban on trade or transport of ballistic missiles and missile parts to or from North Korea.
 The report, entitled ''Conventional Arms Transfers to Developing Nations,'' found that Russia's arms agreements with the developing world totaled $7 billion in 2005, an increase from its $5.4 billion in sales in 2004. That figure surpassed the United States' annual sales agreements to the developing world for the first time since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
 France ranked second in arms transfer agreements to developing nations, with $6.3 billion, and the United States was third, with $6.2 billion.
 The leading buyer in the developing world in 2005 was India, with $5.4 billion in weapons purchases, followed by Saudi Arabia with $3.4 billion and China with $2.8 billion.
 The total value of all arms sales deals worldwide, when counting both developing and developed nations, in 2005 was $44.2 billion.
 The Russian sales in 2005 included 29 of the SA-15 Gauntlet surface-to-air missile systems for Iran; Russia also signed deals to upgrade Iran's Su-24 bombers and MIG-29 fighter aircraft, as well as its T-72 battle tanks.
 ''For a period of time, in the mid-1990s, the Russian government agreed not to make new advanced weapons sales to the Iran government,'' wrote Richard F. Grimmett, author of the study by the Congressional Research Service, a division of the Library of Congress. ''That agreement has since been rescinded by Russia. As the U.S. focuses increasing attention on Iran's efforts to enhance its nuclear as well as conventional military capabilities, major arms transfers to Iran continue to be a matter of concern.''
 Russia also agreed in 2005 to sell China eight of the IL-78M aerial refueling tanker aircraft, according to the study.
 In 2005, the United States led in total arms transfer agreements, when deals to both developed and developing nations are combined. The total was $12.8 billion, down from $13.2 billion in 2004.
 The report charted no blockbuster military sales deals by the United States in 2005, and the total in many ways was reached by sales of spare parts for weapons purchased under previous contracts.
 France ranked second in total sales, with $7.9 billion, up from $2.2 billion in 2004. Russia was third when sales to developing and developed nations were combined, with $7.4 billion, up from $5.6 billion in 2004.
 The study uses figures in 2005 dollars, with amounts for previous years adjusted to account for inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); NAVIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); TERRORISM (64%); STATISTICS (60%) Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Arms Sales Abroad; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CHINA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (92%); IRAN (58%) Russia; India; China; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



703 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
National Edition

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Mountainside Condos, With Room Service and Linen 

BYLINE: By WENDY KNIGHT

 BODY:
AS a sports announcer for CBS who travels the world, Jim Nantz knows his way around a luxury hotel. So when it came time for him and his wife, Lorrie, to buy their first vacation home, a high-end resort made imminent sense.
 ''I've been conditioned for living in a hotel and getting great service,'' he said. ''I know what I want.'' And for a man who travels every week on business, that did not include home maintenance. ''I didn't want to worry about lawn care or pipes freezing.''
 The couple ''poked around a bit'' in Colorado, California and Utah, looking for a second home, but the St. Regis Deer Crest at the Deer Valley Ski Resort in Park City, Utah, ''stood out as something really special,'' he said.
 Condominiums have long been a staple at ski resorts, as have luxury hotels. What is new is a ''mixed-use concept'' of hotel rooms and condos, said John Scott, chief executive of Rosewood Hotels and Resorts, which is building such a project in Telluride, Colo. 
 Similar luxury hotel condo projects are sprouting up in mountain towns across North America, and not just in the obvious spots like Vail and Park City.
 A new mountainside development is under way in Stowe, Vt., a state known more for environmental ethics and low-key charm than for luxury projects. Stowe Mountain Lodge at Spruce Peak at Stowe has no hotel rooms. But of its 139 condominiums, three-bedrooms and studios, 105 can be made available as hotel-style rentals at the owners' discretion.
 The St. Regis Deer Crest will be managed by Starwood Hotels, which owns the St. Regis brand, and will include 26 large condominiums called private residences on the top four floors and 67 furnished condominiums that are designed to be rented as hotel rooms when not used by the owners. For example, a three-bedroom condo can be sectioned off into separate two-bedroom and one-bedroom units. The private residences are generally not rented out, according to a Deer Crest spokesman.
 The condos begin at $1.5 million for a 990- square foot unit; the private residences are larger (1,330 to 2,947 square feet) and range from $2.5 million to $8 million.
 Owners will have access to an array of features, including a 17,000-square-foot spa, split-level outdoor pool and a ski ''beach'' -- an outdoor heated patio adjacent to the pool where residents can watch their active brethren swoosh down the mountain.
 Last fall, 25 units were offered in a first lottery (since then another 11 have been offered and sold). Mr. Nantz drew the first pick. He and his wife selected one of the private residences -- a four-bedroom end unit with two fireplaces, an open floor plan and ''spectacular views on all sides.''
 Mr. Nantz worked as an anchor for a local CBS affiliate in Salt Lake City fresh out of college in the mid-1980's, so he also had emotional ties to the area, he said.
 The Nantzes represent a growing number of baby boomers who are choosing to live in hotel condominiums. While many of these projects are new, the buyers are familiar with the brands.
 Earlier this year, Rosewood Hotels and Resorts and the Honigman Group teamed up to plan a new hotel-residence project in Telluride. The project, the Rosewood Telluride, will have 75 hotel rooms and 65 to 70 residential units ranging from 2,000 to 5,500 square feet, said Aaron B. Honigman, the owner of the development. With final approvals from the Telluride Town Council not yet secured, sale prices have not been established, Mr. Honigman said.
 Rosewood Telluride is the first development property of its kind in Telluride. It is also the first new hotel condo project that Rosewood will manage in a mountain town. (It owns the Acqualina, a hotel-condo property in Miami.)
 Buyers and sellers say there is clearly one thing fueling the market: demand for the concierge services not available in traditional condos.
 ''Everything is here,'' said Michael Cohen, a Seattle physician who, with his wife, Suzanne, bought a three-bedroom, 2,500- square-foot condo at the Four Seasons Whistler in Whistler, British Columbia, in 2005. ''We can order room service. We can have housekeeping every day if we want. It's like being in a hotel, but it's ours.''
 Mr. Honigman said: ''Not everyone wants a 12,000-square-foot ski house. They want service. They don't want hassles.''
 Dr. Cohen also owns a home in Hawaii with his wife. ''We didn't want to worry about the silverware and linens,'' he said. ''Here, they furnish it and decorate it. They do everything.''
 After buying the condo in August 2005, the couple made $35,000 worth of investments to the property -- changing lighting, artwork and some furnishings -- before they moved in. The Four Seasons ''completed the work in six weeks,'' he noted.
 Buyers of hotel condos are a well-traveled group who frequently decide to buy a second home after an initial vacation stay. Consequently, the brand is critical.
 ''Our buyers and hotel guests are discerning,'' said Stanley R. Castleton, founder and chief executive of DDRM Greatplace L.L.C., which is developing the St. Regis Deer Crest. ''They're willing to pay a premium for service, and we're certainly experienced at providing that.''
 Years ago, people bought one single-family vacation home that they visited again and again. These days, the trend is to collect vacation homes, according to Jerry Landeck, a senior partner with Gencom Group, which developed and owns the Ritz-Carlton Bachelor Gulch resort in Avon, Colo., so they want the ''hassle-free ownership made possible by a luxury property.''
 ''People know what to expect from a Ritz,'' he said.
 Owners of the residential and hotel suites at Bachelor Gulch, which is near Vail, have access to the hotel's spa, ski valet services and private golf courses. They also receive a 30 percent discount on hotel stays at any Ritz-Carlton property.
 The Ritz-Carlton built 23 penthouse condos at Bachelor Gulch four years ago. Now, it is converting half of the existing 50 hotel suites into residential units because of the high demand. The 850- to 1,350-square-foot units are priced at $700,000 to $2.5 million; half will be completed this December and the rest by next June.
 Because many of these projects are new, it is too early to tell whether they will appreciate, but developers say they expect healthy resale values. The penthouse condos at Bachelor Gulch are reselling at a 50 percent premium compared with other condos in the surrounding area, Mr. Landeck said.
 From a developer's perspective, a residential unit ''enhances the economics of the project,'' said Mr. Scott of Rosewood. Because of the challenging topography, labor shortage and rising price of raw materials, building on a mountain is costly -- $1,800 to $2,400 a square foot, according to developers.
 Hotel condo projects are comparatively costlier, whether on a mountainside or beach, representing a 25 to 50 percent increase over straight hotel projects. But the condos bring in valuable revenue that offsets the extra costs. And once a project is completed, there is ''virtually no risk for the management company,'' Mr. Scott said.
 Hotel condo projects appear to be an ideal strategy for people looking to buy second homes to be used in certain seasons. ''It's about as painless a way to own property in a remote destination that you plan to visit on a limited basis,'' Mr. Scott said.
 It is a strategy that economically benefits the developer and hotel operator as well. But there is one group potentially left out of the equation: tourists. A tension exists between the developer of the project and local officials who have a vested interest in increasing the number of ''hot beds'' in town-- the number of hotel beds available to visitors, according to Mr. Scott.
 ''The city of Telluride required a pure hotel component for the project,'' explained Mr. Scott. ''They wanted more beds in the mix, and we wanted more condos.'' The two sides settled at nearly an even split.
 Mr. Honigman also thinks the marriage of spacious condos with the brand of a luxury resort is profitable one. A real estate investor with 20 years' experience developing town houses and single-family in Utah and Colorado, he noticed ''properties tied to a luxury resort were doing better.''
 Despite the cachet of a luxury brand, the most powerful lure of these properties is the one amenity only Mother Nature can provide. Before buying his condo, Mr. Nantz walked up to the building site to see the views. Perched on the side of a ridge, the spot overlooks the entire Deer Valley Ski Resort to the west and the Uinta Mountains in the eastern horizon.
 ''For a man who makes his living with words,'' he said, ''the views left me almost speechless.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LUXURY ON THE SLOPES -- The snowy panorama from the planned Rosewood Telluride hotel-residence development in Colorado. The Ritz-Carlton Bachelor Gulch resort in Avon, Colo., at right, has converted many of its hotel suites into residences. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 ALL INCLUDED -- The living room of a suite at the Four Seasons Whistler in Whistler, British Columbia, above, and the nearby village of Whistler. The owner of a suite has services not available to the owner of a traditional ski house. (Photographs by Bonny Makarewicz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROSEWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006



704 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Editors' Note; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words

 BODY:
An article in Real Estate on Oct. 15 featured homes in the Pacific Northwest that were constructed with environmentally sensitive building methods and materials. The article reported that the United States Building Council had begun a national certification program for these ''green'' houses, and quoted Tom Kelly, a Portland builder whose home was the first in the West to receive certification. 
After the article appeared, a reader alerted The Times that Mr. Kelly had made financial contributions to a nonprofit organization in Seattle for which the writer of The Times article, a freelancer, had worked. The group, Sightline Institute, which promotes a sustainable economy in the Pacific Northwest, had hired the freelance writer to help with editing and writing projects.
 The writer did not list her work at Sightline when she filled out a contract that The Times requires of all freelancers. She later told The Times that she had not been aware of Mr. Kelly's connection to Sightline when she quoted him in the article. Had Times editors been aware of her association with Sightline, they would not have given her the assignment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editors' Note

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WRITERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WEST USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



705 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 29, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	2		1	ECHO PARK, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) The Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch returns to an old unsolved case with unexpected results.		 	 	 	3		1	ACT OF TREASON, by Vince Flynn. (Atria, $25.95.) The C.I.A. operative Mitch Rapp makes surprising discoveries when he investigates an attack on a Democratic presidential candidate's motorcade.		 	 	 	4	2	2	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 	5	3	2	MOTOR MOUTH, by Janet Evanovich. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Alexandra Barnaby, known as Barney; her boyfriend, a Nascar driver; and his St. Bernard inadvertently become involved in a murder investigation as they investigate a possible cheating scandal.		 	 	 	6		1	SHORT STRAW, by Stuart Woods. (Putnam, $25.95.) A Santa Fe trial lawyer must fight against an attack on his practice and his reputation.		 	 	 	7	7	3	THE ROAD, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) A father and son journey through post-apocalypse America.		 	 	 	8	5	5	THE THIRTEENTH TALE, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 	9	6	3	UNDER ORDERS, by Dick Francis. (Putnam, $25.95.) Sid Halley, a jockey turned P.I., investigates the murder of a jockey who may have been throwing races.		 	 	 	10	4	6	THE BOOK OF FATE, by Brad Meltzer. (Warner, $25.99.) The apparent murder of a presidential aide reveals Masonic secrets in Washington and a 200-year-old code invented by Thomas Jefferson.		 	 	 	11	8	2	STRANGE CANDY, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Berkley, $23.95.) Fourteen dark stories from the author of the ''Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter'' series.		 	 	 	12	15	2	CHRISTMAS LETTERS, by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $16.95.) It's Christmas on Blossom Street in Seattle, and a child psychologist and a writer fall in love despite their differences.		 	 	 	13	9	7	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two New York sisters, one the host of a popular morning television show and the other a social worker, in two very different New Yorks.		 	 	 	14	10	2	FINDING NOEL, by Richard Paul Evans. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) At Christmas, an unhappy young man helps a woman find her family; from the author of ''The Christmas Box.''		 	 	 	15	11	6	THE GUY NOT TAKEN, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $24.95.) Stories about women and relationships from the author of ''In Her Shoes.''		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	2	1	3	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	3	2	3	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	4	3	11	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	5	5	52	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	6	7	4	THE GREATEST STORY EVER SOLD, by Frank Rich. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) A Times columnist attacks the Bush administration's message management.		 	 	 	7	4	3	SAVING GRACES, by Elizabeth Edwards. (Broadway, $24.95.) A memoir by the wife of the vice presidential candidate John Edwards focuses on the election of 2004 and her subsequent struggle against breast cancer.		 	 	 	8		1	TOUGH CHOICES, by Carly Fiorina. (Portfolio, $24.95.) A memoir of Fiorina's six years as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard until she was forced out by the board of directors.		 	 	 	9		1	WAR ON THE MIDDLE CLASS, by Lou Dobbs. (Viking, $24.95.) The anchor of CNN's ''Lou Dobbs Tonight'' decries the outsourcing of jobs, the decline in health care standards and the widening income gap.		 	 	 	10	8	4	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	11	6	4	LETTER TO A CHRISTIAN NATION, by Sam Harris. (Knopf, $16.95.) The author of ''The End of Faith'' responds to Christians' arguments in defense of their beliefs.		 	 	 	12	14	2	BLOOD AND THUNDER, by Hampton Sides. (Doubleday, $26.95.) A history of the American conquest of the West, focused on Kit Carson's defeat of the Navajo.		 	 	 	13	9	80	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	14	15	2	THE BLIND SIDE, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) The evolving business of football, viewed through the rise of the left tackle Michael Oher.		 	 	 	15	10	3	U2 BY U2, by Bono, the Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. with Neil McCormick. (HarperCollins, $39.95.) Photographs, documents and extensive interviews with members of the legendary band.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Oct. 14, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestTHE ECHO MAKER, by Richard Powers. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) This novel's heroine tries to help her brother after a mysterious truck crash leaves him with a rare form of amnesia.
 THE CONSERVATIVE SOUL: How We Lost It, How to Get It Back, by Andrew Sullivan. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The noted conservative journalist and blogger argues that religious fundamentalism has both usurped his own movement and come to threaten the world.
 CHUTES AND LADDERS: Navigating the Low-Wage Labor Market, by Katherine S. Newman. (Russell Sage Foundation/Harvard University, $35.) A researcher finds that a surprising number of Harlem fast-food workers she surveyed in an earlier study have gone on to much better things. 
 FROST, by Thomas Bernhard. Translated by Michael Hofmann. (Knopf, $25.95.) In Bernhard's bleak 1963 debut novel, a medical student is sent to observe an eccentric painter. 
 BLOOD BROTHERS: Among the Soldiers of Ward 57, by Michael Weisskopf. (Holt, $25.) A reporter wounded in Iraq recounts his own struggle and those of other amputees to rebuild their lives.
 A HEDONIST IN THE CELLAR: Adventures in Wine, by Jay McInerney. (Knopf, $24.) A collection of McInerney's House & Garden wine columns. 
 MORAL MINORITY: Our Skeptical Founding Fathers, by Brooke Allen. (Ivan R. Dee, $24.95.) The thesis of this informative polemic is that the founders were deists, not devout Christians.
 BEAUTY JUNKIES: Inside Our $15 Billion Obsession With Cosmetic Surgery, by Alex Kuczynski. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Embedded in the investigation is a journalist's confessional memoir.
 BEHIND THE MASK, written and illustrated by Yangsook Choi. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16; ages 4 to 8.) A Korean-American boy makes unexpected discoveries on Halloween.
 THE THREE WITCHES, collected by Zora Neale Hurston. Adapted by Joyce Carol Thomas. Illustrated by Faith Ringgold. (HarperCollins, $15.99; ages 6 to 10.) Two resourceful children are treed by the witches in this old Southern folk tale. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (87%); TREASON (76%); SCANDALS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); NASCAR RACING (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



706 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: The Shrinking Safety Net

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt writes a weekly column on economics for The Times.

 BODY:
THE GREAT RISK SHIFT
 The Assault on American Jobs, Families, Health Care, and Retirement
 and How You Can Fight Back.
 By Jacob S. Hacker.
 240 pp. Oxford University Press. $26.
Jacob S. Hacker, a 35-year-old political science professor at Yale, has become something of an intellectual ''It boy'' in the Democratic Party over the last decade. In 1997, three years after graduating from Harvard College, he published a book analyzing the failure of the Clinton administration's health care plan. The problem, he wrote, was not that the plan was too left wing, but that it was a hodgepodge of ideas without many natural allies. Hacker then set about finishing his graduate dissertation -- on the history of the American welfare state -- before writing another book, this one with Paul Pierson, on the Republican rise to power. Although polling data showed that Americans were no more conservative than they had ever been, according to the book, Republicans had won control of all three branches of government by shrewdly packaging their positions and gaming the electoral system. 
 Taken as a whole, Hacker's work has argued for a muscular Democratic Party that can win elections and improve Americans' lives through the power of good ideas, rather than one that must triangulate its way into office. Versions of this argument began to move toward the party's mainstream during the 2004 primaries, when Howard Dean pronounced himself to be from ''the Democratic wing of the Democratic Party.'' With Joe Lieberman's defeat in this year's Connecticut senatorial primary, the movement won its first (albeit tentative) electoral victory.
 It is easy to see this intraparty fight as being one simply between the left and the center-left, since a good deal of traditional ideology is involved. But it is also about something more, a growing belief even among Democratic centrists that the economic changes of the last few decades and the Republican Party's shift to the right demand a new toughness. Merely splitting the difference with their opponents may produce neither smart policies nor winning strategies for the Democrats. Thus, the Democratic brain trust now includes a group of lapsed moderates, like J. Bradford DeLong, Paul Krugman and Joseph Stiglitz, who have come to exhibit the sort of ferocity that helped conservatives during their years in the wilderness. In a way, the comedy of Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert comes from the same place. It is very much Hacker's place, as well, and just in time for the agenda-setting phase of the 2008 campaign, he has delivered his most ambitious work yet.
 In ''The Great Risk Shift,'' he tells the story of the decline of economic security over the last 30 years. Each piece of the story -- the slow death of guaranteed pensions, the erosion of health benefits, the time crunch faced by two-income families, the rise of layoffs -- is familiar. But Hacker provides an overview, showing common causes and suggesting a solution that revolves around the simple idea of insurance. Just as groups of people, not individuals, bear the risks of hurricanes and car accidents, so should societies bear much of the cost of illness, old age and unexpected job loss. ''Over the last generation,'' he writes, ''we have witnessed a massive transfer of economic risk from broad structures of insurance, including those sponsored by the corporate sector as well as by government, onto the fragile balance sheets of American families.''
 The starting point for Hacker's story is the late 1970's, when global trade was starting to shock American companies out of a complacent prosperity. By the 80's, many companies claimed they could no longer afford to offer the guarantees they once had. Benefits like job security and health insurance began to wither, and with the philosophy of individualism on the rise, Ronald Reagan and subsequent politicians could stand aside without much fear of consequence. 
 Today, workers must compete for jobs in a ''spot market'' that resembles a trading floor, where their pay is determined by their skills and the economy's need for them at any given moment. As John F. Welch Jr., the chief executive of General Electric, wrote in an internal memo, ''If loyalty means that this company will ignore poor performance, then loyalty is off the table.'' In one nice example, Hacker notes that taxi drivers -- like those in the old sitcom -- once relied on cab companies for insurance and fuel and then split their take with the company. Today, they lease the taxis from the company, pay their own costs and, when they do not find enough fares on a given day, lose money.
 New risks like this exist in nearly every corner of the economy. Families are more vulnerable to a layoff, because many depend on two incomes and the loss of either can be devastating. The proportion of Americans without health insurance has risen almost 25 percent since the late 1980's. The security of pensions has been replaced by the false promise of 401(k) plans, which leave people exposed to some of their worst instincts, like forgetting to save or overinvesting in company stock. 
 Hacker summarizes the new insecurity with a statistic that has helped make his name in the last few years. From one year to the next, family incomes rise and fall twice as much as they did in the mid-1970's, on average. He refers to this measure as income volatility and points out that a company with volatile profits is far less attractive to stock-market investors than a stable one. In recent months, both John Edwards, the 2004 vice presidential candidate who seems to be preparing a liberal-leaning presidential campaign, and the centrist heavyweights at the Hamilton Project in Washington, like Robert E. Rubin, have promoted this idea of volatility.
 At times, ''The Great Risk Shift'' lapses into the kind of glass-half-emptyism that can cause Democrats to sound out of touch with a normally optimistic country. Hacker quotes one study that claims, ''With the possible exception of having a larger array of entertainment and other goods to purchase, members of Generation X appear to be worse off by every measure'' than their parents were at the same age. Yet some 40 pages later, he notes -- correctly -- that Americans live longer than ever and are healthier while alive. He also fails to grapple fully with some obvious criticisms of his ideas; the costs of expanded health care and of a ''Universal Insurance'' program, for instance, would be formidable. 
 But the book's biggest flaw is one of politics more than policy. There is little evidence that Hacker has spent much time speaking with the very people who have borne the effects of the changes he describes. Instead, he relies on anecdotes from newspapers, reports and a recent book on poverty, and they are flat in the retelling. 
 This shortcut matters because it helps explain why Hacker's side has been losing for so long. It still has not figured out how to talk to voters. It has not persuaded Americans, who generally expect to succeed, that they might be well served by more insurance. The antagonist throughout the ''Great Risk Shift'' is a cult of individualism that Hacker calls ''The Personal Responsibility Crusade.'' As Bill Clinton understood, however, Americans do not like to be on the opposite side of personal responsibility. This book doesn't move the newly muscular Democrats any closer to finding their happy warrior.
 But they are almost certain to get more chances to do so. The changes described by Hacker seem destined to continue, as companies that offer generous benefits, like General Motors and Ford, lose out to those that do not. The patchwork safety net created in the decades after World War II truly is shriveling, and there will be rewards for the party that comes up with a convincing solution. Hacker has done the Democrats a favor by developing a story and a catchphrase -- the great risk shift -- to describe the problem. Perhaps the next phase of his career will be devoted to finding solutions that can win elections.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Gus Powell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LITERATURE (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (56%); STEPHEN COLBERT (50%) David Leonhardt; Jacob S Hacker

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



707 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-29-06; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Geezery Rider

BYLINE: By Christopher Caldwell. 
Christopher Caldwell is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
George W. Bush was sending an economic message when he visited the Harley-Davidson motorcycle factory in York, Penn., in August. With its big foreign markets, Harley-Davidson is a rare American manufacturer that thrives on, rather than fears, free trade. But when the president donned a slightly ridiculous pair of wraparound sunglasses, mounted a Harley Softail Deluxe and revved it loudly, he was conveying something more personal. Motorcycles are a symbol of independence, youth and nonconformity -- to those who like them, that is. To those who don't, they are a symbol of aggression, immaturity and fecklessness. What made the president so sure that viewers would make the former link and not the latter? 
Perhaps he realizes that the symbolism of motorcycles, as we have known it roughly since ''Easy Rider'' in 1969, is changing. Supermarket magazines have long celebrated tough old codgers like Malcolm Forbes, or even middle-aged stars like George Clooney, who persist in this strenuous and virile habit well after their wild years are supposed to have passed. Older riders are presented as eccentrics in a lifestyle that is otherwise dominated by younger rebels and solitary bad boys. But statistics paint a different picture. In the last two decades, men (and a few women) in middle age have become the motorcycle market. Few of the Harley riders from the veterans group Rolling Thunder who clog the highways every Memorial Day can be much younger than 50, and yet, as bikers go, they aren't atypically old.
 Motorcycles are a symbol of youth that young people no longer particularly care for. In 1980, according to the Motorcycle Industry Council, half of riders were 24 or younger, and half of those were of high-school age. Nowadays not even 4 percent of bikers are under 18. Roughly half are over 40, and more than a quarter are over 50. For some brands of bike, the median age is particularly high: the typical Harley-Davidson buyer is 47. Civic-minded motorcycle associations, which two decades ago would have sounded as oxymoronic as nonsmoking barrooms, abound. There are biker churches, biker A.A. groups and various white-collar equivalents of gangs -- lawyers' groups and the like. At the Motorcycle Color Show in Japan in April, the body-paint division of the BASF corporation unveiled 100 new soft colors to appeal to what news releases called a ''sophisticated adult culture arising from the aging baby-boomer generation.'' The theme that organizers selected for the show? ''Maturecycle.''
 So who are these aging bikers, who symbolize not rebellion but sound trade policy? One view is that they're the same people who, as 20-somethings, tore up the road around 1978, and that natural selection has favored the more cautious among them. The real wild ones in their cohort have gone to prison or been incapacitated or killed in fiery wrecks, leaving a rump of bourgeois milquetoasts. Statistics on traffic fatalities make that hypothesis look questionable, however, because if there is one area in which older bikers stand out, it is recklessness. Back in 1981, when the Traffic Safety Center at the University of Southern California published its comprehensive report on the causes of motorcycle accidents, its conclusion that people in their teens and early 20's were vastly overrepresented in traffic accidents was so unsurprising as to merit little comment. But things have changed. Since bottoming out at just more than 2,000 deaths nationwide in 1997, motorcycle deaths have roughly doubled in the last decade, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, and older bikers account for the bulk of them. Only about 5 percent of the 3,888 biker deaths in 2004 were teenagers. Nearly half were riders over 40.
 Surely some of those killed were experienced motorcyclists hanging on a bit too long to something they used to be. But many were older novices who felt they had missed out on something and now sought to buy into it. Today plenty of products that used to be for young people have been remarketed to those who think (as the novelist Tom Robbins once put it) that ''it's never too late to have a happy childhood.'' In Britain, the Hornby model-train company reports that 75 percent of its sales are to adults, not children and teenagers. Stores for baseball-card collectors are decidedly grown-up places. Meanwhile something is driving younger riders away from motorcycles -- maybe the expense of big new 1,200-cc bikes, maybe the various picayune requirements for insurance and special licenses, mandated safety courses and inspections and helmets. It takes very few regulatory straws to break the camel's back of teenage demand.
 All advertising and classic-rock lyrics to the contrary, there is nothing ''youthful'' about motorcycles, only about motorcyclists at certain times and places. The idea that products embody certain spiritual properties is probably a sociological mirage of the baby boom. If the customer is always right, the generation that has the most customers will always get its way. By catering to the collective id of the generation that has the most people (and the most disposable income), motorcycle companies have chalked up spectacular successes. Sales of motorcycles have risen every year since 1993, and there are now almost 25 million bikers in the country. Business writers often marvel at Harley-Davidson's ability to hold onto the baby-boom market as it has aged, contrasting it with the considerably weaker performance of, say, Levi-Strauss. This, of course, is a bit unfair to Levi-Strauss. To keep wearing Levi's, you have to maintain the physique you had when you were 20, which is a tricky proposition. To keep riding a Harley, all you have to hang on to is the ideas you had when you were 20. Anyone can do that.

 The chart shows the median age of motorcycle owners. Source: Motorcycle Industry Council, 2005 Motorcycle Statistical Annaual (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Scott Olson
 Getty Images)Chart: ''LIFE CYCLE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SMOKING (67%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); VETERANS (65%) Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (95%); BASF CORP (62%)

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (95%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); GEORGE CLOONEY (79%) Christopher Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: YORK, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



708 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2512 words

HEADLINE: A New Place In the Sun

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL. 
SETH KUGEL is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
I WAKE up in my golden-yellow Oscar de la Renta-decorated, $650-a-night villa, throw off the 350-thread-count sheets, and pad over to open the balcony doors. In floods the Caribbean sunlight, nothing but a long-fronded palm and a patch of manicured grass between me and the sugary sand beach, which gives way to water a shade of aquamarine that I thought had existed only in Crayola boxes. It's as if I had woken up in a travel brochure or a Corona commercial. But really, it's just morning in Tortuga Bay, the new luxury resort on the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic. 
 My old friend Jon is also up, already fantasizing about his golf game on the Pete Dye-designed oceanfront course (and, yes, there's the seventh hole, jutting out into the sea just to my left). It's a significant change from his dusty jaunts through the public courses of eastern Massachusetts. 
 Meanwhile, I am preparing myself for the salt-scrubbing, Oriental-massaging experience of a $247 Energizing Day Package at the Six Senses Spa, the high-end Asian chain previously only available at destinations like Phuket and the Maldives, where it takes a $247 massage just to recover from your 20-plus hour flight. (Tortuga Bay is just a three-and-a-half-hour flight from John F. Kennedy Airport in New York). 
 But first, breakfast. Sure, just pressing ''2'' on our direct-to-butler cell phone would summon a feast to the aforementioned balcony, but we're guys who prefer the high-end gluttony of the breakfast buffet combined with made-to-order omelets and pancakes at the poolside Bamboo Restaurant. It's just a two-minute walk away. (Still, we take our golf cart.)
 Just another day in paradise.
 But great as Tortuga Bay might sound (and some service glitches over the course of our stay made me question just how great it was), this resort, with 50 suites in 15 villas, is just one of a number of high-end getaways that are beginning to call the Dominican Republic home. The Sanctuary Cap Cana, a boutique hotel with eight restaurants within a larger $500 million development, has a low-key opening scheduled for Feb. 1; before then, Jack Nicklaus will be flying in to open one of his Signature golf courses, with nine of the holes on the water. Farther up the east coast, through picturesque hills and small towns, the Sivory resort, with its 55 terra-cotta-colored suites built into jungle-worthy vegetation (lushness reduced near the suites to avoid bugs) -- some right on the beach with their own private plunge pools -- is gearing up for its first full winter season. 
 Time was the Dominican Republic was famous for its bargain getaways: $1,000 for a flight-included, all-inclusive resort where the food was passable, the drinks strong and the merengue music festive. (Actually, that time was only a year or two ago, and the bargains are still there.) But the country is increasingly becoming the five-star playground of the Caribbean, pulling in tourists that might otherwise have gone to Jamaica, Puerto Rico or St. Thomas and gearing up to give the glamour spots of Anguilla, St. Bart's and Turks and Caicos a run for their money.
 As the winter season approaches, the Dominican Republic has all but been anointed with ''it-destination'' status by celebrities, travel magazines and tour operators. It's estimated that four million people will visit the country this year. That's more than double the 1.9 million that came in 1996. And though Canadians and Europeans were the traditional visitors, Americans are fast taking over. 
 With thousands of pricey hotel rooms and luxury second homes planned for the next decade, and paparazzi-drawing celebrities like the Clintons, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Julio Iglesias, Vin Diesel and Brad Pitt popping in for work or play or both, this is only the beginning. The Roco Ki real estate venture will open the Westin Roco Ki Beach and Golf Resort in Punta Cana in winter 2007, and is planning at least seven high-end hotels, in a resort that gives a nod to the Taino Indians who lived on the island before Columbus arrived. (It financed an archaeological dig on its land before beginning construction and is considering opening a museum nearby with the findings.) It is also a residential community: there was $100 million in sales the day those homes went on the market in April 2005, according to Nick Tawil Fernandez, the chief executive officer. 
 Cap Cana has about 30,000 acres south of Tortuga Bay, and villas are on sale from $750,000; in addition to the Sanctuary Cap Cana, its marina, whose debut is this December, will eventually have 1,000 slips. And it's not just on the east coast that all this action is taking place: in Samana, the paradisiacal peninsula on the north coast visited by humpback whales, the Gran Bahia Principe chain is opening no less than four five-star hotels for the winter season. 
 And there is much near-virgin beach still being scoured: Fernando Rainieri, a former tourism secretary and the brother of the Punta Cana pioneer Frank Rainieri, is part of a group of Dominican investors that includes the wealthy Najri family, that bought some beachfront land in 1997 in Miches, the largely undeveloped area between the resorts of Samana and Punta Cana. They've recently been negotiating with a group of American and Canadian investors. (Howard Kerzner, whose company owns the Atlantis resort in the Bahamas and many others, recently died in a helicopter crash on his way to scout out land in the north.)
 How did a country that three decades ago few people considered a beach destination become such an A-list destination? 

BEACHES -- The hundreds of miles of sandy shore, much of it seemingly typecast for the role of Paradise, beats every other Caribbean nation but Cuba for length; especially on the east end, the fine white sand and turquoise waters match up for quality as well.

GOLF -- Fazio, Nicklaus, Dye, they've all been there, designed that. (There are more than 20 designer golf courses in use or planned.)

FLIGHTS -- With five international airports taking in more than a dozen daily nonstop flights from New York City and direct service being offered from an ever-increasing number of other American cities, it's easy to get there. A contributing factor: New York's enormous Dominican immigrant community flies back and forth regularly, creating year-round demand and thus increasing options.

THE COCOON EFFECT -- Tourism in the Dominican Republic has long been all-inclusive. And although many of the new high-end resorts are not, they do provide the same kind of get-away-from-it-all experience travelers in escape mode are often looking for.

POOR INFRASTRUCTURE -- The Dominican Republic's notoriously bad (and badly marked) roads, dysfunctional power grid and dubious water system had a hand in driving the all-inclusive culture by making it necessary for resort owners to provide a self-sustaining community and thus a huge disincentive to explore the otherwise culturally rich island, home to everything from merengue to Christopher Columbus's first settlement in the New World.

BASEBALL -- As Dominican baseball superstars like Pedro Martinez, Sammy Sosa, Manny Ramirez and Albert Pujols became household names in the United States over the last decade, their country of origin did too.

CELEBRITIES -- It's hard to imagine anyone who has brought more boldface names to the Dominican Republic than the designer Oscar de la Renta. To cite one prominent example, he got Hillary Clinton to visit Punta Cana in 1998, and she and Bill have been going back every since. Producing a Miss Universe, Amelia Vega, in 2003, didn't hurt either.

GOVERNMENT EFFORTS -- The government played a key role in providing tax breaks and other support for the first round of all-inclusive resorts that sprouted in the 1980's. These days, the secretary of tourism, Felix Jimenez, has a $30 million promotional budget, and through the public relations firm BVK has been blitzing New York and other cities with its Republic of Colors campaign.

TERRORISM AND ANTI-AMERICANISM -- The Dominican Republic doesn't have them -- or tsunamis -- making it an attractive substitute for those fearful of seeking luxury in Thailand, Indonesia, Egypt and the like. ''Dominicans are not anti-anything,'' said Ellis Perez, a vice president of Cap Cana and a former secretary of tourism. ''We are an open, simple people.''
 According to Mr. Jimenez, tourists spent $14 millon in the country in 1974; in 2005 his government placed the figure at $3.5 billion. In 1986 just over half a million people visited the country. In 1996, it was over 1.5 million. And beyond the four million expected this year, the secretary nonchalantly predicts five million for 2007. 
 The Dominican Republic already takes in more tourism dollars than any other country in Latin America except Mexico and Brazil, according to World Tourism Organization statistics. In the meantime, the importance of sugar, coffee, cocoa and tobacco to the economy has declined. ''Tourism has been the motor of the Dominican economy for the last 20 years,'' said Fernando Rainieri, the former tourism secretary and current investor in Miches. ''In 1980, nobody believed in it and no one wanted to invest in it.'' 
 The tourism industry in the Dominican Republic is focused these days on Punta Cana, which many have compared to Cancun. For better or for worse, the comparison makes sense: like Cancun, in the 1960's Punta Cana was not on the map. Then, in 1969, a young Frank Rainieri flew with a group of American investors over the isolated, lightly inhabited east coast of the country; by the early 70's the land was theirs. A 1972 law made investing in tourism a nearly tax-free endeavor, and the government backed the first beach resort, Playa Dorada, which opened on the north coast simultaneously with the Puerto Plata airport in 1980. 
 The next year Club Med opened in Punta Cana, followed closely by the Spanish hotel company Barcelo. The Punta Cana Airport, privately owned and operated by Mr. Rainieri and the Punta Cana Group, opened in 1985 and in 1988 the Puntacana Resort & Club opened. More followed, and through August of this year, according to official Central Bank statistics, 1.26 million foreigners not of Dominican origin (presumably tourists) entered the country through Punta Cana. That is nearly three times as many as flew into Santo Domingo, the capital and by far the country's biggest city. 
 The country has also been investing in infrastructure. There is the Tourist Boulevard between Punta Cana and Uvero Alto. Late last month, the Dominican president, Leonel Fernandez, was in Punta Cana to meet with hotel owners, and Frank Rainieri suggested they begin thinking about stretching the highway beyond Uvero Alto to Miches. (Which, coincidentally or not, is where his brother Fernando owns land). A highway from Santo Domingo to the beautiful Samana peninsula is supposed to be completed in 2008, and the airport at Samana, El Catey International Airport, is to open next month. Not coincidentally, the Gran Bahia Principe resort chain will open about a thousand luxury hotel rooms in the next two months, in four different complexes.
 With the high-end hordes bearing down upon them, though, hotel operators face a problem: quality of service. Tourism officials and hotel executives all seem to read from the same talking points: the Dominican people are the country's biggest asset, what with their warm hearts, friendly faces and big smiles. But hand-clapping, merengue-dancing Club Med smiles are one thing; boutique hotel ''Let me explain our pillow menu to you'' smiles quite another. 
 The flaws during my two days in Tortuga Bay made that all too clear.
 Sometimes, they were funny: a welcome letter left for Jon and me in our bedroom (with two separate beds, I hasten to point out), read, ''Mr. Kugel, thank you again for choosing us for your honeymoon vacation.'' But more often they were annoying. Repeated dial-2 calls to our butler to help us reduce the air-conditioning level from Arctic freeze to Caribbean cooldown produced fruitless advice; we would have shivered through two nights if the comforters Oscar de la Renta chose for us weren't so cozy. Jon got charged the outside guest rate for a round of golf ($50 extra) even though our butler had made the tee time and it had been confirmed with a letter from management. (And some things even the best of service couldn't have helped. That pristine view from our balcony covered up a secret: just beyond the shoreline, the precious sand gave way to a bottom so rocky and slippery as to make taking a dip genuinely unpleasant.)
 Haydee Palmieri, the vice president of hospitality and human resources at Punta Cana (and Frank Rainieri's wife), acknowledged the flaws in service, though she did point out that Leading Hotels of the World had approved their application in September, making them the second member from the Dominican Republic (along with the Paradisus Palma Real).
 Andre Gerondeau, executive vice president for Sol Melia, which owns the Paradisus, acknowledges that raising the level of service will take time. ''Anywhere in the world,'' he said, ''especially in Latin America, there is a huge gap between people that have resources and those who don't,'' which makes high-end service a problem. The Dominican Republic is quickly catching up, he said. But still, ''if someone has been to Bali, Seychelles, St. Bart's and then comes to the D.R.,'' he said, ''they will certainly see a difference. You need to connect with your team members. The overall perception of us versus them is a killer.'' 
 Will the Dominican Republic dominate the Caribbean for years to come? Puerto Rico is feeling the heat, having fallen behind it in tourism receipts, if not absolute numbers, in 2004, and is fighting back with a new Tourism and Transportation Strategic Plan. And the stress on beaches, golf, beaches and golf -- the themes that dominate the Web site, godominicanrepublic.com and its Republic of Colors campaign, may leave the country open to competition with places like Jamaica, whose advertising and Web site (visitjamaica.com) also stresses people, culture, art, music, food and ecotourism.
 This much is safe to say: The secretary of tourism's prediction of five million visitors in 2007 will very likely come true. Or there will be a lot of really expensive hotel rooms, villas and bungalows lying empty.

ALL-INCLUSIVE AND BEYOND
 The rates are for double occupancy in mid-January, including a 16 percent tax and 10 percent service charge. All in the Punta Cana area unless otherwise noted.
 Tortuga Bay, (888) 442-2262; puntacana.com. From $773 per night.
 Sivory Punta Cana, (809) 552-0500; sivorypuntacana.com. From $617 per night or $995 per night all-inclusive.
 Sanctuary Cap Cana, (809) 562-7555; capcana.com. Opening Feb. 1.; rooms from $347.
 Paradisus Palma Real, (866) 436-3542; paradisuspalmareal.com. From $471 per night, all inclusive.
 Gran Bahia Principe Cayo Levantado (in Samana), (866) 282-2442; bahia-principe.com. From $672 per night, all inclusive.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 29 about new resorts in the Dominican Republic misstated the designer of the golf course at Tortuga Bay, a new resort there. It was designed by P. B. Dye -- not by his father, the golfer and course designer Pete Dye.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Head down, follow through: Playing one of the 15 designer golf courses in the Dominican Republic.
A farmer with bananas to sell at a roadside stand
a motorized cowboy keeps the livestock moving on a main tourist road
Fernando Rainieri, a real estate investor and former tourism secretary, above a countryside with potential
the Sivory resort, poised for its first full winter season
treatment time at the Six Senses Spa, where $247 will get you a salt scrub and a massage.
 The palm-shaded villas at the Sivory resort at Punta Cana. (Photographs by Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pgs. 10, 11)Map of the Dominican Republic shows the surrounding area. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); GOLF (88%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (57%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (73%) Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MALDIVES (79%) Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



709 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Has Corporate America No Shame? Or No Memory?

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TRUTH be told, I had been wondering why Henry M. Paulson Jr., previously top dog at the Goldman Sachs Group -- already a power, already a wealthy man -- would have wanted to be Treasury secretary. After all, he couldn't stop the Bush administration from pushing for tax cuts when they definitely were not needed, could not affect the vast current account deficit, could not do much about income inequality or the vast chasm that exists between whites and blacks in earning power and wealth in this country.
 I am sure much of what motivated him was his wish to be a good citizen and to do the civic duty of a successful, capable man. But he might have also been moved by the wish to do some good for his old pals on Wall Street. This is what's going through my mind as I read about the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, an ''unofficial'' panel of concerned citizens; its creation in September was disclosed in an announcement featuring kind and encouraging words from the selfsame Mr. Paulson, in his role as the secretary of the Treasury. 
This committee, to be headed by a distinguished professor of law at Harvard -- no, not the noted anti-establishment law professor Duncan Kennedy, but Hal S. Scott -- will study whether securities regulation and litigation that actually protect shareholders are harming American ''competitiveness,'' which Mr. Paulson has said is an important issue for him. 
 There are big names on this commission: R. Glenn Hubbard, former chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers and now dean of the Columbia Business School, and John L. Thornton, chairman of the Brookings Institution and a former president of Goldman Sachs. (There it is again, the real government of the United States.) There are also heads of big financial firms, manufacturers, and -- now, this is a shock -- accounting firms. 
 They are going to study, among other issues, whether having private shareholder suits against corporations that defraud stockholders should really be allowed under Section 10b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; whether state attorneys general like Eliot Spitzer of New York, the best friend the American stockholder has had in at least 50 years, should be allowed to bring lawsuits against corporate defendants in securities cases; whether accounting firms should be held liable when they don't catch frauds of companies they are auditing; and whether corporate officers who have committed fraud are being treated too harshly under criminal laws.
 When I follow this subject, my mind goes back to three little things. First, I remember my beloved genius economics professor, C. Lowell Harriss, at Columbia, saying in 1963, ''When you say 'corporations' you should be thinking 'the widows and orphans who actually own the stock and the company.' ''
 Then I think of a bon mot by my late beloved dad, Herbert Stein, a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Richard M. Nixon and for many years a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. Many years ago, when I was to be an expert witness for Goldman, Sachs in a securities fraud case, I asked my father, ''Wouldn't this just make me a lackey of the exploiting class?'' To which my father said: ''Well, if you've got to be a lackey, you might as well do it for the exploiting class. They've got all the money.'' 
 (Pop said it as a joke and I didn't do it, but it sounds as if some folks behind ivy-covered walls got the message.)
 And, finally, I think of the exciting days of about 15 or so years ago when the nation was wracked by the savings-and-loan crisis and the Drexel-Milken junk-bond schemes. It turned out that the accounting firms had been derelict in catching the frauds, protecting the stockholders and protecting the nation's taxpayers, who eventually had to pay more than $100 billion to salvage the nation's savings and loans. 
 How did accountants respond? With sackcloth and ashes? Far from it. They hired huge lobbying firms, became major backers of the Republican Revolution of 1994 (a main goal of which was to protect accountants, for some odd reason -- yes, that was actually in the Contract With America), and got legislation passed making it far harder to sue accountants in fraud cases.
 Now, we have corporate America as flush with cash as flush can be. Corporate profits are setting records, by some measures, even as wages stagnate. The stock market, as measured by the Dow Jones industrial average, has been reaching record highs. Corporate executives are paid on a scale that would make a bank robber blush. 
 But what's this? There are also major corporate frauds: backdating of stock options, which is really just insider trading in a big, big way; undisclosed executive pay and ''gross ups'' for paying taxes; stupendous looting in the form of ''going private'' transactions where management buys assets from stockholders at below-market prices and becomes rich in the process; and many others. And there are straight-out accounting frauds in which major players actually go to the Graybar Hotel along with people who did their thieving with guns instead of computers.
 This, apparently, is just too darned much for the nabobs of American corporate life. To them, being terribly rich with other people's money apparently means never having to say you're sorry -- or even being responsible under law. And if the law says you're responsible, change the law, Jeeves.
 So, enlisting some of the biggest brains in the academic world, like John C. Coffee Jr. of Columbia Law School, a genuinely smart guy, they are going to work on proposals to lighten up (my phrase) on corporate misconduct. Basically, they are going to try to get private securities cases to be virtually closed down, in favor of having cases only from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 (This would be a bad joke. The S.E.C., for example, has taken almost no action on ''spring loading,'' a particularly nasty form of insider trading and something like backdating, as reported passionately in this newspaper by Floyd Norris. If the S.E.C. cannot see spring loading as worthy of censure, why even have the S.E.C.?) 
 They are going to try to shut down some future Eliot Spitzer, the only man in the country with the guts to take on even the most ornery Wall Street potentates. I shudder to think what else they are going to try to do.
 Don't get me wrong. Powerful people have studies that prove their points, and then they lobby Congress, federal regulators and state legislatures to get what they want. This is how the world works. This is called working the system, dealing with the world as it really is. But is it really right for prominent American executives, amid a host of scandals involving other executives looting their shareholders blind, to have the best and the brightest of academe and the Street lobbying for less accountability to shareholders? 
 Is there any higher goal at all for management than serving the stockholders openly and honestly? Is ''competitiveness'' even a meaningful word, compared with honesty and integrity in serving the owners of the company? What can ''competitive'' mean in this context? Would a hospital be more ''competitive'' if it didn't have to take care not to kill its patients when it operated on them?
 TOO many of our corporate chiefs are already paid too much. They already have too many layers insulating them from accountability to the law and to their stockholders. Our businesses are plenty competitive if you measure by profits -- and how else would we do it? (Long ago, we gave up doing it by how we treat workers, a scale on which we would be in a lot of trouble.)
 It's fine for corporate bosses to be lobbying to keep themselves at the trough. That's what we expect of them. But Mr. Paulson is sworn to represent all of the people, not just the powers that be on Wall Street. He is way, way too high up the pay scale to be their lackey.
 Maybe it's time for him to back off this committee and start thinking of a legacy that includes law, integrity and responsibility to more than just the chosen few of Wall Street and the corporate boardroom.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BONDS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); ACCOUNTING (88%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Suits and Litigation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department; Committee on Capital Markets Regulation

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%) Henry M Jr Paulson; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



710 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2014 words

HEADLINE: When Voters Speak 

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
PEOPLE stopped on the street and asked to give an opinion about the elections will do at least one of the following: They will shift their weight, cross their arms, look past the interviewer, look anxious, ask how long this is going to take, exchange knowing glances with a companion, hesitate about giving their name, use the word ''change,'' call themselves moderate, say something predictable, say something really interesting.
 Otherwise, it is hard to generalize about the political mood based on a random set of sidewalk interviews conducted earlier this month with about 45 voters in the Democratic-leaning Westchester Village of Tarrytown and the Republican-leaning Long Island community of Massapequa. But it seems fair to say that people are worried.
They are worried about their party's losing influence, or about the obligations that accompany their party's gaining influence; about the war in Iraq; about the economy, or terrorism or E. coli bacteria in the food supply. While they're at it, they mention the trade deficit, the budget deficit, immigration, health care insurance, the environment and excessive partisanship in Washington. They worry that, with all there is to worry about, the quality of candidates at every level -- national, state and local -- isn't better. 
 For the most part, people interviewed on the postcard-pretty Main Street of Tarrytown and on the no-frills concrete platform of the Massapequa train station seemed to be uniformly ready for something electorally big to happen.
 They seemed revved for a momentous presidential election year, though what they will get on Nov. 7 is an off-year slate of contests, in the State of New York, anyway, in which voters will decide a handful of what appear to be somewhat lopsided contests. 
 ''We have damaged our position in the world,'' said Jill Rose, a business owner in Tarrytown, looking beyond Tarrytown and New York, and the borders of the United States. ''Where do we go from here?''
 Ready and able to discourse about Sunnis and Shiites, people had to be coaxed to give opinions about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's first term, or about the record of her opponent, John Spencer, as the onetime mayor of Yonkers.
 Feelings about the Republican candidate for attorney general, Jeanine F. Pirro, were somewhat strong in Westchester County, where she was once the district attorney, but almost undetectable among the people of Massapequa.
 At another time, that women are prominent players in some big contests around here -- for United States senator, for state attorney general, for various seats in Congress -- might have been the drive train of the political narrative. But this year almost no one, at least in this sample, was raising the issue.
 ''Pirro. Is she the one with the husband problem?'' said Felix Coppola, a retired commodities trader from Massapequa, referring to a mishmash of troubles that at one point sent Mrs. Pirro's husband, Albert, to prison and, most recently, threatened Mrs. Pirro with allegations that she had considered wiretapping her husband's phones because she suspected he was having an affair.
 ''Yeah, I heard something about that,'' Mr. Coppola said, pausing, as if deciding something. ''I just wish this was a presidential year. I want to vote out Bush.''
 Mrs. Pirro is running against Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat and the son of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
 There is a race for governor, too, and an environmental bond proposition in Nassau County. At the time of these interviews, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, was seeking re-election in a race that became interesting only last week, after the State Ethics Commission found that he had illegally used state employees to chauffeur his wife. His Republican opponent, J. Christopher Callaghan, the former treasurer in upstate Saratoga County, is suddenly getting some attention.
 But even with all that, events in Washington have for months -- years, even -- been bending the course of public attention, like a dark star bending light.
 ''I haven't followed the state races much, though I feel a little sorry for Pirro, having her personal life dragged into the campaign,'' said Amy Kaufman, a children's book editor interviewed at an outdoor cafe in Tarrytown.
 A friend with her, Maureen Occhiogrosso, a former financial trader, said: ''I'm mainly focused on the situation with Congress. Will the Republicans survive the Congressional elections? Will the president be able to keep the war out of public view? The war is in the news all the time, but it's almost as if it's someone else's war.''
 The races for State Senate and Assembly, the Congressional races, the judicial campaigns and the elections for state comptroller and lieutenant governor are all in count-down mode, no doubt about it. Bonnie Raitt, the pop star, performed to a $75-a-ticket sell-out crowd at the Tarrytown Music Hall on Oct. 18 to raise money for the Democratic Congressional campaign of John Hall, a musician himself who is challenging the incumbent, Sue Kelly, a moderate Republican in the 19th District, which includes parts of Westchester and Dutchess Counties.
 At a debate on Oct. 17 between Representative Peter T. King, the Republican incumbent from Long Island, and his opponent, David Mejias, a Democratic Nassau County legislator, an overflow crowd of more than 300 jammed the doorways and stairwells leading to the basement auditorium of the Levittown library. It was standing room only for two hours.
 But on a train station platform or at an outdoor cafe, people, folding their arms, shifting their weight, seemed to be looking on the elections as if viewing it all on the Google Earth computer program.
 ''The war troubles me,'' said Peter Bock, 67, a retired airline pilot from Massapequa, waiting for the westbound train, its headlights already in view. ''I never agreed with it from the beginning. Now we have a big problem over there, and I just hope there's going to be a change in the party in power.''
 Mr. Coppola, the retired commodities trader, said he was going to vote again for Mr. King, a seven-term congressman, but not because Mr. King is a staunch supporter of the war in Iraq. ''I like him because he's really tough, not like Bush, who just claims to be tough,'' Mr. Coppola said.
 There is something poignant about the political opinions that lurk beneath the surface of most people's everyday lives. They are probably not most people's first thoughts in the morning or their last ones at night. They are usually secondary to feelings and opinions people have about (depending on the people) work, love, family, child-rearing, real estate investments and the merits of the National Basketball Association's age restrictions.
 But just ask. Like some strange larval creature that gets to act on its instincts only once a year, the inner voter emerges to show its mysteriously patterned wings.
 ''Of the whole bunch of them, in the whole country, I tell you, Spitzer is the only one I like,'' said Nancy Petrillo of the Bronx, who works as an executive assistant in Tarrytown and who was eating lunch outside. ''Him and Kerrey. Not John Kerry. The other one, Bob Kerrey, the president of the New School. He knows what life is about.'' Mr. Kerrey, the former governor and senator from Nebraska, and now president of the New School, is not running for anything.
 The name Spitzer would be a reference to the governor's race. In that contest, the current attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, is running against a former state assemblyman, John Faso, a Republican who lives in Kinderhook. Without prompting, few people mentioned either man.
 But once asked, people generally said that they would vote for Mr. Spitzer and that they did not know very much about Mr. Faso.
 To take this sort of dipstick of voter interest is to get a hint of how hard it must be to grab voters' attention, vying as candidates do with the constellation of fame and hugeness that is the very air of Americans' consciousness.
 Local candidates, especially, are lucky if they are remembered for one thing (and unlucky if it's the wrong thing), no matter how long they have served in office.
 The same Republican state senator, Nick Spano, for example, had impressed and annoyed two of the people approached at random within the same hour on the same block in Tarrytown.
 He annoyed Nick Bruel, 40, by mailing an official-looking voter's guide that Mr. Bruel considered deceptive because it left out the name of Mr. Spano's Democratic opponent, Andrea Stewart-Cousins.
 Mr. Spano earned respect from Ms. Kaufman, the book editor, for his efforts to get grant money for the Tarrytown public schools.
 Every political office-seeker cares about every vote, of course. But in the case of Mr. Spano, it is caring of another order: Mr. Spano is running for the second time against Ms. Stewart-Cousins, a Westchester County legislator, whom he beat in 2004 by only 18 votes.
 Sometimes, respect and irritation can vie in the heart of a single voter for the same candidate. Clare Farmar of Tarrytown, a former Wall Street analyst, stopped outside a food store to explore her feelings about Mrs. Clinton.
 ''She's very competent, very accomplished, she has a lot of what it takes,'' Ms. Farmar said. ''But I think she's worked both sides of the fence on the war rather than trying to come up with a good solution. I disagree with her on a lot of things. But I'll probably vote for her.''
 Richard Shadock, 56, a Massapequa sheet-metal worker, entertains a similar interior dialogue on the subject of his congressman, Mr. King. He has voted for him each of the previous seven times that Mr. King has run and likes that Mr. King was elected by fellow committee members as chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security last year.
 ''He's a smart guy, he did an excellent job for us for a long time, and he's moving up the ladder of success, which is fine,'' Mr. Shadock said. ''But while he's devoting all this time to national issues, a working man has to win the Lotto to get medical insurance.'' 
 Mr. Shadock also complained about the amount of aid the school district receives, concluding: ''Who's taking care of these things? I can't vote for him again.''
 Apkar Omartian, a retired architect from Tarrytown, said he had not made his mind up about who would get his vote for anything this year. Frankly, he said, he is fed up with the failure of government at all levels to stop the influx of illegal immigrants and sick of the ''personal aggrandizement'' that motivates too many people in politics.
 ''The man in the street tries to do his best, and all he gets is higher taxes,'' Mr. Omartian said.
 So, to sum it all up:
 There are voters who are too worried about the big things to focus on the little things. There are voters who are too ticked off about the little things to trust their officials to handle the big things. In Massapequa, commuters mentioned taxes in the first exhalation of worry, followed by the war. The $100 million environmental bond proposal on the Nassau County ballot, which at a cost of $16 a household would preserve some of the last remaining open space in one of the nation's most densely populated suburbs, never came up.
 In Tarrytown, the order of worry was the war, the war, followed distantly by terrorism, environmental issues and overdevelopment along the Hudson River, where new homes are being built.
 ''It's time for a change,'' said Jack Arcate, 54, of Tarrytown, a Republican who said he would vote for a Democrat if only one of them would come up with an idea.
 Jeff Lattime, 42, of Massapequa, said: ''People feel squeezed. Prices and taxes keep going up, but people don't seem to be making a lot more.''
 Mr. Coppola of Massapequa said: ''These terrorists are screwing up our life. They're breaking down the American spirit. I wouldn't be surprised if they poisoned the spinach. You never know. The only optimists left are on Wall Street and Atlantic City.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Coppola acknowledged, he is a visitor to and patron of both those domains.


GRAPHIC: Photos: VOICES -- New Yorkers will have their say on Nov. 7. Westchester and Long Island voters who shared their opinions included, clockwise from top left, Clare Farmar of Tarrytown, a former Wall Street analyst
Jill Rose, a business owner in Tarrytown
Felix Coppola, a retired commodities trader from Massapequa
Richard Shadock, a Massapequa sheet-metal worker
Peter Bock, a retired airline pilot from Massapequa
Maureen Occhiogrosso, right, a former financial trader, next to Amy Kaufman, a children's book editor, in Tarrytown
 and Nancy Petrillo, an executive assistant in Tarrytown. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MAYORS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); BUDGETS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); BACTERIA (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); E COLI (53%); TERRORISM (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%) Public Opinion; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Tarrytown (NY); Massapequa (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



711 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Rell Still Poses Big Challenge for DeStefano

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
IN the Connecticut gubernatorial race, M. Jodi Rell, the Republican incumbent, has a 26 percentage point lead over her challenger, John DeStefano Jr., the Democratic mayor of New Haven, who won a bruising primary against Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford to be his party's candidate. 
 Mrs. Rell, 60, became governor on July 1, 2004, after a political corruption scandal that resulted in a prison sentence for Gov. John G. Rowland, whom she served as lieutenant governor for nine years.
 In her 28 months as governor, Mrs. Rell has reorganized the State Ethics Commission, pressed for an overhaul of campaign financing, and promoted a $1.3 billion transportation plan.
 Her platform emphasizes strengthening early childhood education, and creating jobs and improving the economy by maintaining a business-friendly tax rate and focusing on an energy policy promoting biofuel production centers, according to Rich Harris, communications director for the campaign.
 Mr. DeStefano, 51, has been New Haven mayor six times since 1993. He has been credited with revitalizing the city's downtown, attracting $1 billion in biotechnology companies and spending $1.2 billion to reduce class size in public schools.
 The DeStefano campaign has raised about $1.75 million. He has focused his bid largely on working families, with his three top issues being property taxes, energy costs and health care. He is proposing a property tax plan that includes freezing the taxes for people 65 and older. He has proposed establishing a minimum contribution from the state on education spending for every city and town, with the goal of the state contributing half of all education costs for every community. 
 He is a proponent of regional planning, which calls for projects like sports stadiums and convention centers to be decided by surrounding cities and towns rather than solely by the state. Mr. DeStefano says his energy plan, which includes providing interest-free loans to businesses that upgrade to energy-efficient equipment, would create 75,800 jobs and save consumers $2.1 billion.
 To provide universal access to affordable health care, a program expected to cost $343 million, Mr. DeStefano has suggested closing corporate tax loopholes, which his campaign says would save $350 million.
 A Quinnipiac University poll released Oct. 20 showed Mrs. Rell leading Mr. DeStefano 59 to 33 percent among likely voters, a slight decrease from her 63 to 30 percent edge in a Sept. 28 poll. In the interim, the DeStefano campaign introduced slightly more negative advertisements.
 Campaigning against a figure like Mrs. Rell, a grandmother, breast cancer survivor and affable personality, requires care, said Howard L. Reiter, chairman of the political science department at the University of Connecticut.
 ''When you have a woman governor with a fairly clean image who has had health issues, you must be very careful,'' he said. ''You're trying to defeat an incumbent with one hand tied behind your back.''
 Mr. Reiter also noted that unlike Mr. Rowland, Governor Rell has a ''hazy moderate image'' and exhibits a willingness to compromise.
 ''You don't get many bold initiatives out of her,'' he said. ''But politically, it makes it hard for anyone to draw a bead on her.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ON CUE -- Gov. M. Jodi Rell and Mayor John DeStefano Jr. (Photo by Associated Press/Bob Child)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHICS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); STUDENT EXPENSES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); TAX LAW (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); SENTENCING (71%); SCANDALS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (69%); FAMILY (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (56%); BIOFUELS (53%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (53%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%); BREAST CANCER (50%) Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%); DANNEL MALLOY (58%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell; John Jr (Mayor) Destefano; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



712 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2014 words

HEADLINE: When Voters Speak 

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
PEOPLE stopped on the street and asked to give an opinion about the elections will do at least one of the following: They will shift their weight, cross their arms, look past the interviewer, look anxious, ask how long this is going to take, exchange knowing glances with a companion, hesitate about giving their name, use the word ''change,'' call themselves moderate, say something predictable, say something really interesting.
 Otherwise, it is hard to generalize about the political mood based on a random set of sidewalk interviews conducted earlier this month with about 45 voters in the Democratic-leaning Westchester Village of Tarrytown and the Republican-leaning Long Island community of Massapequa. But it seems fair to say that people are worried.
They are worried about their party's losing influence, or about the obligations that accompany their party's gaining influence; about the war in Iraq; about the economy, or terrorism or E. coli bacteria in the food supply. While they're at it, they mention the trade deficit, the budget deficit, immigration, health care insurance, the environment and excessive partisanship in Washington. They worry that, with all there is to worry about, the quality of candidates at every level -- national, state and local -- isn't better. 
 For the most part, people interviewed on the postcard-pretty Main Street of Tarrytown and on the no-frills concrete platform of the Massapequa train station seemed to be uniformly ready for something electorally big to happen.
 They seemed revved for a momentous presidential election year, though what they will get on Nov. 7 is an off-year slate of contests, in the State of New York, anyway, in which voters will decide a handful of what appear to be somewhat lopsided contests. 
 ''We have damaged our position in the world,'' said Jill Rose, a business owner in Tarrytown, looking beyond Tarrytown and New York, and the borders of the United States. ''Where do we go from here?''
 Ready and able to discourse about Sunnis and Shiites, people had to be coaxed to give opinions about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's first term, or about the record of her opponent, John Spencer, as the onetime mayor of Yonkers.
 Feelings about the Republican candidate for attorney general, Jeanine F. Pirro, were somewhat strong in Westchester County, where she was once the district attorney, but almost undetectable among the people of Massapequa.
 At another time, that women are prominent players in some big contests around here -- for United States senator, for state attorney general, for various seats in Congress -- might have been the drive train of the political narrative. But this year almost no one, at least in this sample, was raising the issue.
 ''Pirro. Is she the one with the husband problem?'' said Felix Coppola, a retired commodities trader from Massapequa, referring to a mishmash of troubles that at one point sent Mrs. Pirro's husband, Albert, to prison and, most recently, threatened Mrs. Pirro with allegations that she had considered wiretapping her husband's phones because she suspected he was having an affair.
 ''Yeah, I heard something about that,'' Mr. Coppola said, pausing, as if deciding something. ''I just wish this was a presidential year. I want to vote out Bush.''
 Mrs. Pirro is running against Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat and the son of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
 There is a race for governor, too, and an environmental bond proposition in Nassau County. At the time of these interviews, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, was seeking re-election in a race that became interesting only last week, after the State Ethics Commission found that he had illegally used state employees to chauffeur his wife. His Republican opponent, J. Christopher Callaghan, the former treasurer in upstate Saratoga County, is suddenly getting some attention.
 But even with all that, events in Washington have for months -- years, even -- been bending the course of public attention, like a dark star bending light.
 ''I haven't followed the state races much, though I feel a little sorry for Pirro, having her personal life dragged into the campaign,'' said Amy Kaufman, a children's book editor interviewed at an outdoor cafe in Tarrytown.
 A friend with her, Maureen Occhiogrosso, a former financial trader, said: ''I'm mainly focused on the situation with Congress. Will the Republicans survive the Congressional elections? Will the president be able to keep the war out of public view? The war is in the news all the time, but it's almost as if it's someone else's war.''
 The races for State Senate and Assembly, the Congressional races, the judicial campaigns and the elections for state comptroller and lieutenant governor are all in count-down mode, no doubt about it. Bonnie Raitt, the pop star, performed to a $75-a-ticket sell-out crowd at the Tarrytown Music Hall on Oct. 18 to raise money for the Democratic Congressional campaign of John Hall, a musician himself who is challenging the incumbent, Sue Kelly, a moderate Republican in the 19th District, which includes parts of Westchester and Dutchess Counties.
 At a debate on Oct. 17 between Representative Peter T. King, the Republican incumbent from Long Island, and his opponent, David Mejias, a Democratic Nassau County legislator, an overflow crowd of more than 300 jammed the doorways and stairwells leading to the basement auditorium of the Levittown library. It was standing room only for two hours.
 But on a train station platform or at an outdoor cafe, people, folding their arms, shifting their weight, seemed to be looking on the elections as if viewing it all on the Google Earth computer program.
 ''The war troubles me,'' said Peter Bock, 67, a retired airline pilot from Massapequa, waiting for the westbound train, its headlights already in view. ''I never agreed with it from the beginning. Now we have a big problem over there, and I just hope there's going to be a change in the party in power.''
 Mr. Coppola, the retired commodities trader, said he was going to vote again for Mr. King, a seven-term congressman, but not because Mr. King is a staunch supporter of the war in Iraq. ''I like him because he's really tough, not like Bush, who just claims to be tough,'' Mr. Coppola said.
 There is something poignant about the political opinions that lurk beneath the surface of most people's everyday lives. They are probably not most people's first thoughts in the morning or their last ones at night. They are usually secondary to feelings and opinions people have about (depending on the people) work, love, family, child-rearing, real estate investments and the merits of the National Basketball Association's age restrictions.
 But just ask. Like some strange larval creature that gets to act on its instincts only once a year, the inner voter emerges to show its mysteriously patterned wings.
 ''Of the whole bunch of them, in the whole country, I tell you, Spitzer is the only one I like,'' said Nancy Petrillo of the Bronx, who works as an executive assistant in Tarrytown and who was eating lunch outside. ''Him and Kerrey. Not John Kerry. The other one, Bob Kerrey, the president of the New School. He knows what life is about.'' Mr. Kerrey, the former governor and senator from Nebraska, and now president of the New School, is not running for anything.
 The name Spitzer would be a reference to the governor's race. In that contest, the current attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, is running against a former state assemblyman, John Faso, a Republican who lives in Kinderhook. Without prompting, few people mentioned either man.
 But once asked, people generally said that they would vote for Mr. Spitzer and that they did not know very much about Mr. Faso.
 To take this sort of dipstick of voter interest is to get a hint of how hard it must be to grab voters' attention, vying as candidates do with the constellation of fame and hugeness that is the very air of Americans' consciousness.
 Local candidates, especially, are lucky if they are remembered for one thing (and unlucky if it's the wrong thing), no matter how long they have served in office.
 The same Republican state senator, Nick Spano, for example, had impressed and annoyed two of the people approached at random within the same hour on the same block in Tarrytown.
 He annoyed Nick Bruel, 40, by mailing an official-looking voter's guide that Mr. Bruel considered deceptive because it left out the name of Mr. Spano's Democratic opponent, Andrea Stewart-Cousins.
 Mr. Spano earned respect from Ms. Kaufman, the book editor, for his efforts to get grant money for the Tarrytown public schools.
 Every political office-seeker cares about every vote, of course. But in the case of Mr. Spano, it is caring of another order: Mr. Spano is running for the second time against Ms. Stewart-Cousins, a Westchester County legislator, whom he beat in 2004 by only 18 votes.
 Sometimes, respect and irritation can vie in the heart of a single voter for the same candidate. Clare Farmar of Tarrytown, a former Wall Street analyst, stopped outside a food store to explore her feelings about Mrs. Clinton.
 ''She's very competent, very accomplished, she has a lot of what it takes,'' Ms. Farmar said. ''But I think she's worked both sides of the fence on the war rather than trying to come up with a good solution. I disagree with her on a lot of things. But I'll probably vote for her.''
 Richard Shadock, 56, a Massapequa sheet-metal worker, entertains a similar interior dialogue on the subject of his congressman, Mr. King. He has voted for him each of the previous seven times that Mr. King has run and likes that Mr. King was elected by fellow committee members as chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security last year.
 ''He's a smart guy, he did an excellent job for us for a long time, and he's moving up the ladder of success, which is fine,'' Mr. Shadock said. ''But while he's devoting all this time to national issues, a working man has to win the Lotto to get medical insurance.'' 
 Mr. Shadock also complained about the amount of aid the school district receives, concluding: ''Who's taking care of these things? I can't vote for him again.''
 Apkar Omartian, a retired architect from Tarrytown, said he had not made his mind up about who would get his vote for anything this year. Frankly, he said, he is fed up with the failure of government at all levels to stop the influx of illegal immigrants and sick of the ''personal aggrandizement'' that motivates too many people in politics.
 ''The man in the street tries to do his best, and all he gets is higher taxes,'' Mr. Omartian said.
 So, to sum it all up:
 There are voters who are too worried about the big things to focus on the little things. There are voters who are too ticked off about the little things to trust their officials to handle the big things. In Massapequa, commuters mentioned taxes in the first exhalation of worry, followed by the war. The $100 million environmental bond proposal on the Nassau County ballot, which at a cost of $16 a household would preserve some of the last remaining open space in one of the nation's most densely populated suburbs, never came up.
 In Tarrytown, the order of worry was the war, the war, followed distantly by terrorism, environmental issues and overdevelopment along the Hudson River, where new homes are being built.
 ''It's time for a change,'' said Jack Arcate, 54, of Tarrytown, a Republican who said he would vote for a Democrat if only one of them would come up with an idea.
 Jeff Lattime, 42, of Massapequa, said: ''People feel squeezed. Prices and taxes keep going up, but people don't seem to be making a lot more.''
 Mr. Coppola of Massapequa said: ''These terrorists are screwing up our life. They're breaking down the American spirit. I wouldn't be surprised if they poisoned the spinach. You never know. The only optimists left are on Wall Street and Atlantic City.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Coppola acknowledged, he is a visitor to and patron of both those domains.


GRAPHIC: Photos: VOICES -- New Yorkers will have their say on Nov. 7. Westchester and Long Island voters who shared their opinions included clockwise from top left, Clare Farmar of Tarrytown, a former Wall Street analyst
Jill Rose, a business owner in Tarrytown
Felix Coppola, a retired commodities trader from Massapequa
Richard Shadock, a Massapequa sheet-metal worker
Peter Bock, a retired airline pilot from Massapequa
Maureen Occhiogrosso, right, a former financial trader, next to Amy Kaufman, a children's book editor, in Tarrytown
 and Nancy Petrillo, an executive assistant in Tarrytown. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MAYORS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); BUDGETS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); BACTERIA (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); E COLI (53%); TERRORISM (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%) Public Opinion; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Tarrytown (NY); Massapequa (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



713 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: If Not Now, When?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Perhaps the most extraordinary aspect of Darfur isn't that gunmen on the Sudanese payroll heave babies into bonfires as they shout epithets against blacks. It's that the rest of us are responding only with averted eyes and polite tut-tutting.
 This past week alone, Sudan expelled the U.N. envoy for Sudan and sent a proxy army to invade eastern Chad. Those moves underscored both the audacity of Sudan's leaders and the fecklessness of the rest of the world's. 
In fact, there's plenty we can do. The international community has focused on getting U.N. peacekeepers into Darfur, but Sudan refuses to admit them. The stalemate drags on; the slaughter continues -- but here's what we can do:
 Kofi Annan should appoint a new U.N. envoy of utmost prominence. Possibilities include Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter, Richard Holbrooke and Bernard Kouchner (a founder of Doctors Without Borders). The envoy's job would be to lead an intensive negotiation aimed at achieving a political settlement.
 The focus has been on getting U.N. peacekeepers into Darfur, and they are needed, but in the long run only a peace accord can calm Darfur. ''This is distracting from the main need,'' Mudawi Ibrahim Adam, a Sudanese human rights campaigner, said of the focus on peacekeepers. In May a peace agreement was stillborn after only one Darfur rebel faction signed it, but the pact can be renegotiated, for the differences are small and bridgeable.
 President Bush and European leaders need to use their leverage on four nations in particular to make them part of the solution: China, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Libya. China is playing a disgraceful role underwriting the Darfur genocide, by giving Sudan the guns used to shoot children and by protecting Sudan in the U.N. Security Council. And the three Arab states need to be involved so that Sudan cannot claim that plans to protect Darfuris are American or Jewish plots to dismember the country.
 ''It is very clear there is a plan to redraw the region,'' the Sudanese president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, said last month, explaining the calls for U.N. peacekeepers in Darfur. ''Any state in the region should be weakened, dismembered in order to protect the Israelis.'' 
 Sudanese journalists say that Mr. Bashir has cleverly used such arguments to portray himself as a nationalist, and as a result is in a stronger position now than when he started killing babies in Darfur. Arab leaders need to show that they care about Muslim children being shot even when Israel is not responsible.
 To get more coverage on Al Jazeera and other Arab networks, Mr. Annan could take a planeload of Arab journalists on a visit to Darfur refugee camps. Condi Rice could do the same. The U.S. could put video footage (I'd supply some) of Darfur atrocities on its Arabic-language satellite television station, Al Hurra.
 The U.S., France and U.N. should immediately send peacekeepers to Chad and the Central African Republic to prop up those countries (the U.S. can supply airlift, intelligence and communications support, but our ground troops would create a backlash). Sudan has sent proxy forces to invade both, and they are teetering.
 We need contingency plans for forcible military intervention. There is talk that in the coming months Sudan's janjaweed militias may start systematically massacring some of the two million people who have taken shelter in camps in Darfur. If that were to happen, U.N. and NATO forces would have to go in and rescue those people -- and if Sudan knew of such contingency plans, that would make massacres less likely.
 The U.S. and French air forces should jointly impose a no-fly zone from the French air base in Abeche, Chad, as the Chadian president has invited us to do. 
 Western countries should apply targeted sanctions that freeze international assets of Sudanese leaders whom the U.N. has already listed as involved in the genocide.
 Mr. Bush must use his bully pulpit. He could invite Arab and African leaders to the White House for a summit on Darfur. He could suggest to the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, that they jointly visit the area. 
 After fewer than 10,000 white people had died in Kosovo, the U.S. intervened to prevent a genocide. So far, several hundred thousand black people have been slaughtered in Darfur, and our president hasn't even dedicated a speech to it.
 If we don't try bold new approaches now, when? After 750,000 have died and Chad has collapsed? After all north central Africa is in chaos and 1.5 million are dead? When? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (56%) United Nations

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (56%); BERNARD KOUCHNER (52%); JIMMY CARTER (52%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); CHAD (92%); FRANCE (79%) Sudan; France; Chad; Central African Republic; Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Europe; China; Saudi Arabia; Egypt; Libya

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



714 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobs Shape Condoms' Role In Foreign Aid 

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: EUFAULA, Alabama 

 BODY:
Here in this courtly, antebellum town, Alabama's condom production has survived an onslaught of Asian competition, thanks to the patronage of straitlaced congressmen from this Bible Belt state. 
 Behind the scenes, the politicians have ensured that companies in Alabama won federal contracts to make billions of condoms over the years for AIDS prevention and family planning programs overseas, though Asian factories could do the job at less than half the cost.
 In recent years, the state's condom manufacturers fell hundreds of millions of condoms behind on orders, and the federal aid agency began buying them from Asia. The use of Asian-made condoms has contributed to layoffs that are coming next month. 
 But Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, has quietly pressed to maintain the unqualified priority for American-made condoms and is likely to prevail if the past is any guide. 
 ''What's wrong with helping the American worker at the same time we are helping people around the world?'' asked the senator's spokesman, Michael Brumas.
 That question goes to the heart of an intensifying debate among wealthy nations about to what degree foreign aid is about saving jobs at home or lives abroad. 
 Britain, Ireland and Norway have all sought to make aid more cost effective by opening contracts in their programs to fight global poverty to international competition. The United States, meanwhile, continues to restrict bidding on billions of dollars worth of business to companies operating in America, and not just those that make condoms. 
 The wheat to feed the starving must be grown in United States and shipped to Africa, enriching agribusiness giants like Archer Daniels Midland and Cargill. The American consulting firms that carry out antipoverty programs abroad -- dubbed beltway bandits by critics -- do work that some advocates say local groups in developing countries could often manage at far less cost.
 The history of the federal government's condom purchases embodies the tradeoffs that characterize foreign aid American-style. Alabama's congressmen have long preserved several hundred factory jobs here by insisting that the United States Agency for International Development buy condoms made here, though, probably in a nod to their conservative constituencies, most have typically done so discreetly. 
 Those who favor tying aid to domestic interests say that it not only preserves jobs and supports American companies, but helps ensure broad political support for foreign aid, which is not always popular. 
 On the other hand, skepticism of foreign aid is frequently rooted in the perception that the money is not well spent. Blame often falls on corrupt leaders in poor countries, but aid from rich nations with restrictions requiring it to be spent in the donor country can also reduce effectiveness. 
 The United States government, the world's largest donor of condoms, has bought more than nine billion condoms over the past two decades. Under President Bush's global AIDS plan, which dedicates billions of dollars to fight the epidemic, a third of the money for prevention must go to promoting abstinence. But that leaves two-thirds for other programs, so the federal government's distribution of condoms has risen, to over 400 million a year. 
 Over the years, Usaid could have afforded even more condoms -- among the most effective methods for slowing the spread of AIDS -- if it had it bought them from the lowest bidders on the world market, as have the United Nations Population Fund and many other donors. 
 Randall L. Tobias, who heads Usaid, declined through a spokesman to be interviewed on this topic. His predecessor, Andrew Natsios, sought to weaken the hold of what he sometimes called a cartel of domestic interest groups over foreign aid. He tried, for example, to persuade Congress to allow the purchase of some African food to feed Africa's hungry. Congress killed that proposal last year and again this year. 
 Hilary Benn, Britain's secretary of state for international development, said in an interview that in 2001 his country untied its aid from requirements that only British firms could bid for international antipoverty work.
 ''If you untie aid, it's 100 percent clear you're giving aid to reduce poverty and not to benefit your own country's commercial interests,'' he said.
 In recent years, most of the low-end condom business has moved to Asia, including Australia-based Ansell, which used to have plants in Alabama. American makers cannot compete with Asia on price -- unless they have the federal contract.
 The last American factory making condoms for Usaid sits anonymously in a pine-shaded industrial park here in Eufaula. Inside a modern, low-slung building owned by Alatech Healthcare, ingenious contraptions almost as long as a football field repeatedly dip 16,000 phallic-shaped bulbs into vats of latex, with the capacity to turn out a billion condoms a year. 
 The equation of need is never straightforward. Africa's need to forestall its slow-motion catastrophe of AIDS deaths is vast. But there is need here, too. 
 Most of the 260 people employed at this factory and the company's packaging plant in Slocomb are women, some the children of sharecroppers and textile factory workers, many of them struggling to support families on $7 to $8 an hour. 
 The most vulnerable among them -- single mothers and older women with scant education -- are the most fearful of foreign competition. All feel the looming threat. 
 ''It's cheaper, yeah,'' said Lisa Jackson, 42, a worker in the packaging plant. ''But we Americans should have first choice. We need our jobs to stay in America. We got to feed our families. I just wish it had never come to sending manufacturing jobs overseas.''
 From 2003 to 2005, Alatech and one other company making condoms for Usaid fell behind on their orders, agency officials said. Last year, the other company went bankrupt. So Usaid ordered condoms from Asia, the first of which were shipped last year. With only a single American company still in line for the federal contract, agency officials are wary of ruling out Asian suppliers.
 At such moments in the past, Alabama's politicians have come to the rescue of the state's condom industry. This time was no exception. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Republican on the Appropriations Committee, had a provision tucked into the 2004 budget bill requiring that Usaid buy only American-made condoms to the extent possible, given cost and availability. His spokeswoman, Kate Boyd, said the agency did not tell him it was worried about the relative cost of American and Asian-made condoms.
 Senator Sessions wrote Usaid a letter last year saying it should purchase condoms from foreign producers only after it had bought all the condoms American companies could make, noting it was ''extremely important to jobs in my state.'' 
 Usaid assured the senator in writing that it ''remains committed to prioritizing domestic suppliers.''
 On the strength of that, Alatech bought the more modern Eufaula plant from its bankrupt rival. Without the government contract, the company's president, Larry Povlacs, said, Alatech would go out of business. 
 In interviews, agency officials were noncommittal about whether they would halt all purchases in Asia. Condoms made there cost around 2 cents each, opposed to about 5 cents for those made here. 
 ''At the end of the day, it's all a political process,'' Bob Lester, who recently retired after 31 years as a lawyer at Usaid, said of such decisions. ''The foreign aid program has very few rabbis. Why make enemies when you don't have to?'' 
 Duff Gillespie, a retired senior Usaid official who is now a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, said that over the years officials at Usaid raised the prospect of foreign competition to tamp down what he called ''the greed factor'' of Alabama condom manufacturers.
 But whenever the staff pushed to buy in Asia, Alabama politicians pushed right back.
 During the Reagan years, the offices of two Alabamans, Representative William Dickinson, a Republican, and Senator Howell Heflin, a Democrat, caught wind of one such move. Mike Houston, chief of staff to Senator Heflin, recalled being tipped off by Mr. Dickinson's chief of staff. 
 ''He says, 'Well, A.I.D. is going to buy condoms from Korea,' '' Mr. Houston recalled. '' 'The reason is they can get three condoms for the price of one that they're paying us.' '' Mr. Houston said he asked in amazement, ''You mean we're making rubbers in Alabama?'' 
 The congressmen's staffs threatened to introduce amendments to require that condoms be made in America. The agency backed off. 
 Further attempts to open up bidding proved fruitless. Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat from Washington State, had seen the devastation of AIDS firsthand in the 1980s as a State Department medical officer in Africa. But he said he could not break what he called the ''stranglehold'' of Alabama congressmen on the condom rules. 
 In the mid-to-late 1990s, Representative Sonny Callahan, a Republican from Alabama, served as chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that shaped Usaid's budget. Brian Atwood, who headed Usaid in those years, said no administrator ''in his right mind'' would have tried to cut Alabama out of the condom contract at a time when many Republicans were deeply hostile to foreign aid. 
 Then in 2001, after decades of negotiation, the United States and other wealthy donor nations reached a nonbinding agreement to open at least some foreign aid contracts to all qualified bidders. Included were those for commodities bound for the world's poorest nations.
 Usaid decided the agreement did not apply to condoms since some went to more advanced developing countries. Alabama's manufacturers kept the condom business once again. 
 William Nicol, who heads the poverty reduction division of the Development Assistance Committee at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of economically advanced countries, scoffed at Usaid's interpretation. ''That's rubbish,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 The condom companies' inability in recent years to fulfill Usaid's orders accomplished what the gentleman's agreement did not: the entry of Asian competitors. 
 Usaid has asked Alatech to make 201 million condoms next year, less than half of this year's order, and ordered another 100 million made in Korea and China.
 Come Nov. 15, Alatech will lay off more than half its work force. Those jobs fell victim to Usaid's smaller orders for condoms, foreign competition and automation.
 The reactions of these workers ranged from philosophical to panicked. 
 One, Garry Appling, a 41-year-old single mother, has worked before as a $6-an-hour cashier at Krystal, the fast food restaurant, and another at $7.15 an hour in a chicken processing plant. She said her 10-year-old daughter, Anterria, worries that she will have to go back to the chicken plant, a place so cold and wet Ms. Appling often fell ill.
 But even facing her own impending job loss, Ms. Appling took a moment to empathize with the women making condoms on the other side of the world. 
 ''We need a job -- I guess they do, too,'' she said, during a brief pause from feeding condoms into an intricate, rotating, whooshing machine that tested them for holes. ''It's sad.
 ''At the same time, the United States can't just keep helping overseas. They've got to help us, too.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Alabama companies that produce condoms used in foreign aid programs misstated the surname for an aide to Howell Heflin, then a Democratic senator from Alabama, who recounted an episode during the Reagan years in which Congressional offices helped protect the companies from foreign competition. He is Mike House, not Houston.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Usaid buys condoms from Alabama at twice the price of Asian ones.
 Workers at the sole American condom factory for the Usaid program, in Eufaula, Ala., fear losing their jobs to lower-paid Asian workers. (Photographs by Jacquelyn Martin for The New York Times)(pg. 20) Map of Alabama highlighting Eufaula: A plant in Eufaula, Ala., produces most of the condoms for Usaid. (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MISC RUBBER PRODUCTS MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); FAMILY PLANNING (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); STARVATION (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); TRENDS (69%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%) Birth Control and Family Planning; Foreign Aid; Condoms; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Labor; Birth Control and Family Planning; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (82%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (82%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (82%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (82%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (82%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (82%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (82%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (82%)

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Celia W Dugger; Jeff (Sen) Sessions

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%) Alabama ; Great Britain; Ireland; Norway; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



715 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESSES SEEK NEW PROTECTION ON LEGAL FRONT 

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
Frustrated with laws and regulations that have made companies and accounting firms more open to lawsuits from investors and the government, corporate America -- with the encouragement of the Bush administration -- is preparing to fight back. 
 Now that corruption cases like Enron and WorldCom are falling out of the news, two influential industry groups with close ties to administration officials are hoping to swing the regulatory pendulum in the opposite direction. The groups are drafting proposals to provide broad new protections to corporations and accounting firms from criminal cases brought by federal and state prosecutors as well as a stronger shield against civil lawsuits from investors.
Although the details are still being worked out, the groups' proposals aim to limit the liability of accounting firms for the work they do on behalf of clients, to force prosecutors to target individual wrongdoers rather than entire companies, and to scale back shareholder lawsuits.
 The groups hope to reduce what they see as some burdens imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, landmark post-Enron legislation adopted in 2002. The law, which placed significant new auditing and governance requirements on companies, gave broad discretion for interpretation to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The groups are also interested in rolling back rules and policies that have been on the books for decades. 
 To alleviate concerns that the new Congress may not adopt the proposals -- regardless of which party holds power in the legislative branch next year -- many are being tailored so that they could be adopted through rulemaking by the S.E.C. and enforcement policy changes at the Justice Department. 
 The proposals will begin to be laid out in public shortly after Election Day, members of the groups said in recent interviews. One of the committees was formed by the United States Chamber of Commerce and until recently was headed by Robert K. Steel.
 Mr. Steel was sworn in last Friday as the new Treasury undersecretary for domestic finance, and he is the senior official in the department who will be formulating the Treasury's views on the issues being studied by the two groups.
 The second committee was formed by the Harvard Law professor Hal S. Scott, along with R. Glenn Hubbard, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers for President Bush, and John L. Thornton, a former president of Goldman Sachs, where he worked with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. 
 That group has colloquially become known around Washington as the Paulson Committee because the relatively new Treasury secretary issued an encouraging statement when it was formed last month. But administration officials said Friday that he was not playing a role in the group's deliberations. 
 Its members include Donald L. Evans, a former commerce secretary who remains a close friend of President Bush; Samuel A. DiPiazza Jr., chief executive of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting giant; Robert R. Glauber, former chairman and chief executive of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the private group that oversees the securities industry; and the chief executives of DuPont, Office Depot and the CIT Group.
 Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman at the Treasury Department, said on Friday that no decision had been made about which recommendations would be supported by the administration.
 ''While the department always wants to hear new ideas from academic and industry thought leaders, especially to encourage the strength of the U.S. capital markets, Treasury is not a member of these committees and is not collaborating on any findings,'' Ms. Zuccarelli said.
 But another official and committee members noted that Mr. Paulson had recently pressed the groups in private discussions to complete their work so it could be rolled out quickly after the November elections.
 Moreover, committee members say that they expect many of their recommendations will be used as part of an overall administration effort to limit what they see as overzealous state prosecutions by such figures as the New York State attorney general Elliot Spitzer and abusive class action lawsuits by investors. The groups will also attempt to lower what they see as the excessive costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 Their critics, however, see the effort as part of a plan to cater to the most well-heeled constituents of the administration and insulate politically connected companies from prosecution at the expense of investors.
 One consideration in drafting the proposals has been the chain of events at Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm that was convicted in 2002 of obstruction of justice for shredding Enron-related documents; the conviction was overturned in 2005 by the Supreme Court. The proposals being drafted would aim to limit the liability of auditing firms and include a policy shift to make it harder for prosecutors to bring cases against individuals and companies.
 Even though Arthur Andersen played a prominent role in various corporate scandals, some business and legal experts have criticized the decision by the Bush administration to bring a criminal case that had the effect of shutting the firm down. 
 The proposed policies would emphasize the prosecution of culpable individuals rather than corporations and auditing firms. That shift could prove difficult for prosecutors because it is often harder to find sufficient evidence to show that specific people at a company were the ones who knowingly violated a law. 
 One proposal would recommend that the Justice Department sharply curtail its policy of forcing companies under investigation to withhold paying the legal fees of executives suspected of violating the law. Another one would require some investor lawsuits to be handled by arbitration panels, which are traditionally friendlier to defendants.
 In an interview last week with Bloomberg News, Mr. Paulson repeated his criticism of the Sarbanes-Oxley law. While it had done some good, he said, it had contributed to ''an atmosphere that has made it more burdensome for companies to operate.'' 
 Mr. Paulson also repeated a line from his first speech, given at Columbia Business School last August, where he said, ''Often the pendulum swings too far and we need to go through a period of readjustment.''
 Some experts see Mr. Paulson's complaint as a step backward.
 ''This is an escalation of the culture war against regulation,'' said James D. Cox, a securities and corporate law professor at Duke Law School. He said many of the proposals, if adopted, ''would be a dark day for investors.''
 Professor Cox, who has studied 600 class action lawsuits over the last decade, said it was difficult to find ''abusive or malicious'' cases, particularly in light of new laws and court decisions that had made it more difficult to file such suits.
 The number of securities class action lawsuits has dropped substantially in each of the last two years, he noted, arguing that the impact of the proposals from the business groups would be that ''very few people would be prosecuted.''
 People involved in the committees said that the timing of the proposals was being dictated by the political calendar: closely following Election Day and as far away as possible from the 2008 elections.
 Mr. Hubbard, who is now dean of Columbia Business School, said the committee he helps lead would focus on the lack of proper economic foundation for a number of regulations. Most changes will be proposed through regulation, he said, because ''the current political environment is simply not ripe for legislation.''
 But the politics of changing the rules donot break cleanly along party lines. While some prominent Democrats would surely attack the pro-business efforts, there are others who in the past have been sympathetic. 
 People involved in the committees' work said that their objective was to improve the attractiveness of American capital-raising markets by scaling back rules whose costs outweigh their benefits.
 ''We think the legal liability issues are the most serious ones,'' said Professor Scott, the director of the committee singled out by Mr. Paulson. ''Companies don't want to use our markets because of what they see as the substantial, and in their view excessive, liability.''
 Committee officials disputed the notion that they were simply catering to powerful business interests seeking to benefit from loosening regulations that could wind up hurting investors.
 ''It's unfortunate to the extent that this has been politicized,'' said Robert E. Litan, a former Justice Department official and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who is overseeing the committee's legal liability subgroup. ''The objectives are clearly not to gut such reforms as Sarbanes-Oxley. I'm for cost-effective regulation.''
 The main Sarbanes-Oxley provision that both committees are focusing on is a part that is commonly called Section 404, which requires audits of companies' internal financial controls. Some business experts praise this section as having made companies more transparent and better managed, but many smaller companies call the section too costly and unnecessary. 
 Members of the two committees said that they had reached a consensus that Section 404, along with greater threat of investor lawsuits and government prosecutions, had discouraged foreign companies from issuing new stock on exchanges in the United States in recent months. 
 The committee members said that an increase in stock offerings abroad was evidence that the American liability system and tougher auditing standards were taking a toll on the competitiveness of American markets. But others see different reasons for the trend and few links to liability and accounting rules.
 Bill Daley, a former commerce secretary in the Clinton administration who is the co-chairman of the Chamber of Commerce group, expects proposed changes to liability standards for accounting firms and corporations to draw the most flak. But he said that the changes affecting accounting firms are of paramount importance to prevent the further decline in competition. Only four major firms were left after Andersen's collapse.
 Another contentious issue concerns a proposal to eliminate the use of a broadly written and long-established anti-fraud rule, known as Rule 10b-5, that allows shareholders to sue companies for fraud. The change could be accomplished by a vote of the S.E.C. 
 John C. Coffee, a professor of securities law at Columbia Law School and an adviser to the Paulson Committee, said that he had recommended that the S.E.C. adopt the exception to Rule 10b-5 so that only the commission could bring such lawsuits against corporations.
 But other securities law experts warned that such a move would extinguish a fundamental check on corporate malfeasance. 
 ''It would be a shocking turning back to say only the commission can bring fraud cases,'' said Harvey J. Goldschmid, a former S.E.C. commissioner and law professor at Columbia University. ''Private enforcement is a necessary supplement to the work that the S.E.C. does. It is also a safety valve against the potential capture of the agency by industry.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leading the industry groups hoping to scale back corporate regulation are, clockwise from top left, R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School
John L. Thornton, a former president of Goldman Sachs
Donald Evans, a former commerce secretary
 and Robert Glauber, a former NASD chairman. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Stocks and Bonds; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%) United States Chamber of Commerce; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HENRY PAULSON (57%) Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush; Hal S (Prof) Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



716 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2965 words

HEADLINE: Waterfront Project Reflects 2 Images of a Senator

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI and RAY RIVERA; Aron Pilhofer contributed reporting from New York and Kitty Bennett from Washington.

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J. 

 BODY:
Senator Robert Menendez is not directly involved in building the new waterfront development that will soon rise here in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty. But his influence can be seen throughout it.
 The project, which occupies the 437-acre site of the abandoned Military Ocean Terminal, is being built with the help of nearly $30 million in federal funds that Mr. Menendez secured using his trademark policy expertise and aggressive politicking. His work provided the seed money for a plan to produce movie studios and shops, marinas and waterfront parks, and 6,600 homes.
The project has also produced considerable work for some of his chief political supporters.
 The first major contract to develop the site went to a company that hired a Menendez friend and political confidant, Donald Scarinci, to lobby for it. That developer later took on Mr. Menendez's former campaign treasurer, Carl Goldberg, as a partner. Bonds for a portion of the project were underwritten by Dennis Enright, a top campaign contributor, while Kay LiCausi, a former Menendez Congressional aide and major fund-raiser, received lucrative work lobbying for the project. 
 Mr. Menendez said he had no role in securing the contracts for any of his friends. But the project, known as the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor, nonetheless displays the two contrasting images of Mr. Menendez -- one a fiery advocate who brings home federal aid for his constituents, the other a political empire builder who detractors say pushes too much largess toward his friends.
 Whether the considerable clout wielded by Mr. Menendez in Congress is matched by cronyism, or worse, at home, has become one of the central issues in the Senate race he is waging against State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., his Republican challenger.
 Republicans have portrayed Mr. Menendez as a modern-day political boss, presiding over an apparatus not of union stewards, ward heelers and precinct captains, but of lawyers, developers and lobbyists who fill his campaign coffers. 
 In a year when Republican candidates are on the defensive, Mr. Kean's steady attacks on Mr. Menendez's ethics have made the New Jersey race one of nation's closest and nastiest. A defeat here, where Democrats have not lost a Senate race since 1972, would endanger the party's hopes of winning control of the upper chamber. 
 Mr. Menendez brushes aside the questions about his ethics as ''guilt by geography,'' a reference to his rise in politics in Hudson County, where the reputation for machine politics and official mischief is notable even by New Jersey standards. Mr. Menendez asserts that in 32 years in political office he has never once used his power to steer a contract to an ally. 
 Mr. Menendez's supporters say the attacks are simply a way for Republicans to avoid talking about issues he has campaigned on, including Iraq, terrorism and stem cell research. ''Those are the things that matter to people, which Senator Menendez is far superior on, both in his knowledge and in his ability to articulate,'' said State Senator Bernard Kenny, chairman of the Hudson County Democratic Organization.
 Even Mr. Menendez's critics concede his success in bringing federal transportation and environmental funds to the state while serving in the House for 13 years. That money helped revitalize blighted communities in his district, particularly a stretch along the Hudson that has come to be known as New Jersey's Gold Coast. 
 It should not be odd then, Mr. Menendez says, that developers and business leaders have expressed their approval by contributing to his campaigns. 
 ''If someone agrees with your policy goals, is it surprising that they would support you?'' he said in a recent interview. ''What are they supposed to do? Give to someone who opposes their vision?''

A Land of Scandal
 In many ways Mr. Kean has tried to turn the election into a referendum on Hudson County and its checkered political history. 
 The densely packed county was once a destination for generations of Irish, Italian and Cuban immigrants, including Mr. Menendez's parents, drawn by low rents and the promise of work in the factories and shipyards that stared across the harbor at the New York City skyline. 
 Today, the county functions almost like New York's sixth borough, as young professionals, families and banking firms flee to cities like Hoboken and Jersey City in search of rents that are lower than in Manhattan. 
 But while the county's demographics have shifted, and many of its communities have gained new vibrancy, its reputation for corruption has endured. It was here that Frank ''Boss'' Hague, Jersey City mayor from 1917 to 1947, famously declared ''I am the law,'' while ruling over a machine that controlled governors, judges and United States senators. When he died, he had a net worth of $10 million though his salary never eclipsed $8,000 a year. 
 In the 1980s, after an onslaught of corruption cases hit the county, The Jersey Journal declared in a headline, ''No Hudson officials indicted today.'' 
 These days, the political power structure is less influential and more decentralized than in the past. The taint of scandal continues, however. Since 2002, about 20 public officials, including former County Executive Robert Janiszewski, have been indicted or convicted of corruption charges. 
 But Mr. Menendez, who grew up in Union City, says he is proud of his roots and of the way that he fought his way up, unlike his opponent, the scion of a famous New Jersey political family who was appointed to his first posts in the State Assembly and Senate. 
 In fact, Mr. Menendez's reputation as a tenacious infighter was born challenging the political establishment. In 1981, as a young lawyer serving as school board secretary, he became a government witness after discovering that the mayor, William V. Musto, who had been both mentor and father figure to him after his own father committed suicide, was diverting school funds to organized crime. 
 To many, the act was seen as a shameful betrayal, stirring so much resentment that Mr. Menendez said he took to wearing a bulletproof vest during the trial. When he made a bid to run against Mr. Musto for mayor, fliers filled the streets depicting him as a plump bird in a cage, with the caption, ''Once a canary, always a canary.'' 
 Mr. Menendez lost the election, but four years later he ran again and won, becoming the state's first Hispanic to be elected mayor. 
 He went on to become the first Hispanic elected to the State Assembly, the State Senate and, in 1993, the first to represent New Jersey in the House of Representatives, where he rose to be the third-ranking Democrat. Jon S. Corzine appointed him to finish out the final year of his Senate term after Mr. Corzine was elected governor in 2005.
 In Washington, he has become a respected voice on issues like immigration and transportation, and a staunch defender of liberal causes like stem cell research and abortion rights. He has also broken with his party to support deregulation of the financial services industry, a growing force in the New Jersey economy, and his devout opposition to Fidel Castro has won him near folk-hero status, and generous campaign contributions, in South Florida.
 But critics from both parties say that some of Mr. Menendez's most ardent battles have been fought to preserve his own power, and protect government contracts of his patrons.
 ''If you're going to cross him or his people, you're in for the fight of your life,'' said William O'Dea, a Democratic freeholder from Hudson County who has clashed with Mr. Menendez over the apportionment of county contracts. 

A Friend's Good Fortune
 Perhaps no one has done more to foster Mr. Menendez's political success than Mr. Scarinci, a childhood friend who has stood by him from the days when he was battling Mr. Musto, and before. And few have benefited more from that success: among Mr. Menendez's first acts as Union City mayor was to name Mr. Scarinci city attorney. 
 Mr. Scarinci has since contributed more than $250,000 to state Democrats and helped raise millions more; he and his wife and members of his law firm have contributed more than $40,000 to Mr. Menendez's Congressional campaigns since 1997. As his chief campaign fund-raiser, Mr. Scarinci was so closely associated with Mr. Menendez that many elected officials came to view him as the congressman's emissary. 
 As he raised money for Mr. Menendez and helped him navigate the treacherous currents of Hudson County politics, Mr. Scarinci also won millions of dollars in state and local contracts for his law firm, many of them with government entities over which Mr. Menendez and his allies hold immense influence.
 For example, after Mr. Menendez was named to head Gov. James E. McGreevey's transition team, he lobbied vigorously to help Mr. Scarinci win a legal contract with the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, according to three officials familiar with the appointment. Mr. Scarinci's firm has made $2.8 million from that contract since 2002.
 Mr. Scarinci does not deny that his firm has benefited from his political activity. 
 ''It's not the political connections as much as you're involved,'' he said in an interview earlier this year. ''So when they win, you're not going to hire some stranger, you're going to hire someone you're comfortable with, someone you trust.'' 
 Mr. Menendez insists that he has never helped Mr. Scarinci get or keep a contract, except when he was mayor and it was his duty to appoint legal counsel. 
 But in 1999, Mr. Menendez led a fierce recall effort against his former protege, Mayor Rudy Garcia of Union City, because, Mr. Garcia says, he had fired Mr. Scarinci as city attorney. Mr. Menendez says it was because Mr. Garcia wanted his job in Congress. Whatever the cause, there was no mistaking who won: Mr. Garcia resigned as mayor in 2000, and his successor promptly rehired Mr. Scarinci. 
 Mr. Scarinci was forced to sever his ties with the campaign last month, after the release of audio tapes recorded in 1999 in which he is heard advising a client who held a lucrative psychiatric contract with Hudson County to hire another physician as a ''favor'' to Mr. Menendez.
 The psychiatrist with the contract, Oscar Sandoval, who is being sued by the county for allegedly bribing Mr. Janiszewski, the former county executive, to win contracts in the first place, said in an interview that Mr. Scarinci's message was clear: hire Mr. Menendez's friend or risk losing the contracts. 
 After the tapes were released, Mr. Scarinci issued written statements denying Dr. Sandoval's allegations and insisting that his dealings with him were never directed or requested by Mr. Menendez. 
 True or not, the tapes have provided fodder to Mr. Kean, who in ads has promised to free New Jersey from ''the clutch of corruption.'' 
 In September, United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie also subpoenaed the records of a Hudson County social services agency that leased a building, for $300,000 over nearly 10 years, from Mr. Menendez while, as a House member, he helped it win millions in federal financing. Mr. Kean has used the subpoenas to assert that Mr. Menendez is under criminal investigation, which Mr. Christie's office has never confirmed. Mr. Menendez denies that he is under investigation and says that the House Ethics Committee's legal counsel cleared the deal.

Questions About Contracts
 Mr. Menendez's involvement in the Bayonne project began in the mid-1990s, as he fought to save the base, which provided 2,500 jobs and was Bayonne's largest employer. Once that fight was lost, he began a new battle for federal financing necessary to transform the site into a thriving addition to the local economy -- including $11.6 million from the Army for environmental cleanup, $7 million in Defense Department funds to stabilize the shoreline, and $3.2 million for road improvements to make the area more accessible to the New Jersey Turnpike. 
 Project officials say that Mr. Menendez had no role in awarding contracts and that without his support the development would never have gotten off the ground.
 But the board created to oversee the project, the Bayonne Local Redevelopment Authority, was appointed by one of his allies, Mayor Joseph V. Doria Jr. The selection process for a developer -- which was based not on price but on the subjective assessment of the redevelopment authority -- was also led by people who are Menendez allies.
 And the redevelopment authority's first executive director was Nicholas A. Chiaravalloti, a lawyer who had once worked in Mr. Scarinci's office. After assembling the contract specifications for the project, Mr. Chiaravalloti left in late 2002 to accept a job on Mr. Menendez's Congressional staff.
 Dozens of companies expressed interest in the development, and two submitted detailed written proposals. The new executive director, Nancy Kist, who had worked as Mr. Doria's legal counsel before being appointed to the authority, said she forwarded both proposals to the board.
 But at least one board member remembers seeing only the plan submitted by Fidelco Bayonne Realty -- Mr. Scarinci's client. Two principals of the second group, George Figliolia, president of BG Builders, and Angelo Cali, a co-owner in Cali Futures, said they were never asked to give a presentation.
 Maria Karczewski, who served on the seven-member board from 2002 until this January, said the Fidelco offer was the only one presented, though she said she did not believe Mr. Menendez had an influence on that decision. Three other board members said they recalled a presentation by Fidelco but could not recall whether they had seen the second one. 
 In public hearings, Ms. Kist urged the board to accept Fidelco's proposal because it included movie and television production facilities as well as housing, and also gave local officials a voice in shaping the project.
 But some city officials said that once Fidelco hired Mr. Scarinci, it was clear who would get the contract.
 ''People knew that Menendez was running the show because he brought all the federal money,'' said City Councilman Anthony Chiappone, a rival of Mr. Doria who said he is frustrated that he and others have been excluded from the decision-making process. ''And everyone in Hudson County politics know that Scarinci is his No. 1 guy, so any contractor who hires him gets treated like they have Menendez's seal of approval.''
 Steve Kalafer, a principal in Fidelco, said he hired Mr. Scarinci's firm because it had a long track record of getting waterfront development projects through Hudson County's maze of legal and governmental regulations.
 ''In every community there's one firm that has the experience and credibility with the local governing agencies to get projects done,'' he said. ''I didn't bother to interview any other firm because I didn't want to try and reinvent the wheel.'' 
 Mr. Kalafer said that Fidelco's decision to bring Mr. Menendez's former campaign treasurer, Carl Goldberg, into the project as a partner in 2005 was based on his track record as a developer rather than any political connections. He said that Mr. Menendez played no role in Fidelco's decision to hire Mr. Scarinci or team up with Mr. Goldberg.
 ''Other than a smile and an occasional passing comment like, 'how's the project going?' I've never had any discussions with the senator about it,'' Mr. Kalafer said.
 Royal Caribbean Cruises, one of the development's first tenants, hired a former Menendez staffer and fund-raiser, Kay LiCausi, who was vice chairwoman of the Hudson County Democratic Organization, to lobby for state and federal support. 
 Ms. LiCausi left her job on Mr. Menendez's staff in 2002, but she has maintained a close relationship with the congressman, who has acknowledged helping her get more than $200,000 in lobbying work for campaign committees over which he controlled or had strong influence. He has also recommended her for other lobbying work, which he compared to writing a reference letter for any deserving former employee. 
 In August 2004, just months after Royal Caribbean hired her, paying her more than $180,000 over the next two years, Mr. Menendez announced the first of two appropriations totaling $9.5 million to repair shoreline and extend a berth for the company's huge cruise ships. 
 Mr. Menendez said in an interview last week that Ms. LiCausi's role with the firm did not affect his actions, and that he did not consider it a conflict of interest to be obtaining tax dollars for companies who hire his own fund-raisers as lobbyists.
 ''If these people, these companies have success, that's their own initiative,'' he said, adding that several of the contractors involved in the project have never contributed to him or hired any of his supporters.
 Royal Caribbean also hired Dennis Enright, a top contributor to Mr. Menendez, to underwrite a $16.5 million bond issue to help pay for terminal repairs.
 A Royal Caribbean spokesman said the company never discussed the hires with Mr. Menendez, and that Ms. LiCausi and Mr. Enright were chosen because they were the best people for the job. Ms. LiCausi and Mr. Enright did not return repeated phone calls seeking comment for this article. 
 Mr. Menendez says that he is being held to a different standard because of where he comes from, saying that Mr. Kean has accepted campaign contributions from government contractors, and asserting that his opponent would never have received his first Assembly and State Senate appointments without his family's considerable ''political muscle.'' 
 ''You do that when you come from Hudson County, it's called bossism,'' Mr. Menendez said. ''But I guess when you come from my opponent's background, it's just leadership.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A new development is to be built along this stretch of waterfront in Bayonne, N.J. Some of the supporters of Mr. Menendez have obtained work in connection with the project, but he says he played no role in securing any of those contracts. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
DONALD SCARINCI -- A developer of the Bayonne project hired Mr. Scarinci, a Menendez confidant, to lobby for it. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
CARL GOLDBERG -- Mr. Goldberg, a former Menendez campaign treasurer, was made a partner by a developer of the Bayonne site. (Photo by Brian Branch-Price/Associated Press)
KAY LICAUSI -- A former member of the Menendez Congressional staff, Ms. LiCausi received lobbying work for the Bayonne project. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
JOSEPH DORIA -- A Menendez ally, Mr. Doria, Bayonne's mayor, appointed the board overseeing the project. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Mr. Menendez in 1992 in Union City, the city where he grew up. He says he is proud of the way he fought his way up the ladder. (Photo by William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
ROBERT MENENDEZ -- He secured $30 million in financing for the project as seed money. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. 32)
 Robert Menendez, praised for bringing projects home, has also been accused of cronyism. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); TERRORISM (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Elections; Election Issues; Ethics; Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (94%) David Kocieniewski; Ray Rivera; Robert (Sen) Menendez; Thomas H Jr (Sen) Kean

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey; Bayonne (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



717 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Novice Stands Her Ground On Veterans' Turf in Alaska

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: WASILLA, Alaska 

 BODY:
Voters have not elected a woman as governor of Alaska in 47 years of statehood, and just a few months ago, before she trounced Gov. Frank Murkowski in the Republican primary, Sarah Palin was hardly known outside this growing suburb of Anchorage.
 Now Ms. Palin, 42, has a sizable lead in most polls over Tony Knowles, a former Democratic governor who has survived in a conservative state by working closely with the powerful oil industry and cultivating ties across party lines. 
Her secret?
 ''She's a suburban mom,'' said Dan Newman, the pastor of Wasilla Christian Fellowship, one of several evangelical churches here, and a Palin supporter. ''It's almost the opposite of what you'd expect from Alaska.''
 Ms. Palin, the former mayor of Wasilla, stands out in a state that has seen few fresh faces in politics. She is untainted by government scandal and unburdened by political debt. She is a conservative Christian who opposes abortion. She runs marathons. She fishes. She hunts. 
 ''We always have a choice,'' Ms. Palin, who was an infant when her family moved to Alaska so her father could take a job teaching school, said in an interview. ''We can go backwards and be real negative or we can go forward and be positive.''
 Still, political analysts say Ms. Palin is not a lock to win. 
 Mr. Knowles has been able to keep the race competitive, in part by questioning whether Ms. Palin has the experience to lead a state where voters measure politicians on issues as wide-ranging as energy exploration, aerial wolf hunting and subsistence fishing in the arctic bush. 
 Mr. Knowles, 63, tries to sell his experience, having served eight years in the governor's office in Juneau, leaving in 2002 because of term limits. He also casts Ms. Palin as provincial. 
 More specifically, Mr. Knowles has suggested that Ms. Palin lacks the backbone and skills to negotiate with oil companies to build a new natural gas pipeline, something they agree is critical for the state economy as oil production declines on the North Slope. About 85 percent of the state's general revenue comes from taxes on the oil industry and many people view the new gas pipeline as Alaska's next natural resource boom.
 Ms. Palin is portraying herself as a needed outside agent of change at a time when the Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating links between Republican leaders in the Legislature and a major player in the oil industry. The tactic worked well in the August primary, with only 19 percent of voters supporting Governor Murkowski's bid for a second term.
 Two of the three members of the state's Congressional delegation, Senator Ted Stevens and Representative Don Young, have been in office for a total of 71 years. The third, Senator Lisa Murkowski, has been in office since 2002 in the seat her father held for 22 years before that.
 Ms. Palin's rise to prominence has come in part by turning the spotlight on the failings of her party. She accused one of her fellow members of the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission of misusing his office to do political work. 
 Some of the accusations proved true, but Ms. Palin was striking close to home. The person she accused was Randy Ruedrich, the chairman of the state Republican Party. 
 Mr. Ruedrich, who says he and the party are actively supporting Ms. Palin in the election, has refused her suggestion that he should resign.
 ''When Ms. Palin becomes governor she will be a member of my 90-member executive committee,'' Mr. Ruedrich said in an interview. ''I have one vote and she has one vote in that 90-member body.''
 Adding to the party tension is the candidacy of Andrew Halcro, who was a Republican during his two terms in the State House and is running for governor as an independent. The three candidates have appeared together frequently in forums and debates around the state. While Mr. Halcro, 42, trails far behind the others, he receives coverage in the news media, and opinions differ on whether he will draw more voters from Ms. Palin or Mr. Knowles.
 Dreams of a new economic boom in natural gas development have dominated the race for all three candidates.
 Mr. Knowles talks confidently about the benefits of squeezing as much as 100 trillion cubic feet of natural gas deposits from the North Slope through a 48-inch pipeline for decades into the future. He says the project, estimated to cost more than $20 billion, could give the rest of Alaska's economy time to diversify, a long-sought goal many say was overlooked during the oil rush of the 1970s and 1980s.
 Mr. Knowles said the gas pipeline, which could take 10 years just to build, would provide money to improve state education. Noting a rise in average temperature in the state, he also said Alaska could position itself as ''a research center for climate change and how to deal with it.'' 
 Some economists have said that the state has already increased the tourism and cargo shipping industries, and they say that a gas pipeline, while a boost for the state, would not have the same kind of impact as the Trans-Alaska oil pipeline. 
 ''I'm not going to say that booms and busts are gone forever, but we're a little less susceptible now,'' said Neal Fried, an economist with the Alaska Department of Labor.
 Still, nearly every Alaska resident recently received an annual dividend check from oil production. This year the amount was $1,106.96, and the belief that the state's natural resources will remain its economic backbone is deeply held, whether the resource was gold a century ago or gas in the future.
 The gas pipeline seems to take on particular urgency in an election year, just as it did four years ago when Governor Murkowski, then a senator, returned from Washington. He has worked for more than two years but failed to strike a deal.
 Ms. Palin, like Mr. Knowles, said she wanted the state to expand negotiations beyond BP, Exxon Mobil and Conoco Phillips, the three oil companies with which Governor Murkowski has been negotiating. 
 But Ms. Palin also recalled that the pipeline was a topic of discussion when she was a child and said that Mr. Knowles is being ''disingenuous'' when he says urgently that he wants pipeline proposals on his desk in the governor's office by Jan. 31, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Democratic candidate, Tony Knowles, left, has questioned whether Ms. Palin has enough experience.
 Sarah Palin, a Republican who is leading in most polls, with a high school student after a debate on Oct. 3. (Photographs by Joshua Borough for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); RELIGION (75%); SCANDALS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (71%); ETHICS (68%); MARATHONS (67%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); ABORTION (53%) Elections; Election Issues; Primaries; Governors (US); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; Legislatures and Parliaments; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) Federal Bureau of Investigation 

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (94%); LISA MURKOWSKI (79%); TED STEVENS (58%); DON YOUNG (58%) William Yardley; Sarah Palin; Frank (Gov) Murkowski; Tony Knowles

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (78%) Alaska; Alaska

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



718 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Political Theater and the Real Rick Santorum

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Every poll suggests that Rick Santorum will lose his race to return to the U.S. Senate. That's probably good news in Pennsylvania's bobo suburbs, where folks regard Santorum as an ideological misfit and a social blight. But it's certainly bad for poor people around the world. 
 For there has been at least one constant in Washington over the past 12 years: almost every time a serious piece of antipoverty legislation surfaces in Congress, Rick Santorum is there playing a leadership role. 
 In the mid-1990s, he was a floor manager for welfare reform, the most successful piece of domestic legislation of the past 10 years. He then helped found the Renewal Alliance to help charitable groups with funding and parents with flextime legislation.
 More recently, he has pushed through a stream of legislation to help the underprivileged, often with Democratic partners. With Dick Durbin and Joe Biden, Santorum has sponsored a series of laws to fight global AIDS and offer third world debt relief. With Chuck Schumer and Harold Ford, he's pushed to offer savings accounts to children from low-income families. With John Kerry, he's proposed homeownership tax credits. With Chris Dodd, he backed legislation authorizing $860 million for autism research. With Joe Lieberman he pushed legislation to reward savings by low-income families.
 In addition, he's issued a torrent of proposals, many of which have become law: efforts to fight tuberculosis; to provide assistance to orphans and vulnerable children in developing countries; to provide housing for people with AIDS; to increase funding for Social Services Block Grants and organizations like Healthy Start and the Children's Aid Society; to finance community health centers; to combat genocide in Sudan.
 I could fill this column, if not this entire page, with a list of ideas, proposals and laws Santorum has poured out over the past dozen years. It's hard to think of another politician who has been so active and so productive on these issues.
 Like many people who admire his output, I disagree with Santorum on key matters like immigration, abortion, gay marriage. I'm often put off by his unnecessarily slashing style and his culture war rhetoric.
 But government is ultimately not about the theater or the light shows of public controversy, it's about legislation and results. And the substance of Santorum's work is impressive. Bono, who has worked closely with him over the years, got it right: ''I would suggest that Rick Santorum has a kind of Tourette's disease; he will always say the most unpopular thing. But on our issues, he has been a defender of the most vulnerable.''
 Santorum doesn't have the jocular manner of most politicians. His colleagues' eyes can glaze over as he lectures them on the need to, say, devote a week of Senate floor time to poverty. He's not the most social member of the club. Many politicians praise family values and seem to spend as little time as possible with their own families, but Santorum is at home almost constantly. And there is sometimes a humorlessness to his missionary zeal. 
 But no one can doubt his rigor. Jonathan Rauch of The National Journal wrote the smartest review of Santorum's book, ''It Takes a Family.'' Rauch noted that while Goldwaterite conservatives see the individual as the essential unit of society, Santorum sees the family as the essential unit.
 Rauch observed, ''Where Goldwater denounced collectivism as the enemy of the individual, Santorum denounces individualism as the enemy of the family.'' That belief has led Santorum in interesting and sometimes problematical directions, but the argument itself is a serious one. His discussion of the philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre, for example, is as sophisticated as anything in Barack Obama's recent book. If Santorum were pro-choice, he'd be a media star and a campus hero.
 The bottom line is this: If serious antipoverty work is going to be done, it's going to emerge from a coalition of liberals and religious conservatives. Without Santorum, that's less likely to happen. If senators are going to be honestly appraised, it's going to require commentators who can look beyond the theater of public controversy and at least pretend to care about actual legislation. Santorum has never gotten a fair shake from the media. 
 And so after Election Day, the underprivileged will probably have lost one of their least cuddly but most effective champions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); AIDS & HIV (88%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ORPHANS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (69%); FLEXTIME (69%); CHARITIES (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); MARRIAGE (66%); ABORTION (63%); AUTISM (51%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); GENOCIDE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Elections; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); BONO (51%) David Brooks; Rick (Sen) Santorum

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (79%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006



719 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: On Dangerous Footing in Iraq, Where Dancing Is a Courageous Act 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Madeeh Qasim and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times in Baghdad contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
The members of the national dance troupe of Iraq are performers without an audience. They rehearse daily, but hardly ever put on a show. 
 Yet each turn of the hip and dip at the waist in their choreographed pieces has become weighted with a dangerous new reality, even as they wait for the chaos around them to subside so they can perform again. In today's Iraq, with conservative religious parties and radical militias exerting growing influence over every aspect of life, even dancing is an act of bravery.
''Society is overwhelmed by these religious ideologies,'' said Tariq Ibrahim, a male dancer in the Baghdad troupe, the Iraqi National Folklore Group. ''Now a woman on the street without a head scarf attracts attention. What about a woman onstage dancing?''
 Together they are a band of 10 women and 15 men from varied religious backgrounds. Once they toured the world together. Today they are simply trying to survive, hoping one day to thrive again as a troupe. But the religiosity sweeping Iraq does not bode well for their future. 
 Female participation in folk dancing is considered haram, or forbidden, in Islam. Ayatollah al-Sistani, the leading Shiite cleric in Iraq, has issued strict guidelines against dancing in various situations. The country's Shiite-led government, the dancers said, is naturally trying to marginalize them.
 ''Religion in its essence does not match with art,'' said Fouad Thanoon, the group's director and lead choreographer. ''So when religion and government come together, that will affect art very much.'' 
 The group has more immediate worries about extremists. Recently one of its members, Bushra Yousif, 21, a petite woman with delicate features who has been with the group for six years, received a note at home warning her to leave within 48 hours. A bullet was included in the envelope.
 She was probably singled out because of her profession, she said, but she will continue to attend rehearsals every day. She loves dancing too much, she said describing it as the highest form of art to ''deliver a message through your body.'' 
 ''Dying for this group would be like being martyred,'' she said, adding that it is a risk she accepts.
 The group, which began in 1971, is dedicated to preserving the folk-dancing heritage of Iraq, performing traditional dances drawn from across that country's history and geography. The troupe's first two decades were golden years, when dancers trained with master instructors from overseas and frequently went on international tours. In 1980 the dancers performed at the United Nations in New York and visited Paris. They have gone to Italy, Japan and China -- 60 countries in all -- and won numerous prizes along the way.
 The economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations in the early 1990s brought most of that to a halt. But just a year before the American-led invasion in 2003, the group enjoyed a rebirth with a burst of freedom under Saddam Hussein's government, performing almost every week here. 
 ''The audiences were huge,'' Mr. Thanoon, the group's director said. ''The theaters were overbooked.''
 But the group has been in suspended animation since the invasion began. It has performed just four times in Iraq and made two brief trips to Jordan and Dubai since 2003. The violence that surrounds it makes holding performances impossible.
 ''It is absurd,'' Mr. Ibrahim said. ''It is not logical to have a performance group that only practices.''
 Maysoun al-Damalouji, an outspoken secular member of Parliament who was the Iraqi government's senior deputy minister of culture until March, said she had worried about being able to protect the dancers, as well as others involved in artistic endeavors that were objectionable to certain religious groups. 
 ''The dancers were not the only ones,'' she said. ''We were worried about having fashion shows because we had to protect the models. We found we couldn't really do that. The best way of protecting them was not to have them shown in public.''
 The dance troupe had mainly supported itself with ticket sales before the fall of Mr. Hussein's government, but when performances ended that became impossible. The current government has not compensated for that loss, the dancers said. They receive tiny stipends, amounting to about $140 a month, but even that is not guaranteed. The money often does not come and is usually barely enough to cover each dancer's rent. Because the dancers rehearse every day from 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., it is almost impossible for them to get second jobs.
 The present government, controlled by conservative religious parties, cares little for the arts, Ms. al-Damalouji said, so it is not inclined to support groups like the dance troupe. 
 ''Iraq is without a doubt an Islamic society, but Islam is not our only culture,'' she said. ''All the other cultures are being denied by this government. There is an attempt to change Iraqi culture in general.''
 In this climate the dancers said they must censor themselves. The group recently played a small role in a theatrical production in support of the country's national reconciliation plan, put on for some employees of the Ministry of Culture, but Mr. Thanoon advised his dancers, for their own sake, to minimize any shaking of their hips or shoulders. The result was a rigid routine that seemed more martial than elegant.
 ''It should be like this,'' Liqaa Shukr said, demonstrating with plenty of gyrating flourish. ''Instead it is like this,'' she said, switching to the languid movements they wound up performing.
 Certain folk dances have been eliminated completely from the group's repertory for performances inside Iraq because they might be considered too provocative.
 ''We need to match what's going on now, not stand out,'' said Najwa Subhi, another female dancer. 
 Most of the women in the group go to elaborate lengths to hide their occupation from their neighbors, even though some of their faces are well known in Iraq from their performances on television under the old government. 
 Ms. Subhi, who lives in a mostly Shiite neighborhood dominated by militiamen, said she told her neighbors that she had quit her dancing and was working as a receptionist. She told them that even Hannah Abdullah, one of the group's founders and Iraq's best-known dancer, had retired.
 ''I spread this idea that we are no longer dancing,'' she said.
 On a recent trip to Jordan for a cultural festival, she had her husband load her luggage in the car in the middle of the night. Even her husband's family did not know that she was going to perform. She told them she was visiting her brother in Kirkuk. 
 Rana Anwar, who successfully auditioned for a spot in the troupe three months ago, has let her neighbors and friends continue to believe that she is still a student at a tourism institute in Baghdad. 
 ''It is very hard with what's going on to become a dancer,'' she said. ''But my main goal is to show Iraq is not a backward country. Iraqi people like to dance, they like to sing.''
 So the dancers continue to practice daily in front of empty seats at the National Theater in central Baghdad. The dilapidated hall has become their sanctuary from the country's tumult.
 Dumoaa Jamal was with the group for 10 years, but her uncle forced her to quit after the invasion because he deemed it too dangerous. But she returned three months ago, and tries to allay his fears by making sure she comes to rehearsals dressed in inconspicuous clothing and a head scarf hiding her long flowing hair.
 ''I wish it could be 24 hours a day,'' she said about the group's rehearsals. ''When I enter the theater, it is as if everything from outside is gone. It is as if I have entered a different world.''
 She feels like a bird on stage, she said. Later, when she has donned her head scarf, scrubbed the makeup from her face and stepped outside, reality returns. There is no more dancing, only walking as invisibly as possible.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Iraqi National Folklore Group, which has performed in 60 countries, now rarely does more than rehearse to empty seats in the dilapidated National Theater in Baghdad. (Photographs by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Dancers earn about $140 a month, barely enough to cover rent.
 In a climate where it is forbidden for women to dance in many situations, the Iraqi National Folklore Group censors itself for self-preservation. (Photographs by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); DANCE (92%); DANCERS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); HISTORY (69%); FOLKLORE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%) Dancing; Islam

ORGANIZATION: National Dance Troupe of Iraq

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (50%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



720 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The System's Broken

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Greencastle, Ind. 

 BODY:
The middle-aged woman filling her gas tank on a day of endless rain laughed when a reporter asked her about the coming elections. ''Politics,'' she said, ''are for silly people. Those ads come on television and I reach for the remote.''
 I asked if she was planning to vote on Nov. 7. 
''No,'' she said. ''That stuff really turns me off.''
 If you pay close attention to the news and then go out and talk to ordinary people, it's hard not to come away with the feeling that the system of politics and government in the U.S. is broken. I spent the past week talking to residents in Chicago, southern Michigan and Indiana. No one was happy about the direction the country has taken, but not even the most faithful voters were confident that their ballot would make any substantial difference.
 ''I vote,'' said Angela Buehl, who lives in a suburb of Indianapolis, ''but I don't think anybody in Washington is listening to me.'' She mimicked talking into a telephone: ''Hello Hello ?''
 The politicians, special interests and the media are in a state of high excitement over next week's midterm elections. They are addicted to the blood sport of politics, and this is a championship encounter. But that excitement contrasts with what seems to be an increasing sense of disenchantment and unease that ordinary Americans are feeling when it comes to national politics and government. For far too many of them, the government in Washington is remote, unresponsive and ineffective.
 Voters and nonvoters alike expressed frustration with the fact that we are stuck in a war in Iraq that hardly anyone still supports but no one in government knows how to end. 
 Several people mentioned that their families were struggling financially at a time when the stock market had soared to all-time highs and the Bush administration was crowing about how well the economy was doing.
 Nearly all said they were repelled by the relentless barrage of tasteless and idiotic campaign commercials. ''Talk to me,'' said a woman in Mishawaka, Ind. ''Don't assume I'm an imbecile.''
 A pair of front-page articles in The Times last week showed the stark contrast in the way that insiders and outsiders view the off-year elections. Corporations, reacting to the possibility that the Republicans might lose control of one or both houses of Congress, are hedging their bets by pumping up campaign donations to Democratic candidates. One way or another, they will be in the loop. That story ran on Saturday.
 A day earlier, The Times reported on Democratic concerns that black voters, disillusioned by voter suppression efforts and a pervasive belief that their votes will not be properly counted, may not turn out in the numbers that the party was hoping for.
 The system is broken. Most politicians would rather sacrifice their first born than tell voters the honest truth about tough issues. Big money and gerrymandering have placed government out of the reach of most Americans. While some changes in the House are expected this year, the Brookings Institution and the Cato Institute tell us (in a joint report) that since 1998, House incumbents have won more than 98 percent of their re-election races.
 Millions of thoughtful Americans have become so estranged from the political process that they've tuned out entirely. Voters hungry for a serious discussion of complex issues are fed a steady diet of ideological talking heads hurling insults in one- or two-minute television segments.
 DePauw University held a two-day conference last week on issues confronting the U.S. I was struck by the extent to which the people who attended the forums were interested in seeking out practical, nonpartisan, nonideological solutions to the wide range of problems discussed.
 The frustration with the current state of government and politics was palpable. One man, Ned Lamkin, asked me if it wouldn't be a good idea to create some sort of national forum for a serious extended discussion of ways to fix, or at least improve, the system. He's on to something. Among other things, I'd love to see a nonpartisan series of high-profile, nationally televised town hall meetings that would explore ways of making government and politics fairer, more open and more responsive to the will of the people.
 American-style democracy needs to be energized, revitalized. The people currently in charge are not up to the task. It's time to bring the intelligence, creativity and energy of the broader population into the quest for constructive change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SUBURBS (69%) Election Issues; Public Opinion; Political Advertising

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) INDIANA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



721 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, System to Help Poorest Schools Faces Criticism

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: GARFIELD, N.J. 

 BODY:
The residents of this tumbledown city of 30,000 routinely voted down school budgets over the years, leaving their schools so hard up by the early 1990s that broken windows were patched with cardboard and principals did their own typing because they could not afford secretaries. 
 Though school taxes remain relatively low, the 5,000 students in this city of former woolen mills and soda factories in Bergen County now enjoy many of the privileges of much wealthier suburban districts: year-round preschool, modern computer labs and a new $40 million middle school -- all of it paid for by the state of New Jersey.
Garfield is a so-called Abbott school district, one of 31 poor districts that have received a total of $35 billion in state aid since 1997 as part of an ambitious court-ordered social experiment to narrow the achievement gap between rich and poor students, whites and minorities. In a decision that set a precedent for school equality cases nationwide, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that the poorest urban school districts should be given the resources to spend as much on their students as the wealthiest suburban districts do. 
 Now a growing number of New Jersey elected officials, educators and parents are calling for sweeping changes to this school financing system, saying that it has wasted millions of taxpayer dollars in the Abbott districts. For every success story like Garfield, where fourth-grade test scores have risen to the state average, there are chronic problems, like those in Newark, Camden and Asbury Park. 
 Today, the Abbott districts serve 286,500 children in kindergarten through 12th grade -- about 21 percent of the state's students -- but get $4.2 billion a year in state aid, slightly more than half of all the state money given to New Jersey's 616 school districts. The Abbotts are among the highest-spending school districts in the state, averaging $14,038 per student compared with $10,509 statewide. The vast majority of districts that fall between richest and poorest say they are increasingly bearing the burden of the Abbotts' getting so much of the money.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine has made school financing a priority in his efforts to reduce property taxes, and next month the State Legislature is expected to propose a new school aid formula that will seek to distribute aid to all school districts based on their numbers of poor students, rather than focusing on just 31 districts in what has been called an all-or-nothing approach. The Abbott districts and their advocates have vowed to fight any reduction in state aid, signaling another round of court battles.
 In the meantime, state education officials plan to audit all 31 Abbotts in the next year after finding that the highest-spending districts were making the fewest gains. Asbury Park spent the most, $18,661 per student, in the 2004-5 school year. Still, slightly fewer than half the district's fourth-grade students were proficient in state language arts and math tests in 2005. ''What we know is lots of money has been spent, and in some places, there is very little to show,'' said Lucille E. Davy, the education commissioner.
 For their part, the Abbott districts have criticized what they see as a bureaucratic system that undermines local authority and forces them to adopt programs that they do not need. For instance, Patrick Gagliardi, the Hoboken superintendent, said that he is required to provide full-day preschool to every 3- and 4-year-old child in his district, regardless of income, a mandate that now benefits many affluent families. ''The court intended to help poor people, not the wealthy,'' he said. ''Now it's costing the state more money, and it's inefficient and flawed.'' 
 The debate over the Abbott districts has spread outside urban centers to affluent suburban communities from Ridgewood to Cherry Hill, where local officials have repeatedly raised taxes and slashed school budgets to offset their own dwindling share of state aid. Many of them say the huge amounts of money given to Abbott schools versus non-Abbott schools has polarized parents and teachers between school districts 
 ''We resent a system that has not provided adequately for our children,'' said Elisabeth Ginsburg, the Board of Education president in Glen Ridge, where less than 5 percent of the $23.5 million school district budget is covered by state aid.
 Critics often single out Hoboken as an example of an Abbott district that should no longer be one, since rapid development has drawn affluent newcomers. Hoboken actually gets far less state aid than other urban areas because it already spent more on its students than other Abbotts. Hoboken gets about $12.2 million a year, but as an Abbott, its plans for a new $25 million high school would be fully subsidized by the state.
 In this year's budget, state education officials withheld a total of $23 million from eight Abbott districts, including Garfield, where property values have risen but local taxes remain relatively low, forcing them to raise local taxes and shoulder more of their school costs. Republican lawmakers have also introduced a bill that would phase out 13 Abbott districts that have thrived economically in recent years.
 ''Why should we continue to support them?'' asked Assemblyman Joseph R. Malone III, a former school administrator who has sponsored the bill. ''It's like saying to somebody who's on welfare: 'Stay on welfare and receive the benefits even if you're a millionaire now.' '' 
 The Abbott districts grew out of a 1981 lawsuit, Abbott v. Burke, which claimed that the state had failed to remedy disparities between rich and poor school districts. In a series of decisions spanning two decades, the state's highest court relied on an 1875 amendment to the New Jersey Constitution requiring the Legislature to establish a system of ''thorough and efficient'' education for every child. It struck down the school financing system as unconstitutional in 1990, saying that it deprived poor urban districts of resources, and ordered lawmakers to address the problem.
 After years of delays, the state court ruled in 1997 that the poorest urban districts should spend as much on their students as the wealthiest suburban districts. That exceeded the standard in other states to simply match the average state spending per student. The court designated 28 Abbott districts based on a state list of poor urban communities, and the Legislature added two more districts a year later. A third, Salem City, was included by lawmakers in 2004 after it sued to become an Abbott district.
 Paul Tractenberg, a professor at Rutgers Law School in Newark who has advocated on behalf of the Abbotts, said the court ordered the current school financing system for lack of a better alternative, and largely left the future designation of Abbott districts to state legislators and education officials. He supports efforts to come up with a new school aid formula, saying, ''We're spending the right amount in the Abbott districts; the problem is we're not spending enough in the other poor districts.'' 
 Assemblyman Bill Baroni, a Republican who does not represent an Abbott district, says that changing the Abbott system is such a politically divided issue that the Legislature has been generally reluctant to act. ''Every time there is talk of removing a school district,'' he said, ''instantly massive political opposition forms in that district.''
 But as New Jersey has struggled with fiscal problems, the Abbotts have come under increasing pressure to justify their high cost. The results are mixed across districts, but over all, the Abbotts have improved their test scores, particularly in the lower grades. For instance, 66 percent of Abbott students were proficient in the fourth-grade language arts test in 2005, compared with 29.5 percent in 1999, but that still falls below the 85.5 percent of proficient students in non-Abbott districts. The gap is larger on the math test and among students in higher grades.
 Ellen Frede, co-director of the National Institute for Early Education Research, said that larger gains would come as Abbott districts built on their strong preschool programs. In a 2005 report based on testing in the 15 largest Abbotts, her group found that students were better prepared for kindergarten. ''The overwhelming data is this is a good use of state taxpayer money,'' she said.
 But critics of the Abbotts say they have grown impatient with the problems in some districts. This month, a state fiscal monitor was appointed to oversee the scandal-ridden Camden district, where the superintendent, Annette Knox, resigned in June amid investigations into bonuses that she received. The district spent $15,420 per student in the 2004-5 school year, though its test scores lag behind the other Abbott districts.
 Bart Leff, a spokesman for the Camden schools, said the district's 15,500 students are mostly poor minorities who have ''significantly more need for the money'' than those in better-off communities. ''We are an urban school district in a poverty-stricken city,'' he said.
 In contrast, the Abbott money has ushered in major changes in Garfield, reinvigorating the schools after decades of neglect and decline. In 2005, 79.9 percent of the district's fourth-grade students were proficient in the language arts test, just below the statewide average of 81.2 percent. Garfield students performed even better in math, with 81.8 percent proficient compared with 80.2 percent statewide.
 Nearly two-thirds of the district's $66 million annual budget, or $41.7 million, is covered by state aid; the district has received a total of $370.7 million since 1997. The rest is raised largely through local taxes. Though property values have climbed in recent years, school officials said that many residents are senior citizens and recent immigrants who can ill afford any increases.
 In the past three years, residents have twice rejected the school budget, including the one for the current school year. Under state law, Garfield city officials then propose cuts to the budget, but as an Abbott district, the total budget cannot fall below the previous year's spending level. The budget rose by $915,000 this year after state education officials forced the city to raise taxes.
 Nicholas L. Perrapato, the superintendent, said the district has come to rely on the Abbott money. He said it has allowed them to hire more teachers, reduce class sizes, and update textbooks and curriculums. (Second graders now learn PowerPoint.) It has meant that two new schools could be built -- the first in nearly 50 years -- and that students could get a taste of unheard-of luxuries such as teams for swimming, tennis and volleyball. 
 ''Without the money, we'd be in dire straits,'' Mr. Perrapato said. ''If they de-Abbotize us, you're looking at rolling up the carpets because the people here would never be able to afford to keep the programs we have in place.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A kindergarten classroom in Garfield, N.J., one of the school districts that has benefited from an infusion of state money. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 State money allowed Garfield, N.J., to afford a new middle school, as well as amenities like modern computers and a year-round preschool. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBURBS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); TEXTILE MILLS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (56%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (54%) Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



722 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: For Science Academy, Move to World Trade Center Is Like Going Home

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
With no public fanfare but many design flourishes, the New York Academy of Sciences, the first tenant on a full floor of the new World Trade Center, is settling into its space. 
 The move to the 40th floor of 7 World Trade Center is a striking departure for the academy, which had long been in an Upper East Side mansion. But it is also a homecoming. The academy, a nonprofit membership organization, was founded two blocks away from its new home in 1817.
''This is a circle,'' said Hugh Hardy of H3 Hardy Collaboration Architecture, which designed the new space, working with a studio called 2x4.
 The academy's heritage is reflected in a 40-foot-long openwork screen in the reception area. It takes its form from the street patterns of downtown neighborhoods where the academy was located before going uptown to 2 East 63rd Street in 1949.
 Its 70 employees moved downtown late last month.
 Because a key purpose of the academy is to hold conferences, seminars and lectures, the heart of its headquarters is a 296-seat meeting room at a corner of the parallelogram-shaped building. The carpet pattern is a double helix. As in DNA.
 The academy also promotes the rights of scientists. That role is graphically represented in a 72-foot-long mural based on Joseph-Nicolas Robert-Fleury's 19th-century painting, ''Galileo Galilei in Front of the Inquisition of the Vatican.'' The image was stretched horizontally and is decipherable only when viewed at an angle.
 Though the academy is not the first tenant at 7 World Trade Center, it was the first to rent space directly overlooking ground zero.
 ''I am not aware, honestly, of a single person who was frightened by the idea,'' Ellis Rubinstein, the president, said. 
 Wendy Caruso, the academy's human resources director, said four employees resigned before the move. They did not cite the location as a reason, she said, though it may have been involved. ''No one yet has said they find it uncomfortable,'' Ms. Caruso said. ''What seems to bug people is all the tourists taking pictures.''
 For now, the academy shares the 52-story tower with Ameriprise Financial; Silverstein Properties, the developers and owners of the building; and a studio for the architects designing Silverstein's other trade center buildings. Moody's Corporation; Mansueto Ventures, a publishing company; and Darby & Darby, a law firm, are to follow next year. The building is the first of what are to be five new trade center office towers, including the Freedom Tower.
 The academy's board was initially reluctant to sell the mansion and move to rented space, but was eventually won over. ''Economically, it's about equal for a space that's twice as big,'' said Thomas J. Kelly, the chief financial officer. Outfitting the new space cost about $9 million. The mansion sold for $31.25 million. Mr. Kelly would not disclose the rent.
 With digital recording and projection equipment built into its new home, the academy hopes to broaden its reach beyond anything possible in the warren of cramped, antiquated rooms it occupied uptown.
 ''We skipped the 20th century,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We went right from the 19th into the 21st.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Last week, visitors toured the New York Academy of Sciences' new home in 7 World Trade Center. The space overlooks ground zero, about two blocks from the academy's first location. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HIJACKING (79%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); PAINTING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (67%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); RELIGION (64%); PUBLISHING (50%) World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; Seven World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (62%); MOODY'S CORP (61%); MANSUETO VENTURES LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (93%) New York Academy of Sciences

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (62%); MCO (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (61%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



723 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: State Projects Budget Surplus 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York State is projected to end its 2006-7 fiscal year on March 31 with a $1.1 billion surplus, because of $700 million resulting from stronger economic growth and $400 million from lower spending than previously estimated, according to a midyear report to be released today by the state's Division of the Budget. Most of the surplus is to be divided among reserve funds. SEWELL CHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (84%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



724 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: World Series Leaves Lessons To Consider 

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
What we learned from the World Series: Pitchers can throw a baseball 60 feet 6 inches with great precision, but add a few feet, and they're recklessly inaccurate. 
 Four times Detroit pitchers failed to throw to first or third base accurately, and the errors resulted in unearned runs that, in turn, resulted in costly losses.
Something else we learned from the World Series: The St. Louis Cardinals will not start a dynasty with their conquest of the Tigers. 
 The Cardinals had the worst season record (83-78) of any World Series champion. As their manager, Tony La Russa, pointed out, they would probably have won more games had some of their players not been hurt late in the season, namely David Eckstein, Jim Edmonds and Jason Isringhausen. 
 But the Cardinals would not have won 100 games. With the team they had, they might not have won the National League Central title had the Cincinnati Reds not faltered. The Reds were a percentage point out of first place Aug. 24 but lost their next six games and 9 of the next 10, effectively finishing them as a contender.
 The Cardinals deserve credit for beating three teams in the postseason that were supposed to beat them. The Cardinals were given little or no chance against the Padres, the Mets and the Tigers, but they overcame them all, using the kind of pitching that wins postseason series.
 The biggest surprises were Jeff Weaver and Jeff Suppan, who between them have played for 11 teams, unable to pitch well enough to warrant steady employment. As much as they did for the Cardinals with their effective postseason pitching, they did for themselves because they can be free agents.
 Two other St. Louis starters -- Mark Mulder and Jason Marquis -- neither of whom was on the postseason roster, are also eligible for free agency. General Manager Walt Jocketty said last week that the Cardinals were waiting until they were finished playing to decide how they wanted to proceed. He said they would probably sign two of the four pitchers.
 Weaver and Suppan didn't hurt their chances of remaining with the team, if they want to. The two starters the Cardinals decide to sign will join Chris Carpenter and Anthony Reyes in the rotation next season. 
 The only player in the everyday lineup who can be a free agent is second baseman Ronnie Belliard, but the Cardinals have Aaron Miles to replace him if he leaves.
 The Cardinals figure to be the best team in their division next season, though the Reds could be a threat if their general manager, Wayne Krivsky, is as successful in his acquisitions during the off-season as he was the past year.
 But can St. Louis get to and win the World Series again? Unlikely, even though the Cardinals can't be easily dismissed because they have been a resilient franchise. The past seven seasons have produced seven different World Series champions, and the Cardinals are the only team besides the Yankees to have played in more than one of those Series.
 Parity is the reason generally cited for a different team winning each year, but this current period has a long way to go to match the previous period in which a different team won each year. From 1978 through 1990, 13 different teams won the World Series. Those 13 were half of the major league population in those years.
 No one attributed that development to parity, but parity is a popular word today because it justifies baseball's economic changes. Management people like to think that revenue sharing is working, giving poorer teams a chance to compete and even to contend.
 That may be so in some, or even many, instances, but in the case of the Tigers, it's more likely that 119 losses in 2003 embarrassed their owner, Mike Ilitch, into spending money to improve the team. It was after that humiliating season that the Tigers began their run of signing free agents by luring Ivan Rodriguez to Detroit.
 Not only did the Tigers lose many games, but they also lost fans, squandering the opportunity to attract crowds that their new ballpark gave them. Tigers attendance fell in each of the three seasons after the team's first at Comerica Park in 2000. 
 What the Tigers have demonstrated is that teams don't have to lose forever. Until this year, they had a franchise-record 12 successive losing seasons. People point to their 119-loss season only three years ago to show how far they came this year, but forgotten is their 71-91 record a year ago.
 The Tigers' $85 million payroll this year was 25 percent more than last year's $68 million and nearly 75 percent more than the $49 million payroll the year they lost 119.
 The Minnesota Twins, through judicious trading and good player development, and the Oakland Athletics, through shrewd player pickups, have won more often than the Tigers, with lower payrolls. But the Tigers have demonstrated that a little spending can go a long way.
 ''It's really been a combination because we've had trades and we've had young players come through our farm system, and of course we signed some free-agent players,'' General Manager Dave Dombrowski said. ''In today's game, you have to use all your avenues.''
 The Tigers just have to do one more thing. They have to teach their pitchers how to throw to first and third.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The On Baseball column on Monday about the lessons learned from the World Series won by the St. Louis Cardinals, the seventh different champion in seven years, misstated the number of different teams that won the title from 1978 to 1990. It was 12, not 13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%) Baseball; World Series

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%); NEW YORK METS (54%) St Louis Cardinals; Detroit Tigers

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



725 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: A Sheik's Thoroughbred Kingdom Grows on the Kentucky Bluegrass

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky. 

 BODY:
Every hardboot here who makes a living breeding and selling horses knows that Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum is the ruler of Dubai, a desert kingdom on the Persian Gulf, which he has transformed into a tourist and business capital.
 Most of them, however, know him as Sheik Mo, a horseman who for nearly 25 years has arrived each year at Blue Grass Airport by private jumbo jet and has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on horses.
Although the sheik and the company his family controls encountered security concerns and had to abandon an attempt to run six United States port operations in March, he is treated like a fellow horseman here in Lexington, home of his thriving racing and breeding business.
 In a relatively short time, Sheik Mohammed and members of his royal family have joined the ranks of the blue-blooded Phipps family and the more commercially driven Overbrook Farm as fabled names in horse racing in the United States. 
 On Saturday at the Breeders' Cup in Louisville, Ky., the Maktoums are expected to send out eight horses, all contenders, in four races. They are led by the 3-year-old sensation Bernardini, who has won six races in a row, including the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico and the Travers Stakes at Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
 They are as impressive a collection of horses as any owner has taken to the Breeders' Cup in its 22-year history, and could help the Maktoums capture as many as five Eclipse Awards, the Oscars of horse racing. Sheik Mohammed is in the running for his first Eclipse as the country's top horse owner.
 Out of equal parts self-interest and self-regard, quite a few denizens of central Kentucky will be rooting the sheik's horses home. Not only has he been the leading buyer at the September yearlings sales over the past eight years, spending $245.6 million, but he has also built a commercial breeding and racing business here that is poised to rule the sport the way the legendary Calumet Farm did in the 1940s and 1950s.
 ''If one September that big old plane wasn't at the airport, you would have a whole lot of hearts sinking around here,'' said Arthur Hancock III, who owns Stone Farm in Paris, Ky. He is a fourth-generation thoroughbred breeder from one of the Bluegrass's most famous families.
 ''Beyond that, he has proven over the years that he is a passionate and knowledgeable horseman,'' Hancock said. ''When the sheik comes here for the sales, he's out in the barns examining horses and unlike a lot of owners, he actually knows what he's looking at.''
 He moves among horsemen in jeans and a white T-shirt or windbreaker in the royal blue colors of his family's stable.
 ''I tried to win the Kentucky Derby buying European-type horses, and it did not work,'' Sheik Mohammed told reporters last month at the Keeneland sales, after spending $60 million on yearlings. ''So now we are doing it the right way. I am looking for the right horses. I see what American racing is about. So we learn, we learn every day.''
 In thoroughbred racing, Sheik Mohammed, 57, has combined one of his great interests with his burning ambition to turn Dubai into the Singapore of the Middle East, generating fascination and some criticism along the way.
 In an episode last year closest to his interest in racing, the State Department rebuked the United Arab Emirates, which includes Dubai, for allowing young children to be held in captivity and used as jockeys in camel races. In June, the State Department cited improvements but said it was still keeping watch. 
 The sheik has had much success in his business and racing endeavors. Since 1995, he or his brothers -- Sheik Hamdan and the late Sheik Maktoum -- have been at or near the top of the owners' standings in England with Godolphin stables. Godolphin is a sort of all-star team of horses owned by the Maktoum brothers. 
 By acknowledging that Dubai could not prosper on a diminishing oil reserve, the Maktoums set out more than 20 years ago to diversify the economy and become the financial capital of the United Arab Emirates, a federation of seven sheikdoms that won independence from Britain in 1971. 
 ''Horses and Dubai are his two loves,'' said John Ferguson, the sheik's bloodstock manager. ''He spends 98 percent of his time on Dubai, however, and 2 percent on horses. Godolphin has been the culmination of those two forces.''
 Godolphin, created in 1992, is based in Dubai to take advantage of a temperate winter climate and a state-of-the-art training center in preparing to compete in the most prestigious races around the world.
 This strategy has worked in Europe and Asia, but has met with mixed results in the United States, most notably in Sheik Mohammed's unsuccessful quest to win the Kentucky Derby.
 So the sheik took a deeper interest in Kentucky breeding and racing in the United States. In 2001, he bought Jonabell Farm and, after the death of his older brother Maktoum in January, incorporated Gainsborough Farm into what is now called Darley America. 
 Sheik Mohammed has 160 employees -- virtually all of them homegrown Kentuckians -- and 11 stallions, including Holy Bull, the 1994 Horse of the Year. By November, he will have 160 mares, and soon after their foals, gamboling on a sprawling 4,000 manicured acres of bluegrass. 
 With Bernardini, the sheik's new focus on the United States paid off immediately. Bernardini was bred in Kentucky; was entrusted to an American trainer, Tom Albertrani; and will be the favorite in the marquee race of the Breeders' Cup, the $5 million Classic.
 Bernardini, however, will have to dispatch Invasor, a colt that has won eight of his nine races. Invasor is owned by Sheik Hamdan, who is also a big-money spender at the sales and who has had a farm here since 1985.
 Bernardini's victories in this year's most lucrative races are the primary reason Darley is atop the American owners standings with nearly $5 million in purse winnings. Still, the Darley stable is deep and developing, having won 54 races and finishing in the money 56 percent of the time with 247 starters.
 In the $2 million Sprint, Henny Hughes is favored to win to conclude a perfect year and capture the Eclipse Award as champion sprinter. He is owned by Sheik Rashid, the 25-year-old son of Sheik Mohammed. 
 With commercial breeding operations and thousands of acres of land in seven countries from Europe to Australia to Japan, Sheik Mohammed's extraordinarily deep pockets have been taxed by his investment in horses. His associates argue, however, that it is money well spent when put in the context of the sheik's global vision for Dubai. 
 Among horsemen here, there is an adage: ''Be happy with the money, not with the horse.''
 In the sheik's case, however, the horsemen are happy with his horses.
 ''We've had a huge drain on our bloodlines between our great sires dying and being shipped overseas,'' said Rob Whitely, who breeds under the name Liberation Farm. ''He is bringing back some of that quality blood to America and we need it. We also need horses like Bernardini to stay here, and that is what looks like is going to happen.''

A Royal Flush
With eight starters scheduled to race in four races at the Breeders' Cup on Saturday, the Maktoum family are in position to capture five Eclipse Awards, including one for Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum as the top owner in the United States. Here are their best prospects for year-end championships.

Bernardini (Classic)
Owned by Sheik Mohammed, he has won six of seven races this year. With a victory in the $5 million Classic, he should clinch the Eclipse for top 3-year-old colt as well as Horse of the Year.

Invasor (Classic)
A 4-year-old owned by Sheik Hamdan, he will take on Bernardini. He has won eight of nine total races, and another victory could make him the top older male horse, as well as Horse of the Year.

Henny Hughes (Sprint)
Owned by Sheik Mohammed's son, the 25-year-old Sheik Rashid, the 3-year-old colt has won his last three races in stunning fashion and will earn the Eclipse in the Sprint division with a victory.

Librettist (Mile)
A 4-year-old owned by the family's Dubai-based Godolphin Stable, he will run in the Breeders' Cup Mile on turf. He has captured five of six races in Europe this year and, with a victory, will be a top contender for the Eclipse in the older Turf Male division.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheik Mohammed (pg. A1)
Rockport Harbor, which won five of the eight starts in his racing career, will begin breeding at Jonabell Farm next year.
 Jonabell Farm in Lexington, Ky., purchased in 2001 by Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, is expected to have 160 mares by next month. (Photographs by Michael Clevenger for The New York Times)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); HORSES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); TOURISM (57%) Horse Racing; Breeders' Cup World Thoroughbred Championships; Preakness Stakes; Travers Stakes (Horse Race); Breeding of Animals; Horse Racing

PERSON: Joe Drape; Mohammed Bin Rashid Al- (Sheik) Maktoum

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (97%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%) Dubai; Lexington (Ky); Louisville (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



726 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 400 words

 BODY:

DIAL M FOR MERGER -- The Federal Communications Commission could decide as soon as this week whether to approve the proposed $80 billion combination of AT&T and BellSouth. Then again, it could decide not to decide; the deal is on a meeting agenda for Friday, but the F.C.C. has postponed the decision more than once. At issue is whether the commissioners ought to impose any conditions on the deal, and, if so, what they should be. The transaction, which would bring under one corporate roof the dominant telephone companies in California, Texas, the Midwest and much of the South, has been approved by both companies' shareholders, state regulators and the Justice Department. 


WHAT'S UP WITH INFLATION? -- Many people would like to know more about inflation. They will be reading some clues on Monday, when the Commerce Department will offer figures for September on personal income, personal spending and the personal consumption expenditures deflator (derived from personal spending statistics excluding food and energy prices). In August, consumers held back, spending only 0.1 percent more than in July, the smallest month-to-month increase since November; analysts polled by Bloomberg predict that the figure for September will be higher, at 0.3 percent.

MORE MEASUREMENTS -- Other economic indicators expected this week: consumer confidence in the United States for October (Tuesday); construction spending for September, home sales for September, and vehicle sales for October (Wednesday); factory orders for September (Thursday); and the unemployment rate for October (Friday).

THE EARNINGS LINEUP -- It will be another lively -- or at least busy -- week in corporate earnings, heavy on telecommunications providers and entertainment companies. Among the big companies reporting will be BlackRock, Clear Channel Communications, Diebold, Humana, MetLife, Simon Property Group, Sysco and Verizon Communications (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Biogen, DreamWorks Animation, Eastman Kodak, Entergy, Hilton Hotels, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Loews, Molson Coors Brewing, PNC Financial Services Group, Procter & Gamble, Qwest Communications International, Valero Energy and Vonage Holdings (Tuesday); Allergan, Aon, Electronic Data Systems, MasterCard, Sunoco and Time Warner (Wednesday); CA Inc., CBS, Computer Sciences, CVS, MGM Mirage, Qualcomm and Whole Foods Market (Thursday); and Duke Energy (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (68%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (64%); HOTEL CHAINS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (64%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (64%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (64%); CA INC (63%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (63%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (57%); CENTURYLINK INC (57%); ENTERGY CORP (55%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (53%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (53%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (53%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (52%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (52%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (52%); ALLERGAN INC (52%); QUALCOMM INC (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (64%); ADM (NYSE) (64%); TAP (NYSE) (64%); CA (NASDAQ) (63%); MGM (NYSE) (63%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); VG (NYSE) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (57%); ETR (NYSE) (55%); DWA (NASDAQ) (53%); SPG (NYSE) (53%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (53%); WFM (NASDAQ) (52%); VLO (NYSE) (52%); AGN (NYSE) (52%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); PNC (NYSE) (52%); DUK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (64%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (64%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (64%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (64%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (64%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (64%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (64%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (64%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (64%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (64%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (64%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (64%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (53%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



727 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Where Everyone Loves to Love Chris

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
It was a scream heard all the way down the block on Decatur Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant. If you know TV, or if you know that Brooklyn neighborhood, you know it's a sweet stretch of well-tended homes and the setting for ''Everybody Hates Chris,'' the comedy series on the CW network inspired by the adolescent adventures of the comedian Chris Rock.
 The scream was for Tichina Arnold, who plays Rochelle, the no-nonsense mother on the show. Ms. Arnold had just wandered into Waterfalls, a restaurant near Mr. Rock's childhood home, serving Jamaican and American food, where she was exuberantly recognized by the owners. Close on her heels and prompting fresh squeals was Terry Crews, the actor who portrays Julius, Mr. Rock's penny-pinching, hard-working father.
 ''I love the show!'' shouted Danie Burris, 22, whose parents own the small restaurant. She and her sister Althea, 28, scurried to serve the TV couple two steaming lunch plates, one of curried chicken and one of oxtails. 
 ''Everybody Hates Chris'' tells the story of a black, working-class family during the early 1980s and Mr. Rock's adventures in being bused to a white school. Narrated by Mr. Rock, who is also its co-creator, it made its debut last fall to critical acclaim and high ratings. But this fall has brought lower ratings, which CW executives say has to do with factors other than quality. Not only was the show's original home, the UPN network, merged with WB to create the new CW, but initially the show was also moved from Thursday to Sunday nights.
 The show's Oct. 1 season premiere showed that it had slipped 72 percent among viewers 18 to 49 (it was seen by 2.44 million viewers in total) from its debut last season, its worst showing to date except for reruns. 
 This month the show was moved to Monday nights, along with three other comedy shows (''All of Us,'' ''Girlfriends'' and ''The Game''). The ratings on Oct. 16 surged to 3 million viewers, and the show had 3.19 million viewers for the Oct. 23 episode, according to Nielsen Media Research.
 '' 'Everybody Hates Chris' is an absolute crown jewel of a comedy, and we're committed to protecting and nurturing Chris Rock and Ali LeRoi's brilliant creation,'' Dawn Ostroff, president for entertainment at CW, said in a recent e-mail message. ''We feel that moving the show to Monday at 8 will, in the long run, strengthen the ratings and ensure a long, prosperous run on the CW.'' 
 Critics say that among the many charms of ''Chris'' is its authentic evocation of time and place, with its period music, clothes and cars. Filmed on a brownstone block on the Paramount lot in Los Angeles, the fictional Chris is bused to a middle school named Corleone Junior High in South Shore, a fictional Italian neighborhood. Those were the days before crack and before gentrification. 
 In real life Mr. Rock attended two predominantly white Brooklyn schools, Public School 277 in Gerritsen Beach, and Marine Park Junior High, and was bused beginning in grade school.
 ''One thing I distinctly remember is that the white kids called each other by their last names, in grade school,'' Mr. Rock said in a telephone interview. ''They all cursed. The bad black kids cursed, and the white kids cursed in general conversation. It was another world -- Italian, Irish. They pretty much picked on me and the Jews.''
 Ms. Arnold, small-boned and with a short, chic haircut, grew up in South Ozone Park, Queens, and is a busing veteran herself. But Mr. Crews, a 250-pound former N.F.L. linebacker, had never set foot in Brooklyn and wanted to check it out, accompanied by a reporter for his first visit. He and Ms. Arnold were in New York to promote the show's second season.
 ''It's more beautiful that I thought,'' Mr. Crews said. ''I thought I'd see bleakness. It's gorgeous.'' 
 The yellow brick house in which Mr. Rock grew up is still there, on a block where gentrification announces itself with small, printed notes stuck on mailboxes asking owners if they want to sell.
 Some neighbors who stopped to chat said they liked the show because they had grown up with Mr. Rock. 
 ''I lived across the street from him all his life,'' Dave Waters, still a Decatur Street resident, said. He had ambled over to shake hands with Ms. Arnold and Mr. Crews. ''He and my brother were best friends. I saved Chris's life four or five times,'' he said, mentioning various dust-ups with local roughnecks.
 ''I'm very proud of Chris,'' Mr. Waters said. ''Chris got a lot of his comedy from this block. Everybody on this block is funny.'' 
 Just as in the show, Mr. Rock's family rented out the top floor. The fictional Chris has a brother and a sister while Mr. Rock had six siblings. His father drove a truck for The Daily News and his mother worked with mentally handicapped people. 
 Their block was jokingly called ''Decatur Towers,'' and was ''the richest block in the ghetto'' Mr. Rock said. 
 ''I loved my block,'' Mr. Rock said. ''I had a good set of friends. We played stickball and football in the snow. My dreams weren't as grand as my life has become. My dream was just to have food delivered to my house.'' 
 Mr. Rock's family lost the house in the late '80s after his father died, he said. ''I could afford it now I suppose,'' he said. '' But it's not the buildings that matter. It's the people.'' 
 Ms. Arnold and Mr. Crews seemed to be having a fine time in Bed-Stuy on their visit, shaking hands with fans and posing with them for photographs. Both said they had the kind of working-class roots that ''Everybody Hates Chris''' celebrates. ''The TV family just clicked,'' Ms. Arnold, the 37-year-old mother of a young daughter, said. ''It was like we had the same memories.''
 Ms. Arnold (who played Pam on the Fox series ''Martin'') was bused to school in Flushing, where she thrived and was recognized for her singing talent. ''I got my Equity card when I was 12,'' she said. ''I never met Chris's mom, but she likes the show. I pull from my mom for the character -- a woman doing her best to keep her family together. Our show takes place during a time when there were no time-outs, there were spankings.''
 Mr. Crews, who has been married 17 years and has five children, grew up in Flint, Mich., where his father juggled jobs as a foreman at General Motors and cleaning a Laundromat. ''There's a lot of Julius in that,'' he said.
 The Flint economy went south in the 1980s with the decline of the automobile industry. ''We went from 10 high schools to 3,'' Mr. Arnold said. ''Everyone left. There were no jobs.'' 
 His talents as an artist and a football player led to a scholarship at Western Michigan University. For seven years Mr. Crews played professional football, spending time with the Green Bay Packers and San Diego Chargers, among other teams. He retired from the N.F.L. in 1997 to pursue acting, and in 1999 was cast for the first thing he auditioned for, an extreme sports show called ''Battle Dome.'' 
 ''Everybody Hates Chris'' represents a return to showing ordinary folk finding their way, Mr. Crews said. After ''The Cosby Show,'' which ran from 1984 to '92, featuring an affluent black family, ''everybody had to be making money,'' he said. ''The pendulum swings the other way to our show. The heart is not what we do but who we are. Like 95 percent of the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tichina Arnold and Terry Crews visiting Chris Rock's old neighborhood. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
Chris Rock, co-creator of ''Everybody Hates Chris,'' as a teenager in Brooklyn. (Photo courtesy of Chris Rock)(pg. E1)
 Tichina Arnold and Terry Crews, who play Chris Rock's TV parents, on a visit to Brooklyn last month. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); MEN (68%) Television; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%)

PERSON: CHRIS ROCK (95%) Felicia R Lee; Chris Rock

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



728 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Bursting Bubble Blues

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Here are the five stages of housing grief:
 1. Housing bubble? What housing bubble? ''A national severe price distortion [in housing] seems most unlikely in the United States.'' (Alan Greenspan, October 2004)
2. ''There's a little froth in this market,'' but ''we don't perceive that there is a national bubble.'' (Alan Greenspan, May 2005) 
 3. Housing is slumping, but ''despite what you hear from some of the Eeyores in the analytical community, a recession is not visible on the horizon.'' (Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, August 2006) 
 4. Well, that was a lousy quarter, but ''I feel good about the U.S. economy, I really do.'' (Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, last Friday)
 5. Insert expletive here.
 We've now reached stage 4. Will we move on to stage 5?
 Over the last few years, most good U.S. economic news has been the result of soaring home prices. Spending on new houses created jobs and poured cash into the economy. Consumers borrowed against the rising values of existing homes and went on a buying spree, spending more than they earned for the first time since the great depression. 
 But the housing boom became a bubble, fueled by a surge of irresponsible bank lending, which continues even now. (Yesterday's Denver Post tells of a runaway prisoner who managed to borrow enough to buy three expensive houses while on the lam, then bought two more while in prison.) The question now is how much pain the bursting bubble will inflict.
 Last week's report on G.D.P. showed the first signs of serious economic damage. According to the ''advance'' estimates (which are often subject to major revisions), growth in the third quarter of 2006 slowed to its worst level since early 2003. A plunge in spending on residential construction, which fell at an annual rate of 17 percent, was the main culprit. But was that just a temporary setback, or the beginning of something much worse?
 Some say the worst is already over. Mr. Greenspan, who's been an optimist all the way, now argues that the latest data on new-home sales and mortgage applications suggest that housing has already bottomed out. Business investment is still growing briskly, and so far consumers haven't cut their spending. So maybe this is as bad as it gets.
 But I think the pessimists have a stronger case. There's a lot of evidence that home prices, although they've started to decline, are still way out of line. Spending on home construction remains abnormally high as a percentage of G.D.P., because banks are still lending freely in spite of rapidly rising foreclosure rates. 
 This means that home sales probably still have a long way to fall. And you don't want to make too much of the fact that some housing indicators have turned up; those indicators tend to bounce around a lot from month to month. 
 Moreover, much of the good news in the latest economic report is unsustainable at best, suspect at worst. Almost half of last quarter's estimated growth was the result of a reported surge in automobile output, which some observers think was a statistical illusion, not something that really happened.
 So this is probably just the beginning. How bad can it get? Well, you don't have to go far to find grim forecasts: Merrill Lynch predicts that the unemployment rate will rise from 4.6 percent now to 5.8 percent by the end of next year.
 In case you're wondering, I don't blame the Bush administration for the latest bad economic numbers. If anyone is to blame for the current situation, it's Mr. Greenspan, who pooh-poohed warnings about an emerging bubble and did nothing to crack down on irresponsible lending.
 Still, the bad news will have political consequences. The Bush administration has been trying to shift attention away from the disaster in Iraq to an allegedly booming economy. That strategy wasn't working too well even when the headline numbers were good, because it never felt like a boom to most Americans. But now even the headline numbers have turned lousy.
 And if that hurts the G.O.P. in next week's election, well, there's a certain poetic justice involved. The administration tried to claim undeserved credit for the positive effects of the housing boom, so why shouldn't it receive some blame for the negative effects of the housing bust?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (93%); HOUSING BUBBLE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); STATISTICS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Election Issues; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); HENRY PAULSON (53%) Paul Krugman; Alan Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



729 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2984 words

HEADLINE: BUDGETS FALLING IN RACE TO FIGHT GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Cheers fit for a revival meeting swept a hotel ballroom as 1,800 entrepreneurs and experts watched a PowerPoint presentation of the most promising technologies for limiting global warming: solar power, wind, ethanol and other farmed fuels, energy-efficient buildings and fuel-sipping cars. 
 ''Houston,'' Charles F. Kutscher, chairman of the Solar 2006 conference, concluded in a twist on the line from Apollo 13, ''we have a solution.''
Hold the applause. For all the enthusiasm about alternatives to coal and oil, the challenge of limiting emissions of carbon dioxide, which traps heat, will be immense in a world likely to add 2.5 billion people by midcentury, a host of other experts say. Moreover, most of those people will live in countries like China and India, which are just beginning to enjoy an electrified, air-conditioned mobile society. 
 The challenge is all the more daunting because research into energy technologies by both government and industry has not been rising, but rather falling. 
 In the United States, annual federal spending for all energy research and development -- not just the research aimed at climate-friendly technologies -- is less than half what it was a quarter-century ago. It has sunk to $3 billion a year in the current budget from an inflation-adjusted peak of $7.7 billion in 1979, according to several different studies.
 Britain, for one, has sounded a loud alarm about the need for prompt action on the climate issue, including more research. [A report commissioned by the British government and scheduled to be released today calls for spending to be doubled worldwide on research into low-carbon technologies; without it, the report says, coastal flooding and a shortage of drinking water could turn 200 million people into refugees.]
 President Bush has sought an increase to $4.2 billion for 2007, but that would still be a small fraction of what most climate and energy experts say would be needed.
 Federal spending on medical research, by contrast, has nearly quadrupled, to $28 billion annually, since 1979. Military research has increased 260 percent, and at more than $75 billion a year is 20 times the amount spent on energy research.
 Internationally, government energy research trends are little different from those in the United States. Japan is the only economic power that increased research spending in recent decades, with growth focused on efficiency and solar technology, according to the International Energy Agency.
 In the private sector, studies show that energy companies have a long tradition of eschewing long-term technology quests because of the lack of short-term payoffs. 
 Still, more than four dozen scientists, economists, engineers and entrepreneurs interviewed by The New York Times said that unless the search for abundant non-polluting energy sources and systems became far more aggressive, the world would probably face dangerous warming and international strife as nations with growing energy demands compete for increasingly inadequate resources. 
 Most of these experts also say existing energy alternatives and improvements in energy efficiency are simply not enough. 
 ''We cannot come close to stabilizing temperatures'' unless humans, by the end of the century, stop adding more CO2 to the atmosphere than it can absorb, said W. David Montgomery of Charles River Associates, a consulting group, ''and that will be an economic impossibility without a major R.& D. investment.''
 A sustained push is needed not just to refine, test and deploy known low-carbon technologies, but also to find ''energy technologies that don't have a name yet,'' said James A. Edmonds, a chief scientist at the Joint Global Change Research Institute of the University of Maryland and the Energy Department.
 At the same time, many energy experts and economists agree on another daunting point: To make any resulting ''alternative'' energy options the new norm will require attaching a significant cost to the carbon emissions from coal, oil and gas. 
 ''A price incentive stirs people to look at a thousand different things,' '' said Henry D. Jacoby, a climate and energy expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 For now, a carbon cap or tax is opposed by President Bush, most American lawmakers and many industries. And there are scant signs of consensus on a long-term successor to the Kyoto Protocol, the first treaty obligating participating industrial countries to cut warming emissions. (The United States has not ratified the pact.) 
 The next round of talks on Kyoto and an underlying voluntary treaty will take place next month in Nairobi, Kenya.
 Environmental campaigners, focused on promptly establishing binding limits on emissions of heat-trapping gases, have tended to play down the need for big investments seeking energy breakthroughs. At the end of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' former Vice President Al Gore's documentary film on climate change, he concluded: ''We already know everything we need to know to effectively address this problem.'' 
 While applauding Mr. Gore's enthusiasm, many energy experts said this stance was counterproductive because there was no way, given global growth in energy demand, that existing technology could avert a doubling or more of atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide in this century. 
 Mr. Gore has since adjusted his stance, saying existing technology is sufficient to start on the path to a stable climate.
 Other researchers say the chances of success are so low, unless something breaks the societal impasse, that any technology quest should also include work on increasing the resilience to climate extremes -- through actions like developing more drought-tolerant crops -- as well as last-ditch climate fixes, like testing ways to block some incoming sunlight to counter warming. 
 Without big reductions in emissions, the midrange projections of most scenarios envision a rise of 4 degrees or so in this century, four times the warming in the last 100 years. That could, among other effects, produce a disruptive mix of intensified flooding and withering droughts in the world's prime agricultural regions.
 Sir Nicholas Stern, the chief of Britain's economic service and author of the new government report on climate options, has summarized the cumulative nature of the threat succinctly: ''The sting is in the tail.''

The Carbon Dioxide Problem
 Many factors intersect to make the prompt addressing of global warming very difficult, experts say.
 A central hurdle is that carbon dioxide accumulates in the atmosphere like unpaid credit card debt as long as emissions exceed the rate at which the gas is naturally removed from the atmosphere by the oceans and plants. But the technologies producing the emissions evolve slowly. 
 A typical new coal-fired power plant, one of the largest sources of emissions, is expected to operate for many decades. About one large coal-burning plant is being commissioned a week, mostly in China.
 ''We've got a $12 trillion capital investment in the world energy economy and a turnover time of 30 to 40 years,'' said John P. Holdren, a physicist and climate expert at Harvard University and president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. ''If you want it to look different in 30 or 40 years, you'd better start now.''
 Many experts say this means the only way to affordably speed the transition to low-emissions energy is with advances in technologies at all stages of maturity.
 Examples include:
 Substantially improving the efficiency and cost of solar panels;
 Conducting full-scale tests of systems for capturing carbon dioxide from power plants and pumping it underground;
 Seeking efficient ways to generate fuels from crops;
 Finding new ways to store vast amounts of energy harvested intermittently from the wind and sun.
 Carbon dioxide levels will stabilize only if each generation persists in developing and deploying alternatives to unfettered fossil-fuel emissions, said Robert H. Socolow, a physicist and co-director of a Princeton ''carbon mitigation initiative'' created with $20 million from BP and Ford Motor. 
 The most immediate gains could come simply by increasing energy efficiency. If efficiency gains in transportation, buildings, power transmission and other areas were doubled from the longstanding rate of 1 percent per year to 2 percent, Dr. Holdren wrote in the M.I.T. journal Innovations earlier this year, that could hold the amount of new nonpolluting energy required by 2100 to the amount derived from fossil fuels in 2000 --a huge challenge, but not impossible. 
 Another area requiring immediate intensified work, Dr. Holdren and other experts say, is large-scale demonstration of systems for capturing carbon dioxide from coal burning before too many old-style plants are built. 
 All of the components for capturing carbon dioxide and disposing of it underground are already in use, particularly in oil fields, where pressurized carbon dioxide is used to drive the last dregs of oil from the ground. 
 In this area, said David Keith, an energy expert at the University of Calgary, ''We just need to build the damn things on a billion-dollar scale.''
 In the United States, the biggest effort along these lines is the 285-megawatt Futuregen power plant planned by the Energy Department, along with private and international partners, that was announced in 2003 by President Bush and is scheduled to be built in either Illinois or Texas by 2012. James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said the Bush administration was making this a high priority. 
 ''We share the view that a significantly more aggressive agenda on carbon capture and storage and zero-pollution coal is necessary,'' he said, adding that the administration has raised annual spending on storage options ''from essentially zero to over $70 million.'' 
 Europe is pursuing a suite of such plants, including one in China, but also well behind the necessary pace, several experts said.
 Even within the Energy Department, some experts are voicing frustration over the pace of such programs. ''What I don't like about Futuregen,'' said Dr. Kutscher, an engineer at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo., ''is the word 'future' in there.''

Beyond a Holding Action
 No matter what happens in the next decade or so, many experts say, the second and probably hardest phase of stabilizing the level of carbon dioxide will fall to the generation of engineers and entrepreneurs now in diapers, and the one after that. And those innovators will not have much to build on without greatly increased investment now in basic research. 
 There is plenty of ferment. Current research ranges from work on algae strains that can turn sunlight into hydrogen fuel to the inkjet-style printing of photovoltaic cells -- a technique that could greatly cut solar-energy costs if it worked on a large scale. One company is promoting high-flying kite-like windmills to harvest the boundless energy in the jet stream. 
 But all of the small-scale experimentation will never move into the energy marketplace without a much bigger push not only for research and development, but for the lesser-known steps known as demonstration and deployment.
 In this arena, there is a vital role for government spending, many experts agree, particularly on ''enabling technologies'' -- innovations that would never be pursued by private industry because they mainly amount to a public good, not a potential source of profit, said Christopher Green, an economist at McGill University.
 Examples include refining ways to securely handle radioactive waste from nuclear reactors; testing repositories for carbon dioxide captured at power plants; and, perhaps more important, improving the electricity grid so that it can manage large flows from intermittent sources like windmills and solar panels.
 ''Without storage possibilities on a large scale,'' Mr. Green said, ''solar and wind will be relegated to niche status.''
 While private investors and entrepreneurs are jumping into alternative energy projects, they cannot be counted on to solve such problems, economists say, because even the most aggressive venture capitalists want a big payback within five years. 
 Many scientists say the only real long-term prospect for significantly substituting for fossil fuels is a breakthrough in harvesting solar power. This has been understood since the days of Thomas Edison. In a conversation with Henry Ford and the tire tycoon Harvey Firestone in 1931, shortly before Edison died, he said: ''I'd put my money on the sun and solar energy. What a source of power! I hope we don't have to wait until oil and coal run out before we tackle that.''
 California, following models set in Japan and Germany, is trying to help solar energy with various incentives.
 But such initiatives mainly pull existing technologies into the market, experts say, and do little to propel private research toward the next big advances. Even Vinod Khosla, a leading environment-oriented venture capitalist who invests heavily in ethanol and other alternative energy projects, said in an interview that he was not ready to back solar power because it did not appear able to show a profit without subsidies.

The Role of Leadership
 At the federal level, the Bush administration was criticized by Republican and Democratic lawmakers at several recent hearings on climate change. 
 Mr. Connaughton, the lead White House official on the environment, said most critics are not aware of how much has been done. 
 ''This administration has developed the most sophisticated and carefully considered strategic plan for advancing the technologies that are a necessary part of the climate solution,'' he said. He added that the administration must weigh tradeoffs with other pressing demands like health care. 
 Since 2001, when Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign pledge to limit carbon dioxide from power plants, he has said that too little is known about specific dangers of global warming to justify hard targets or mandatory curbs for the gas.
 He has also asserted that any solution will lie less in regulation than in innovation.
 ''My answer to the energy question also is an answer to how you deal with the greenhouse-gas issue, and that is new technologies will change how we live,'' he said in May.
 But critics, including some Republican lawmakers, now say that mounting evidence for risks -- including findings that administration officials have tried to suppress of late -- justifies prompt, more aggressive action to pay for or spur research and speed the movement of climate-friendly energy options into the marketplace. 
 Martin I. Hoffert, an emeritus professor of physics at New York University, said that what was needed was for a leader to articulate the energy challenge as President John F. Kennedy made his case for the mission to the moon. President Kennedy said they were imperative, ''not because they are easy, but because they are hard.''
 In a report on competitiveness and research released last year, the National Academies, the country's top science advisory body, urged the government to substantially expand spending on long-term basic research, particularly on energy. 
 The report, titled ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm,'' recommended that the Energy Department create a research-financing body similar to the 48-year-old Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, orDarpa, to make grants and attack a variety of energy questions, including climate change. 
 Darpa, created after the Soviet Union launched Sputnik in 1957, was set up outside the sway of Congress to provide advances in areas like weapons, surveillance and defensive systems. But it also produced technologies like the Internet and the global positioning system for navigation. 
 Mr. Connaughton said it would be premature to conclude that a new agency was needed for energy innovation. 
 But many experts, from oil-industry officials to ecologists, agree that the status quo for energy research will not suffice. 
 The benefits of an intensified energy quest would go far beyond cutting the risks of dangerous climate change, said Roger H. Bezdek, an economist at Management Information Systems, a consulting group.
 The world economy, he said, is facing two simultaneous energy challenges beyond global warming: the end of relatively cheap and easy oil, and the explosive demand for fuel in developing countries. 
 Advanced research should be diversified like an investment portfolio, he said. ''The big payoff comes from a small number of very large winners,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, we cannot pick the winners in advance.''
 Ultimately, a big increase in government spending on basic energy research will happen only if scientists can persuade the public and politicians that it is an essential hedge against potential calamity.
 That may be the biggest hurdle of all, given the unfamiliar nature of the slowly building problem -- the antithesis of epochal events like Pearl Harbor, Sputnik and 9/11 that triggered sweeping enterprises.
 ''We're good at rushing in with white hats,'' said Bobi Garrett, associate director of planning and technology management at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. ''This is not a problem where you can do that.''

The Energy Challenge
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.

 NATURAL RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
GENERAL SCIENCE
ENERGY (PRIVATE SECTOR): Energy (Government)
MILITARY

*Data after 1998 adjusts for U.S. accounting changes.

(David Constantine/The New York Times)

(Sources by American Association for the Advancement of Science; Dan Kammen, University of California at Berkeley)(pg. A14)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Declining Investment in Energy R.& D.''Spending for energy research and development peaked during the oil crisis and has since fallen while spending in most other sectors continues to grow.Research and development spending by function, in 2006 dollarsGraphs track the following from since 1960:ENERGY (GOVERNMENT)*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ETHANOL (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (68%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (63%); COASTAL AREAS (63%) Electric Light and Power; Weather; Global Warming; Surveys and Series; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%) Andrew C Revkin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%) United States; Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



730 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; AMERICAN ALBUM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: As the Jobs Go South, The Hope Goes With Them

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: McMINNVILLE, Tenn. 

 BODY:
You may have seen Don Rackley before. You see people like him every election cycle. The human prop, he calls himself. He says it with a ring of bitterness.
 He is the sort of man you see on television sitting at the counter of a diner in a down-and-out steel town, or a struggling textile town, some American place teetering on despair. The candidates come for the morning, roll up their sleeves, promise changes. The cameras snap the pictures. Then everybody leaves.
In February 2004, John Edwards, the senator from North Carolina and a White House hopeful, was that candidate in this part of the country, a place of chicken pens and cotton fields in the triangle of Nashville, Knoxville and Chattanooga. The region was once humming with factory jobs paying $15 an hour to start, with benefits and vacation. 
 But the Carrier Corporation, an industrial air-conditioning manufacturer and the financial anchor of Warren County, had just announced it was shutting its profitable plant and shipping many of the 1,300 jobs to Mexico, the latest in a string of closings in the area.
 Mr. Edwards came on a cold February morning. Checkered tablecloths were put out at Prater's BBQ out on Manchester Highway. Workers were rounded up. Mr. Rackley, the president of the Sheet Metal Workers Local 483 and a crew leader in the Carrier plant, was there. James Mears, the recording secretary, wore his union jacket and cap. They had a heart-to-heart with Mr. Edwards over bad coffee.
 ''Mr. Edwards promised he'd try to get Nafta repealed,'' Mr. Rackley said afterward as reporters took notes. 
 Then, the senator left. The reporters left. And, last year, the factory left.
 Left behind were thousands of people who once had a piece of the American middle class, including Mr. Rackley. The million-square-foot factory squats empty in a green pasture, like an elephant in the death field. The only reminder of Don Rackley's 28 years there are the salt and pepper shakers collecting dust on the cafeteria table where he used to eat lunch.
 ''I got to give Edwards some credit,'' Mr. Rackley said from the porch of his prefabricated home deep in the country across from a corn field. ''At least he showed up.''
 Mr. Edwards had tapped into a simmering resentment, he said. The Two Americas: the haves and the have-nots. But Mr. Edwards did not articulate a third type of America, Mr. Rackley said. The one he finds himself part of: ''The used-to-haves.''
 The factory employs six people now, security men making sure the place doesn't burn down. When it was boarded up, Mr. Rackley, 48, looked for another job, but there were few beyond the convenience-store counter or the gas station. With the screw plant and box factory gone and the electric motor company in the final stages of shutdown, Mr. Rackley tried tree-stump grinding for a while, but business was catch as catch can.
 Now he drives a sod truck for a third of what he used to make. His wife, Jovella, 51, has a little beauty parlor next to their house, past the white church beyond the railroad tracks, with goats and chickens roaming behind it. She charges $8 a haircut.
 ''Some guys are living off their unemployment,'' Mr. Rackley said, his cheeks flush, his fists clenched, looking as if he might punch the man who asked the stupid question. ''Worst, some guys are living off their wives.''
 Mr. Rackley began working at the Carrier plant out of high school and thought he would retire there. He worked his way from the assembly line to brazing metals to crew chief.
 After a while, the Rackleys were able to afford property. They raised a family and bought a new truck now and then. But that life ended in November of last year, when he punched the clock for the final time.
 There are thousands of people in the area filling out unemployment applications. The Rackleys' daughter is not working either. Nor is her husband. Eleven percent of the county is unemployed. It is the highest unemployment rate in Tennessee. The severance checks run out sometime next month.
 Mondays at the unemployment office are like an Irish wake: middle-aged people telling worn-out stories, laughing through their circumstance. The place has an Orwellian name: Tennessee Career Center. James Hash, standing in line with a ball cap pulled over his eyes, put it like this: ''Here you are standing in an employment line at my age. Nobody wants you no more.''
 ''You're left out. You're not American no more.''
 They come to the unemployment office to get yellow cards, and it works like this: They go someplace and ask for a job; they are rejected, and receive a yellow card proving they have been rejected. This is how they earn their $275-a-week unemployment check, before taxes. They call it the barn dance, and one of their first employment-rejection stops is the struggling dry cleaning shop next door.
 But Mr. Rackley refuses to take the handout. ''I was raised to work,'' he said, ''so I swallowed my pride, and now I drive a sod truck.'' He makes too much money to receive state-financed health care, makes too little to afford his own.
 ''The American way has slipped away,'' he said, having just finished a 12-hour day that paid him $100.
 ''I don't know what those people are going to do when those unemployment checks run out,'' he said. ''People's going to go crazy.''
 He stalks off to kill a chicken for dinner. His wife is near tears. She'll probably never see Disney World now. She said quitting her Virginia Slims cigarettes would save some money, but there was too much stress for that.
 She sweeps the parlor floor in silence for a while. She probably won't vote in the midterm Congressional election.
 ''I'd like to see the politicians come back now,'' Mrs. Rackley said. ''We're hurting bad down here. It's like they used us, then forgot about us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Edwards campaigning in McMinnville in February 2004.
 HARD TIMES IN SMALL-TOWN TENNESSEE -- Don Rackley, top left, lost his job after 28 years with the Carrier Corporation, which left McMinnville, Tenn., for Mexico. His wife, Jovella, charges $8 for haircuts. Former factory workers line up for unemployment benefits, left. The now-empty Carrier plant used to employ 1,300 people. Right, a waiting room at the unemployment office. (Photographs by STEPHEN CROWLEY/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); RELOCATIONS (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (69%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CARRIER CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Carrier Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (83%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%) Charlie Leduff; Don Rackley; John Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (56%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%) Mcminnville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006



731 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Computing, 2016: What Won't Be Possible?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Computer science is not only a comparatively young field, but also one that has had to prove it is really science. Skeptics in academia would often say that after Alan Turing described the concept of the ''universal machine'' in the late 1930's -- the idea that a computer in theory could be made to do the work of any kind of calculating machine, including the human brain -- all that remained to be done was mere engineering.
 The more generous perspective today is that decades of stunningly rapid advances in processing speed, storage and networking, along with the development of increasingly clever software, have brought computing into science, business and culture in ways that were barely imagined years ago. The quantitative changes delivered through smart engineering opened the door to qualitative changes. 
 Computing changes what can be seen, simulated and done. So in science, computing makes it possible to simulate climate change and unravel the human genome. In business, low-cost computing, the Internet and digital communications are transforming the global economy. In culture, the artifacts of computing include the iPod, YouTube and computer-animated movies. 
 What's next? That was the subject of a symposium in Washington this month held by the Computer Science and Telecommunications Board, which is part of the National Academies and the nation's leading advisory board on science and technology. Joseph F. Traub, the board's chairman and a professor at Columbia University, titled the symposium ''2016.''
 Computer scientists from academia and companies like I.B.M. and Google discussed topics including social networks, digital imaging, online media and the impact on work and employment. But most talks touched on two broad themes: the impact of computing will go deeper into the sciences and spread more into the social sciences, and policy issues will loom large, as the technology becomes more powerful and more pervasive.
 Richard M. Karp, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, gave a talk whose title seemed esoteric: ''The Algorithmic Nature of Scientific Theories.'' 
 Yet he presented a fundamental explanation for why computing has had such a major impact on other sciences, and Dr. Karp himself personifies the trend. His research has moved beyond computer science to microbiology in recent years. An algorithm, put simply, is a step-by-step recipe for calculation, and it is a central concept in both mathematics and computer science.
 ''Algorithms are small but beautiful,'' Dr. Karp observed. And algorithms are good at describing dynamic processes, while scientific formulas or equations are more suited to static phenomena. Increasingly, scientific research seeks to understand dynamic processes, and computer science, he said, is the systematic study of algorithms.
 Biology, Dr. Karp said, is now understood as an information science. And scientists seek to describe biological processes, like protein production, as algorithms. ''In other words, nature is computing,'' he said.
 Social networks, noted Jon Kleinberg, a professor at Cornell, are pre-technological creations that sociologists have been analyzing for decades. A classic example, he noted, was the work of Stanley Milgram of Harvard, who in the 1960's asked each of several volunteers in the Midwest to get a letter to a stranger in Boston. But the path was not direct: under the rules of the experiment, participants could send a letter only to someone they knew. The median number of intermediaries was six -- hence, the term ''six degrees of separation.'' 
 But with the rise of the Internet, social networks and technology networks are becoming inextricably linked, so that behavior in social networks can be tracked on a scale never before possible. 
 ''We're really witnessing a revolution in measurement,'' Dr. Kleinberg said.
 The new social-and-technology networks that can be studied include e-mail patterns, buying recommendations on commercial Web sites like Amazon, messages and postings on community sites like MySpace and Facebook, and the diffusion of news, opinions, fads, urban myths, products and services over the Internet. Why do some online communities thrive, while others decline and perish? What forces or characteristics determine success? Can they be captured in a computing algorithm? 
 Social networking research promises a rich trove for marketers and politicians, as well as sociologists, economists, anthropologists, psychologists and educators. 
 ''This is the introduction of computing and algorithmic processes into the social sciences in a big way,'' Dr. Kleinberg said, ''and we're just at the beginning.''
 But having a powerful new tool of tracking the online behavior of groups and individuals also raises serious privacy issues. That became apparent this summer when AOL inadvertently released Web search logs of 650,000 users. 
 Future trends in computer imaging and storage will make it possible for a person, wearing a tiny digital device with a microphone and camera, to essentially record his or her life. The potential for communication, media and personal enrichment is striking. Rick Rashid, a computer scientist and head of Microsoft's research labs, noted that he would like to see a recording of the first steps of his grown son, or listen to a conversation he had with his father many years ago. ''I'd like some of that back,'' he said. ''In the future, that will be possible.''
 But clearly, the technology could also enable a surveillance society. ''We'll have the capability, and it will be up to society to determine how we use it,'' Dr. Rashid said. ''Society will determine that, not scientists.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BY DEGREES -- Jon Kleinberg, professor of computer science at Cornell, sees ''a revolution in measurement'' in the use of computers to analyze social networks. (Photo by James Rajotte for The New York Times)
 (Photo by David Constantine/The New York Times)Chart/Diagram: ''A Web Site as a Living Organism''Social and computer scientists are studying how social networking Web sites, like myspace.com, grow and change. They hope to learn why and how some online groups thrive and attract members while others stagnate and die out.Diagram highlights the following:EACH CIRCLE represents one member. Larger circles are members who recruited more new members.EACH LINE represents a ''friendship'' between two people.AREAS OF GROWTH -- Part of the network where many new members are joining through their connections to existing members.DEAD AREA -- Part of the group with many existing members who are doing very little to actively recruit new people.Old memberNew memberOld friendshipNew friendship -- Corresponds to someone recruiting a friend into the group.(Source by Jon Kleinberg and Lars Backstrom, Cornell University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (79%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); ANIMATION (66%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (60%); ANIMATED FILMS (52%) Computers and the Internet; Research

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%) Computer Science and Telecommunications Board

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



732 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: In Shift, Newark Mayor Backs Hockey Arena After Team Agrees to Offer Local Aid

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The devil was still lurking in the details, but Mayor Cory Booker decided on Monday to officially embrace the hockey arena that he had once promised to vanquish.
 After months of negotiations with the owner of the Devils, the mayor held a news conference to trumpet a series of modest concessions he had wrung from the team, which will move next year from the Meadowlands to the $365 million stadium that is rapidly taking shape a few hundred yards from City Hall.
''I am now a hockey fan, and not just any hockey fan, but a Devils fan,'' Mr. Booker said, standing beside Jeff Vanderbeek, the team's owner, who was clearly relieved to finally have the backing of the city's popular new mayor. 
 Mr. Vanderbeek acknowledged that discussions had been fraught at times. ''Adversity does breed togetherness, if you get through it,'' he said with a smile.
 The agreement requires the team to provide $625,000 each year for youth sports and recreation, the construction and renovation of city parks and a labor apprenticeship program for minority residents. Mr. Vanderbeek also agreed to distribute 4,500 free tickets to local children each year, and return to the city the development rights for a key parcel of vacant land that Mr. Booker valued at $3 million to $5 million.
 Mr. Vanderbeek also assured the mayor that he would go out of his way to provide permanent arena jobs to Newark residents and not interfere with labor organizers seeking to unionize concession workers. 
 During the campaign, Mr. Booker criticized the arena deal made by his predecessor, Sharpe James, calling it a ''boondoggle'' and a ''betrayal of public trust'' for committing $210 million in municipal money that he said could have been better spent on the commonweal. Once he was elected, he said again and again, the deal would have to be renegotiated. 
 But as mayor, Mr. Booker quickly discovered that unraveling the deal was all but impossible. Nullifying the terms of the agreement would have opened the city to costly litigation, and the ensuing fight would have sent the wrong message to the real estate developers and civic boosters who have been eagerly awaiting a new dawn for this downtrodden city. 
 Except for using the bureaucracy to slow a project on a tight deadline, Mr. Booker found himself with little leverage. ''When you sit at the negotiating table, you don't always get everything that you want,'' he said, explaining his newfound affection for hockey. ''It was a challenging situation, so instead of looking for ways to stop the project, we had to look at ways to go forward.''
 Mr. Booker's announcement brought great relief to business leaders. Arthur Stern, chief executive of the Cogswell Realty Group, who is creating some of the city's first luxury housing in an Art Deco office tower a few blocks from the arena, said many developers were sitting on the sidelines awaiting the resolution of the impasse. ''This is a great day for Newark,'' he said. ''I think the arena is going to stimulate development just as the performing arts center did. Ten years from now, the skepticism will be a distant memory.''
 Whether the 18,000-seat arena becomes a crowd pleaser remains to be seen. There are doubters who question if it will draw sufficient numbers of suburbanites. The Devils' current home in the Meadowlands rarely sells out, though the team has won the Stanley Cup three times in the past dozen years. 
 Then there is the issue of what will become of the Continental Arena in the Meadowlands after the Devils move nine miles south to Newark next October. Although older and thin on those coveted luxury boxes, the arena could end up competing for the same rock concerts and ice-skating extravaganzas that the Newark arena needs to stay financially viable. Newark and Devils officials would be thrilled if the state decided either to tear down the Meadowlands arena or to convert it to some other use. The Booker administration would also love to lure the Nets basketball team if plans for a new home in Brooklyn come to naught. 
 With the arena's arrival here now certain, longtime observers relished the moment, saying it was another step in Newark's long climb from urban obsolescence. Clement Price, a history professor at Rutgers University's Newark campus, said the arena is as much a symbol as a steel-and-concrete catalyst for economic development. ''I'm not a big hockey fan,'' he said, ''but this project is another acknowledgment that cities like Newark can become beacons of civic culture, entertainment, education and, in this case, sports.'' 
 Mr. Booker may agree with such sentiments, although he may wish that the symbolism cost City Hall a little less money. Although on Monday he was gamely swooning for the news media about his new love for hockey, his boosterism had its limits. When a red-and-black Devils jersey, emblazed with ''Booker'' and ''07,'' was brought out for the signing of the agreement, it was suggested that the mayor put it on for the cameras. Mr. Booker smiled and held the shirt in front of him as if it were an ugly baby. ''Wow, this is great,'' he said.
 Then he handed the shirt to an assistant and got down to business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS FANS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); CITIES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (66%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LITIGATION (50%) Hockey, Ice; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: Cory (Mayor) Booker; Jeffrey Vanderbeek; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



733 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In Violent End of a Life Reformed, A Legacy of Fear and Questions

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Hykiem Coney, a 24-year-old onetime gang leader and drug dealer, undertook something two years ago that usually sounds like a cliche. But according to people who have done it, the task is usually profoundly hard and treacherous. He tried to give up crime and to do some good.
 By pretty much all accounts, he did it. In the two years after his final release from prison in 2004, Mr. Coney worked as an antigang organizer, spoke to tough youths in the toughest public schools, sang in his church choir, began studying to become a minister and started working toward a college degree.
His story made him a favorite of local community activists and of the news media, too. He was featured in newspaper profiles, a national radio interview and in a televised conversation with Gil Noble, a commentator for WABC-TV. 
 When Mr. Coney was shot outside a local bar at 4 a.m. on Oct. 21, this troubled Long Island community of failing schools and economic hardship from which he had emerged almost seemed to gasp for breath.
 For the five days he was on life support, family members and community leaders gathered at his bedside to pray. When the Nassau County medical examiner told Newsday that Mr. Coney was brain-dead, a local minister and mentor, Bishop J. Raymond Mackey Sr. of the Tabernacle of Joy church, called a news conference to angrily rebut what he called the ''distortion.''
 ''Science and the newspapers can believe what they believe, but we believe in miracles,'' Bishop Mackey said.
 But because his family agreed to discontinue life support and he was declared dead four days later, Mr. Coney's story, once disseminated widely as an example of what a person can do if he puts his whole mind and heart to it, has become something that few people here seem to feel comfortable talking about.
 In part, it is discomfort with the fact that Mr. Coney, after rejecting the life of the street, was killed early on a Saturday morning outside a bar known in the toughest neighborhoods of Nassau County as a place where gangsters gather. 
 Though there is nothing especially untoward about a 24-year-old man staying out with friends until closing time at a bar a half-mile from his home, Mr. Coney's mentor, Bishop Mackey, said he was ''tired of people asking me what was Hykiem doing in a place like that.''
 ''The fact is Hykiem's work was not 9 to 5,'' he said. ''He was always going places where the gang members were, at the times they were going to be there.''
 In part, it was a fear of something more sinister -- the possibility that Mr. Coney's shooting might be meant as a message on the streets of the community where he was known.
 Was he killed in retribution for his work trying to stop gangs, which often allied him with the Nassau County Police Department's antigang task force?
 ''We don't want kids to look at what happened and say, 'Look what they did to Hykiem. Why should I change?' '' said Sergio Argueta, director of an antigang group called Strong, (Struggling to Reunite Our New Generation) and himself a former gang member. ''So, basically we've been trying to spin what happened in the most positive way we can, though I hate to use that terminology.''
 The spin, essentially, is that Mr. Coney's death was random, Mr. Argueta said: He was killed in a rough part of town, where shootings are not uncommon. His redemption just happened to be interrupted by somebody else's crime.
 In response to Mr. Coney's death, local lawmakers have called for stepped-up law enforcement and increased financing for groups like the one he served on, Help End Violence Now, known here as HEVN. 
 At an emotional gathering on Sunday of young people, former gang members and some parents of those killed in gang violence, Bishop Mackey called on public officials to recognize that ''we are in a state of emergency.''
 He said that Mr. Coney had been like a son to him. ''For many years, I have comforted the parents of children killed by gang violence,'' he said. ''But I must admit that until now, I never fully felt the pain of such a loss.''
 Mr. Coney, in a radio interview that was broadcast on Oct. 19, two days before he was shot, told the host, Dick Gordon of American Public Media, that he started ''running in the streets at 13,'' selling drugs to make money, ''trying to fit in.'' 
 His father was absent. His mother, Theresa, joined the Army and moved to Georgia when he was a teenager. After that, he was raised by his grandmother.
 He and a friend, Teddy Raiford, started a branch of a gang called the Outlaws in Hempstead when they were 15, he told Mr. Gordon. 
 Mr. Coney was shot in the back when he was 17, went to prison the same year on drug and gun charges, and remained there until he was 22. Eleven days before Mr. Coney's release, Mr. Raiford was fatally shot.
 ''I realized at that point that I was blessed just to be alive,'' Mr. Coney said in the interview. But having decided to try to change, he said, it was only with the help of Bishop Mackey, the director of HEVN, ''who kept after me, kept talking to me,'' that he was able to resist slipping back.
 ''It's a process, and I'm challenged every day between the old me and the new me,'' Mr. Coney said.
 Speculation about what happened the night of the shooting includes a chain of events featuring both the old and the new Mr. Coney: an encounter with enemies past; an effort to intervene in someone else's dispute; a confrontation with someone who thought Mr. Coney had grown too close to the police.
 Nassau County homicide investigators say that Mr. Coney and a group of his friends were part of a large crowd that spilled out of Images Bar and Lounge on Hempstead Turnpike at 4 a.m. 
 Somewhere in the crowd, they said, a fight erupted. Mr. Coney was shot once in the chest and once in the back of the head. The police have not said if Mr. Coney was involved in the fight, or if he was the intended target. 
 Friends of Mr. Coney's have raised questions about whether the police jeopardized him by involving him too closely on their behalf in meetings with gang members. 
 In one recent instance, he was asked to talk to gang members on probation or parole in a program called ''Operation Ceasefire.'' In Part 1 of that two-part, morning-long program, the police put gang members on notice that they would be considered in violation of parole or probation -- and sent to jail -- if any fellow gang members committed crimes. Part 2 was Hykiem Coney's address, describing his former life and inviting the gang members to join him in changing the landscape of their community.
 ''Did we jeopardize him? I don't know how to answer that,'' said Matthew J. Simeone Jr., a Nassau County police inspector who is in charge of the department's antigang unit. ''There is risk in everything we do. I think Hykiem believed in what he was doing.''
 Ronnie Howard, 20, a distant cousin, recalled that Mr. Coney stopped by hours before the shooting to invite him out for a few drinks. ''I told him no, thanks, there's too much trouble out there.
 ''Hykiem said, 'Yeah, I know, but I got God on my side.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amory Sepulveda, 25, paralyzed after a shooting, talked with Sergio Argueta, an organizer of a rally on Sunday against gang violence. Another organizer, Hykiem Coney, was fatally shot days earlier. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
In Hempstead on Sunday, the audience, including Hykiem Coney's mother, Theresa, listened to speakers at a rally against gang violence. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 Hykiem Coney, 24, died after being shot outside a bar on Oct. 21. (Photo by Karen Wiles Stabile/Newsday)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SHOOTINGS (73%); FAMILY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (66%) Crime and Criminals; Gangs

PERSON: Hykiem Coney; Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hempstead (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



734 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Shares Close Mixed as Wal-Mart Reports Slow Growth

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday after Wal-Mart Stores reported its smallest monthly sales increase in the United States in two years.
 ''The Wal-Mart numbers could be the catalyst for people to scratch their heads and be worried about the economy going forward,'' said Craig Hester, who oversees about $1.4 billion as president of Hester Capital Management in Austin, Tex. ''It's surely the excuse for people to take money off the table.''
Losses in Wal-Mart and Verizon Communications helped pushed the Dow Jones industrial average down 3.76 points, to 12,086.50. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets two-fifths of its value from computer-related shares, added 13.15, or 0.6 percent, to close at 2,363.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.59 at 1,377.93. 
 Wal-Mart slid $1.20, to $49.53. On Saturday, it estimated October sales gains at stores open a least a year at about 0.5 percent, the smallest gain since August 2004. 
 Verizon slumped $1.19, or 3.1 percent, to close at $37.65 as investors took note of a decline in the company's local phone lines. 
 Yahoo gained 61 cents, closing at $25.95 after Merrill Lynch raised its recommendation on the stock to buy from neutral, saying that new advertising software would lift sales. Yahoo's close stretched its winning streak to eight days.
 Red Hat, the biggest distributor of Linux computer software, jumped for a second day, climbing 88 cents, to $16.51. On Friday, Red Hat said it would buy back as much as $325 million in shares and bonds. The announcement came a day after its shares plunged when Oracle, another software company, said it would begin offering competing services at a lower price.
 American Power Conversion, which makes surge protectors for computers and other devices, had the steepest rally in the S.& P. 500. Its shares soared $6.26, or 26 percent, to $30.02. Schneider Electric of France, the world's biggest maker of circuit breakers, offered to buy American Power Conversion for $6.1 billion.
 Lockheed Martin, the military contractor, added $2.42, to $87.03 after it was raised to buy from neutral by Goldman Sachs. Lockheed may raise its 2007 earnings forecast and use cash reserves to increase its dividend, repay debt or repurchase stock, Richard Safran, an analyst, wrote in a note.
 Energy shares were the biggest drag on the S.& P. ConocoPhillips declined $1.39, to $59.80, and Chevron dropped $1.29, to $66.39.
 Crude oil futures fell 2.4 percent, to $58.36 a barrel, as forecasts showed that warm weather in the United States would reduce demand for heating fuels, bolstering inventories. Oil prices have plunged 25 percent from the record of $78.40 a barrel reached July 14.
 Because of oil's retreat from its high, energy shares are ''not a place you're going to see tremendous relative performance,'' Mr. Hester said.
 Shares of health care providers dropped after they reported earnings. Tenet Healthcare, the hospital chain, fell 88 cents, or 11 percent, to $7.42 for the sharpest slide in the S.& P. Tenet, the second-largest hospital chain in the United States, said it had a third-quarter net loss of as much as 20 cents a share. Analysts expected a loss of 1 cent, on average. Tenet said its debt expenses had been higher than expected and that it had ''continuing softness'' in managed care volumes.
 Humana, a provider of Medicare drug benefits, dropped $4.09, or 6.2 percent, to $61.61 after the chief executive, Michael McCallister, told investors that new competitors with ''lower prices or better benefits'' made it too early to tell how much Humana's Medicare business would grow beyond 2007.
 Prices of United States Treasuries were mixed yesterday. The benchmark 10-year note was unchanged at 101 18/32. Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills: 
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.742	97.494	High Rate	4.975	4.955	Investment Rate	5.108	5.153	Low Rate	4.960	4.900	Median Rate	4.970	4.940	Total applied for	$53,089,302	$44,576,102	Accepted	$24,229,552	$21,450,402	Noncompetitive	$2,007,293	$1,802,151	

Both issues are dated Nov. 02, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 1, 2007, and the six-month bills mature on May 3, 2007.

 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks position of the aforementioned from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); POWER SUPPLY & CONVERTER MFG (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); FUTURES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); ENERGY MARKETS (67%); WIRING DEVICE MFG (67%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (62%); SWITCHGEAR MFG (61%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Finances; Credit

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (80%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); APC-MGE (53%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (52%); SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC SA (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); COP (NYSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (52%); SU (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (80%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (80%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335313 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3613 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS (52%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



735 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Rose Last Month; Spending Was Restrained

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Americans' incomes rose last month at the quickest pace since June, but consumers did not respond by rushing out to splurge as gasoline prices fell from their summer peak.
 Instead, they spent at about the same pace and put more money aside. As a result, the nationwide personal savings rate came the closest it has in a year and a half to climbing out of the red.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that personal income in September increased at a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 0.5 percent, compared with 0.4 percent in August. Personal consumption spending, meanwhile, rose 0.1 percent in September after a 0.2 percent increase in August. 
 The net personal savings figure improved in September to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of minus $15 billion, compared with minus $49 billion in August. And while Americans are still living richer lives than their paychecks can sustain, savings have not been healthier since May 2005. They have been in the red since the month before, in April 2005.
 With Americans earning more and spending more, economists expect that the gross domestic product will expand faster than it did in the third quarter. On Friday, the Commerce Department reported growth of 1.6 percent from July through September -- by far the slowest quarter this year.
 A number of factors, including falling gas prices and growing disposable income, are likely to lift consumer spending modestly in the months ahead. 
 ''The current environment of declining energy prices and healthy wage growth is a pretty potent combination going forward,'' said Drew Matus, senior economist with Lehman Brothers. ''It would not be surprising if you saw consumption continue to increase to some degree.''
 Most experts agree that any increase in consumer spending in the remainder of the year will not be a striking one. ''This isn't going to unlock a spending frenzy,'' said Brian A. Bethune, an economist with the research firm Global Insight. ''It's going to be moderate, but it's not going to be explosive.''
 When last month's spending figures are adjusted for inflation, they indicate more growth. Spending increased 0.4 percent in September when inflation was factored in, as distinct from 0.1 percent growth excluding price increases. The rise reflected an increase last month in purchases of durable goods -- big-ticket items like vehicles and home appliances. Real disposable income grew 0.8 percent in September when adjusted for inflation, or 0.5 percent unadjusted.
 Aggregate measures of income, like the one in yesterday's report, have had healthy gains over the last year. But government reports have consistently found that the pay of most Americans has not kept up with inflation, suggesting to economists that the overall gains are largely a result of big increases among households in the very top income brackets.
 Yesterday's report also showed that inflation tempered somewhat in September. That is consistent with the Federal Reserve's view that the slowing economy will moderate rising prices. Still, a measure of inflation remains above what the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said is healthy.
 In remarks yesterday in Baltimore, an inflation hawk, Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., repeated his concern that inflation remained uncomfortably high. At the last three Fed meetings, Mr. Lacker has been the only member of the Fed's rate-setting committee to vote for an increase in the benchmark overnight lending rate. Since August, the Fed has voted three times to hold the rate steady at 5.25 percent.
 The Fed prefers that the ''core rate'' of growth in personal consumption spending, which excludes the volatile prices of food and energy, not exceed 1 percent a year, and it regards anything over 2 percent as too high. 
 In September, the core measure was up 2.4 percent compared with September 2005. Still, that was a little better than August, when the core rate was up 2.5 percent, an 11-year high.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Personal Income''Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Personal Income and SpendingSept.Income: $11.10Consumption: 9.40CHANGE FROM Aug.Income: +0.5%Consumption: +0.1(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Gross Domestic Product; Income; Savings

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



736 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CLAIMS AGAINST CHEVRON DROPPED -- The Interior Department has dropped claims that the Chevron Corporation systematically underpaid the government for natural gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico, a decision that could allow energy companies to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in royalties. Shares of Chevron fell yesterday after crude-oil futures declined 3.9 percent to $58.36 a barrel. [Page A1.] 


CHARGES OVER DELPHI RESULTS -- The Securities and Exchange Commission filed civil fraud charges yesterday against nine former executives at Delphi, the automotive parts supplier, accusing them of manipulating the company's finances to project a healthy facade while it descended into bankruptcy. [C1.]

NEWSPAPER CIRCULATION PLUMMETS -- The circulation of the nation's daily newspapers plunged over the last year in one of its sharpest declines in recent history, according to data released yesterday. The slide continues a decades-long trend and adds to the woes of a mature industry already beset by layoffs and the potential sale of some of its flagships. [C1.]

INSURERS SEEK U.S. RELIEF -- Even as profits on home insurance are soaring, some of the nation's big insurers are turning to Washington in a bid to gain protection against future catastrophic losses. [C1.]

PENTAGON AND WEAPONS SALES -- The Pentagon runs a little-publicized giveaway and tag sale program to clean out its overstuffed attics and closets, which are bulging amid the greatest weapons buildup since the Reagan era. The Pentagon also uses the program to reward government friends and allies across the globe with equipment the Pentagon says it no longer needs. [C1.]

OIL AND NORTH KOREA -- China cut off oil exports to North Korea in September during heightened tension over North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, Chinese trade statistics show. [A12.]

PERSONAL INCOMES RISE -- Americans' incomes rose last month at the quickest pace since June, but consumers did not respond by rushing out to splurge even as gasoline prices fell from their summer peak. [C5.]

HOUSING SITE UNDER FIRE -- Zillow, the Web site that provides free home valuations, has been accused by a coalition of community activist groups of undervaluing the homes in black and Latino neighborhoods. [C7.]

KFC TO REMOVE TRANS FAT -- Kentucky Fried Chicken said that it would remove trans fat, the artery clogging substance, from its fryers. [C3.]

REPORT ON REFINERY EXPLOSION -- The oil company BP had ''significant knowledge'' years ago of the problems that caused the explosion at its Texas City refinery in March 2005 that killed 15 workers and injured 180, a federal safety panel said. [C3.]

HEDGE FUND TO CLOSE -- Archeus Capital, a highflying hedge fund that just a year ago had assets of $3 billion, informed its investors that it would close. [C3.]

MERCK MAKES ACQUISITION -- Merck will pay $1.1 billion to acquire Sirna Therapeutics, one of the leading companies that is pursuing a gene technology known as RNA interference. [C3.]

NEW TURN IN SHELTER CASE -- Federal prosecutors overseeing a huge tax-shelter case against former employees of the accounting firm KPMG are seeking to introduce evidence that some of the defendants received secret payments from three little-known investment boutiques. [C3.]

VERIZON EARNINGS RISE 2.8% -- Verizon Communications said its earnings grew 2.8 percent in the third quarter, driven largely by its mobile phone company, Verizon Wireless. But its shares fell as it reported a drop in local phone lines. [C5.]

SHAPING AN INTERNET COMPANY -- The early efforts of Michael Jackson, programming president at IAC/InterActiveCorp, left, are now coming into view: He is thinking big by going small, investing in and starting targeted Internet sites built around humor, news and popular culture. [C1.]

WARNING ON CLIMATE CHANGE -- Britain warned that failure to act swiftly on global warming would have a cataclysmic effect on the global economy. [A8.]

NEW OUTLETS FOR NIKE -- Nike is expanding into nontraditional media as it introduces the next version of sneakers endorsed by the basketball star LeBron James. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C8.]

BOTTLENECKS AT AIRPORTS -- The United States has relaxed its airplane liquids ban, but wine purchased outside the airport still cannot be carried on a plane. As a result, wine dealers, teachers and consultants have been forced to rethink how to get bottles to tastings and client meetings. [C6.]

ONLINE

RETIREMENT REPORT -- Bobbie Battista, an ex-CNN anchor, took a corporate buyout package. Now she and others are proving that a career switch in midlife is highly achievable. A special report is at nytimes.com/business.

ADVERTISING SPOTLIGHT -- Stuart Elliott, a columnist, reports on advertising trends in a podcast at nytimes.com/podcasts.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

THE ASSETS of F. David Radler, the former publisher of The Chicago Sun-Times, were recently frozen by a Canadian court at the request of Hollinger Inc., Conrad M. Black's former holding company. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

TARO PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES said yesterday that its chief financial officer had quit over an investigation into the restatement of its results for 2003 and 2004. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of Chevron for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (79%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OILS & FATS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATISTICS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); TRENDS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); HOME PRICES (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (94%); ZILLOW INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (94%); Z (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



737 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN: Politics and Principles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: Campaign to End Race Preferences Splits Michigan 

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich., Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Three years after the Supreme Court heard Jennifer Gratz's challenge to the University of Michigan's affirmative action policy, she is still fighting racial preferences, this time in a Michigan ballot initiative.
 ''We have a horrible history when it comes to race in this country,'' said Ms. Gratz, 29, a white applicant who was wait-listed 11 years ago at the state's flagship campus here. ''But that doesn't make it right to give preference to the son of a black doctor at the expense of a poor student whose parents didn't go to college.''
The ballot initiative, Proposition 2, which would amend Michigan's Constitution to bar public institutions from considering race or sex in public education, employment or contracting, has drawn wide opposition from the state's civic establishment, including business and labor, the Democratic governor and her Republican challenger. But polls show voters are split, with significant numbers undecided or refusing to say where they stand. 
 Passage would probably reinvigorate challenges to a variety of affirmative action programs in other states. In California, where a similar proposition passed in 1996, the number of black students at the elite public universities has dropped. This fall, 96 of 4,800 freshmen at the University of California, Los Angeles -- 2 percent -- are black, a 30-year low. 
 For the University of Michigan, the proposition would require broader changes than the Supreme Court did; it ruled in Ms. Gratz's case and a companion case that while the consideration of race as part of the law school's admissions policy was constitutional, a formula giving extra points to minority undergraduate applicants was not.
 The president of the university, Mary Sue Coleman, an opponent of the proposition, said its reach could extend into K to 12 education.
 ''It would make it illegal to have our program targeting girls in junior high school, and having them come to campus to learn about science and engineering,'' Ms. Coleman said. ''I'm a woman scientist, and I know how fragile our gains are.''
 Such arguments have resonance in Ann Arbor, where the Democratic headquarters is doing a brisk business in ''No on 2'' yard signs. 
 ''We need to keep affirmative action because it's still not a level playing field for women or minorities,'' said Gena Morris, who is black, an event planner who volunteers at Democratic headquarters.
 Susan Greenberg, a widow whose husband was a University of Michigan professor, took home a yard sign recently, saying, ''It's probably the most important thing on the ballot.''
 Just 20 miles north of the liberal university enclave, in Brighton, there is less familiarity with the proposition but more opposition to affirmative action. 
 ''I don't know a lot about Proposition 2, but I do know a neighbor kid, a good kid, a local kid with a 3.7-3.8 average, who didn't get into the university and he should have,'' said Vicki Smith, who is white, shopping one afternoon at Kohls department store. ''I do think there's something wrong with their admissions.'' 
 Pollsters, in fact, say the Nov. 7 results may well turn on whether the measure is seen primarily as a race issue. 
 ''If voters think about it as being about race, black and white, support goes up,'' said Ed Sarpolus, vice president of EPIC-MRA, a polling firm in Lansing. ''So the opponents are trying to show that it's not just race, that it would hurt women, hurt Michigan's economy, and they're having some success with that.'' 
 Though most of the debate on the proposition has been about race and college admissions -- four out of five Michigan residents are white -- the ballot initiative is also playing out against the state's somber economic picture of high unemployment, high migration of young people and a wrenching transition away from manufacturing.
 Opposition to Proposition 2 is strongest in majority-black Detroit and a few liberal strongholds like Ann Arbor. Like California's Proposition 209, which passed in 1996, Proposition 2 has been backed by Ward Connerly, a wealthy black Republican who is a former University of California regent. If Mr. Connerly is successful in Michigan, and maybe even if he is not, he is likely to carry the fight to other states. 
 ''When my toes turn up, that's when I'll stop fighting this,'' said Mr. Connerly, who has provided nearly $500,000 for the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative, the group Ms. Gratz leads. ''As John F. Kennedy said,'' he continued, ''race has no place in public life.''
 As of Oct. 20, the group had raised $1.4 million and spent $782,000.
 Ms. Gratz, who grew up in a working-class suburb of Detroit, graduated among the top 15 in a high school class of about 300. But she only made the wait list for the Ann Arbor campus of the University of Michigan and never returned the postcard that would have kept her on the list for available spaces.
 She graduated from the University of Michigan-Dearborn with a math degree and became a product manager at a technology company. She also pursued the suit against the university. She called Mr. Connerly soon after the Supreme Court ruled on her case, and they began working on the Michigan proposition. It has been her full-time job for three years. 
 Opposition to the measure is led by One United Michigan, an unusually broad coalition that includes Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat, and her Republican challenger, Dick DeVos, as well as unions, churches, businesses and higher education and civil rights groups. It has raised and spent $3.3 million. 
 ''We have the A.C.L.U. sitting with the Michigan Catholic Conference on the steering committee, which is something you don't see very often, '' said David Waymire, a coalition spokesman. ''There isn't a big Michigan voice on the other side. But it's tough. Two years ago, the initial polling found more than two-thirds supported the proposition. The miracle is that we've gotten it into a winnable range.'' 
 Coalition members said Proposition 2 would hamper employers' efforts to diversify their work forces. They said it would also force some local governments to eliminate outreach and set-aside programs for minority contractors and would diminish the already-meager representation of black and Hispanic students at the flagship university here. 
 ''It would be like slamming a door on progress,'' Ms. Coleman said. ''I will do everything that's legal to help us attract minority students. But it's already having a chilling effect.''
 This year, the freshman class at the Ann Arbor campus has 330 blacks, or 6.4 percent, down from the high of 499 in 2001, and from 350 in the year after the Supreme Court case, when a new admissions process was adopted. Over all, blacks make up 7.2 percent of the undergraduates. But there are other ways to look at the numbers. 
 The Center for Equal Opportunity in Virginia, which supports the proposition, released an analysis of University of Michigan data finding that black applicants who were accepted by the university had lower grades and SAT scores than white applicants who were admitted. The median SAT for black students who were admitted was 1160 in 2005, it said, compared with 1350 for whites.
 The center said the university now weighed race and ethnicity even more heavily than before the Supreme Court ruling. 
 The university disagrees. ''Their analysis is flat-out wrong and carefully calculated to achieve a political outcome,'' said Julie Peterson, a university spokeswoman.
 She said that the center overlooked factors added to the admissions process after the ruling, like recommendations, essays and extracurricular activities, and that the data on which the center based its conclusions did not include all applicants.
 Ms. Peterson and others at the university emphasized that because there were so many white applicants and so few blacks, an end to affirmative action would not substantially increase white students' odds of admission. In their book, ''The Shape of the River,'' Derek C. Bok and William G. Bowen estimated that if selective universities had race-blind admissions, the probability of white students' admission would rise only slightly -- to 26.5 percent from 25 percent -- while black students' admissions would decline by half.
 Wade Henderson, executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights said the proposition would help determine the future of affirmative action. 
 ''Michigan is ground zero in the national debate on the meaning of equal opportunity,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''It's really important that we stop this, before Ward Connerly takes the battle to other states.'' 
 But in many quarters here, public support remained strong, which Ms. Gratz said indicated just how much Michigan's power brokers were out of touch with voters. 
 ''The entire elite establishment is all lined up on the other side of this issue,'' Ms. Gratz said, ''but the mainstream, normal, everyday people who go to work every day think their husbands, their wives, their kids, should be treated equally by our government, and should not be judged on race or sex.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leaflets at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor urging voters to oppose the ballot initiative. The university's president, Mary Sue Coleman, is against it, saying, ''It would be like slamming a door on progress.''
 Jennifer Gratz, whose challenge to the University of Michigan's affirmative action policy went to the Supreme Court, is involved in Proposition 2. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); REFERENDUMS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); BALLOTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); APPEALS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%) Referendums ; Affirmative Action; Hiring and Promotion; Blacks; Public Opinion; Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Election Issues; Elections; Governors (US); Organized Labor; Religion and Churches; Law Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) University of Michigan

PERSON: Tamar Lewin; Jennifer M (Gov) Granholm; Dick Devos

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) Michigan; Detroit (Mich); Michigan; Ann Arbor (Mich); Michigan

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



738 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: An African Tale to Break Your Heart

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Africa's World of Forced Labor, in a 6-Year-Old's Eyes'' (front page, Oct. 29):
 The story and photographs of Mark Kwadwo, the 6-year-old who is indentured to a fisherman in Ghana, are heartbreaking.
 It is especially wrenching to read of the desperate comments that Mark and the other boys whispered to the reporter, probably the only sympathetic adult they have ever encountered. 
 It seems ironic that the boys' words and photographs can appear for all the world to see but that it would take a miracle -- or years of lobbying for changes in labor laws and attitudes and economics -- to lift them out of their tragic lives.
 I'm sure that I'm not the only reader who wonders what I can do to help them today.

Ann Malaspina
Ridgewood, N.J., Oct. 29, 2006

To the Editor:
 I surprised myself by falling into tears after finishing your article. For me, the most profound moment was reading that Kofi Quarshie, 10, believes that his parents sold him because they didn't like him.
 I quickly started wondering, though, just what we get from hearing about such things without much suggestion of action or hope. 
 I teach high school economics and government through an educational nonprofit, and in staff meetings we often recognize the danger of sending our students into total despair with the news of the world, as such despair almost inevitably leads to hopelessness and, worse, powerlessness. 
 There are moments when there is value in simply feeling the deep pain of another's situation. But in an age when most of us, and certainly most of my students, already feel powerless about what happens in the world, a little bit of guidance toward action -- anything to hang on to -- would have been both kind and potentially helpful for all.

Rachel Balkcom
Santa Fe, N.M., Oct. 29, 2006

To the Editor:
 Your Oct. 29 front-page article about African children sold into indentured servitude ran near an article about a motivation of United States foreign aid in some cases being more about the politics of keeping jobs in this country than about helping people overseas (''U.S. Jobs Shape Condoms' Role in Foreign Aid'').
 I was overcome with a deep sense of sadness for the bitter labor of 6-year-old African boys and the hard lives of American workers struggling to get by. 
 And I felt deep shame that the most powerful nation in the world falls stunningly short of its obligation for global leadership.
 When will our lawmakers develop creative solutions that support good, sustainable jobs at home while maintaining integrity in our aid to people born in desperate circumstances overseas? 
 When will the American public demand this of our leaders, through exercising its right to vote next Tuesday and by holding our leaders accountable between elections?

Kitty Hsu Dana
Bethesda, Md., Oct. 29, 2006

To the Editor:
 According to Save the Children, 55 percent of the women in West Africa give birth before they are 20; pregnancy and childbirth were the leading cause of death in girls aged 15 to 19 in the poorer developing countries; and among the highest-risk countries for early motherhood ''infant and maternal death or disability'' were Niger, Liberia and Mali. 
 Therefore, child labor and exploitation would not be unexpected or uncommon.
 The obvious first step is to help average Africans defer childbearing to prepare families for parenthood.

Elizabeth Madrigal
Ridgefield, Wash., Oct. 29, 2006

To the Editor:
 The use of forced child labor in Ghana, so vividly portrayed in your article, leads to the question, What can be done about this horrific practice?
 There is one person who could try to organize pressure on the Ghanaian government to put an end to the exploitation of child labor -- essentially slave labor -- and let the world know that such practices will not be tolerated. 
 That is Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, who is himself a Ghanaian.

Donald Wyner
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 30, 2006

To the Editor:
 An underlying cause of the tragedy of child trafficking is gender inequality. Girls are not educated and are therefore illiterate. They are forced into marriage at an early age. They have little control over their own fertility. They are economically disempowered. 
 In these circumstances of extreme poverty and lack of hope, the unnatural act of selling children into forced labor becomes ''natural.'' When the world starts taking care of its women and girls, things might change. But don't hold your breath.

Jane Roberts
Redlands, Calif., Oct. 29, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); CHILD LABOR (78%); CHILDREN (75%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); LOBBYING (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Labor; Child Labor; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: Ann Malaspina; Rachel Balkcom; Kitty Hsu Dana; Elizabeth Madrigal; Donald Wyner; Jane Roberts; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); GHANA (92%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



739 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: The Immoral Majority

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
As usual, Republicans are hoping that righteous voters will come through for them on Election Day. But this year looks like the revenge of the sinners.
 The sinners aren't easy to count, since they don't spend a lot of time doing grass-roots politicking. There is no Washington lobby for the Coalition of the Damned. They don't like to confess their urges to pollsters. But there are enough of them, particularly in places where Republicans are struggling, to cast doubt on the party's long-standing strategy.
Why did Republicans assume there was a Moral Majority? Where in the Bible does it say that the virtuous outnumber the wicked? When you define wickedness the way Republicans do, the numbers are daunting. 
 One of the G.O.P. Congress's few achievements this year was a law to crack down on Internet gambling, an industry that counted eight million American customers last year -- about four times the membership of the Christian Coalition. The new law hasn't stopped the online gamblers from betting, but it will give them second thoughts about voting Republican.
 The Republican war on marijuana -- the chief priority of the current drug czar -- isn't playing any better in the heartland. More than 40 percent of people over the age of 12 have tried marijuana, and more than three-quarters of Americans support legalizing it for medical purposes. The White House and the Justice Department have had little luck in their attempts to stop states from legalizing medical marijuana, but they have succeeded in alienating voters.
 These federal intrusions are especially scorned by independent voters in the Western states where Republicans have been losing ground, like Colorado, Nevada, Arizona and Montana. Western Democrats have been siphoning off libertarian voters by moderating their liberal views on issues like gun control, but Republicans have been driving libertarians away with their wars on vice and their jeremiads against gay marriage (and their attempt to regulate that from Washington, too). 
 Libertarian voters tend to get ignored by political strategists because they're not easy to categorize or organize. They don't congregate in churches or union halls; they don't unite to push political agendas. Many don't even call themselves libertarians, although they qualify because of their social liberalism and economic conservatism: they want the government out of their bedrooms as well as their wallets. 
 They distrust moral busybodies of both parties, and they may well be the most important bloc of swing voters this election, as David Boaz and David Kirby conclude in a new study for the Cato Institute. Analyzing a variety of voter surveys, they estimate that libertarians make up about 15 percent of voters -- a bloc roughly comparable in size to liberals and to conservative Christians, and far bigger than blocs like Nascar dads or soccer moms.
 They're especially prevalent in the West, where half a dozen states have legalized medical marijuana. When Californians approved one of the first medical marijuana laws, in 1996, drug warriors were so convinced it would lead to a catastrophic spike in illegal use by teenagers that they sponsored a study to document the damage. But there was no catastrophe: after the law, marijuana use by teenagers actually declined in California. 
 In the decade since, as the Marijuana Policy Project documented in a recent study, popular support for legalized medical marijuana has increased in California and in virtually every other state with a similar law. Last year it was favored by 78 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll.
 Yet these realities still haven't registered with Republicans in Washington. This year the White House drug czar, John Walters, and his minions have been out campaigning in Nevada, Colorado and South Dakota, which have marijuana initiatives on the ballot. The drug warriors are still sounding the discredited alarms about youths turning into potheads. Their fervor's not surprising -- they may even believe their own hype. 
 What's surprising is the political stupidity of the meddling. Westerners, no matter what they think of marijuana, don't appreciate sermons from federal officials on how to vote. In 2002, when the White House campaigned against another marijuana ballot initiative in Nevada, the state's attorney general said it was ''disturbing'' to see the federal interference in a state election. 
 This year, with Republicans in so much trouble in the West, the missionaries from Washington aren't doing them any favors. They need every sinner's vote they can get. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (90%); CANNABIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (71%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (71%); PARENTS (70%); GAMING (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); GUN CONTROL (68%); HERBAL MEDICINE (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Election Issues; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Drug Legalization; Marijuana; Computers and the Internet; Gambling

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (58%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Western States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



740 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drops Bid Over Royalties From Chevron

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The Interior Department has dropped claims that the Chevron Corporation systematically underpaid the government for natural gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico, a decision that could allow energy companies to avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars in royalties.
 The agency had ordered Chevron to pay $6 million in additional royalties but could have sought tens of millions more had it prevailed. The decision also sets a precedent that could make it easier for oil and gas companies to lower the value of what they pump each year from federal property and thus their payments to the government.
Interior officials said on Friday that they had no choice but to drop their order to Chevron because a department appeals board had ruled against auditors in a separate case.
 But state governments and private landowners have challenged the company over essentially the same practices and reached settlements in which the company has paid $70 million in additional royalties. 
 In a written statement, the department's Minerals Management Service said it would have been useless to fight Chevron.
 ''It is not in the public interest to spend federal dollars pursuing claims that have little or no chance of success,'' the agency said. ''M.M.S. lost a contested and controversial issue'' before the appeals board. ''Had we simply wanted to capitulate to 'big oil,' the agency would not have issued the order in the first place.''
 Chevron said in a written statement that it ''endeavors to calculate and pay its oil and gas royalties correctly,'' and it said that the Interior Department had agreed. 
 The agency notified Chevron of its decision in a confidential letter on Aug. 3, which The New York Times obtained recently under the Freedom of Information Act.
 The reversal in the case, which involves Chevron's accounting of natural gas sales to a company it partly owned, has renewed criticism that the Bush administration is reluctant to confront oil and gas companies and is lax in collecting royalties. 
 ''The government is giving up without a fight,'' said Richard T. Dorman, a lawyer representing private citizens suing Chevron over its federal royalty payments. ''If this decision is left standing, it would result in the loss of tens of millions, if not hundreds of millions, of dollars in royalties owed by other companies.''
 In return for the right to drill on federal lands and in federal waters, energy companies are required to pay the government a share of their proceeds. Last year, businesses producing natural gas paid $5.15 billion in government royalties.
 But the Bush administration has come under fire on Capitol Hill for its record on collecting payments. While the Interior Department has sweetened incentives for exploration and pushed to open wilderness areas for drilling, it has also cut back on full-scale audits of companies intended to make sure they are paying their full share.
 Administration officials knew that dozens of companies had incorrectly claimed exemptions from royalties since 2003, but they waited until December 2005 to send letters demanding about $500 million in repayments. 
 In February, the Interior Department acknowledged that oil companies could escape more than $7 billion in payments because of mistakes in leases signed in the 1990s. Top officials are trying to renegotiate those deals, but some Republicans and Democrats have complained that the administration is dragging its feet.
 In addition, four government auditors last month publicly accused the Interior Department of blocking their efforts to recover more than $30 million from the Shell Oil Corporation, the Kerr-McGee Corporation and other major companies. 
 ''This latest revelation proves that the Bush administration is incapable of preventing big oil companies from cheating taxpayers,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a senior Democrat on the House Committee on Resources. ''The public has been systematically fleeced out of royalties that these companies owe for the privilege of drilling for oil and gas on lands belonging to all of us.''
 The Chevron case offers a glimpse into what is normally a secretive process. To protect what energy companies consider proprietary information, the Interior Department does not announce that it is accusing companies of underpaying royalties nor does it announce its settlements in these disputes. The government also does not disclose how much money each company pays in royalties. 
 In theory, companies are required to pay the government a royalty of 12 percent to 16 percent of their sales. In practice, the definition of sales is as convoluted as a Rubik's Cube.
 In the Chevron case, auditors in the Minerals Management Service were addressing an issue that had bedeviled royalty enforcement for decades: How does the government make sure it gets its due when companies sell natural gas to businesses they partly own?
 In 1996, Chevron sold its holdings in more than 50 processing plants to Dynegy in exchange for a 26 percent stake in the natural gas company, which is based in Houston. For the next seven years, Chevron sold virtually all its domestic natural gas to Dynegy for processing. 
 In their original accusations, dating to 2001, the auditors asserted that Chevron had understated sales, and hence its royalty obligations, by inflating costs for processing gas at Dynegy. 
 Companies are allowed to deduct processing costs from their sales revenues when they calculate their royalty obligations. Processing involves separating water and a variety of liquid fuels like propane and methane from raw natural gas. The auditors' accusations were not unique. State officials in New Mexico challenged Chevron over the same issue -- ''non-arms-length'' deals, as regulators call them -- and Chevron agreed to pay $10.4 million in extra royalties without admitting wrongdoing. Private property owners who leased land to Chevron sued over the same issue in Oklahoma, and the company paid $60 million last year to settle out of court. 
 ''The natural gas processing business lends itself almost uniquely to chicanery,'' said Spencer Hosie, a lawyer who has represented the states of Louisiana and Alaska in several court fights over oil and gas royalties. ''It is a complicated and opaque business, and there are many opportunities to shade judgments and numbers.''
 From 2001 to 2003, after detailed audits of several Chevron leases, the Interior Department said the company was reducing its ''sales value'' by exaggerating processing costs at six of Dynegy's many plants. At one plant, auditors estimated Chevron had claimed five times the actual costs.
 At first glance, the suspected underpayments seemed trivial: about $6 million out of hundreds of millions in royalties. But the audits were limited to only a handful of plants. Had the Interior Department pressed its claims successfully, it could have recovered money tied to all the other plants, and for other years.
 Chevron paid the $6 million but appealed. The file in that case now runs more than 900 pages, most of it still off-limits to the public.
 Mr. Hosie, who represented Louisiana in a lawsuit that led to a $100 million verdict against Chevron over underpaid oil royalties, expressed surprise at the federal government's decision in the natural gas case.
 ''Is it even remotely likely that oil companies systematically underpay private royalty owners and state governments, but pay the federal government perfectly properly?'' Mr. Hosie asked. ''Isn't it more likely they are underpaying everybody?''
 A Chevron spokesman, Donald Campbell, saidlaws regulating state and private leases often differed significantly from those of the federal government. ''The rules governing valuation vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction,'' Mr. Campbell said in a statement.
 Chevron argued that New Mexico's rules presumed that a deal was ''not at arms length'' -- and that costs had to be calculated differently -- if one company owned 10 percent to 50 percent of the other. The federal regulations, Chevron said, required auditors to consider additional factors before making such a determination. Because of a backlog, the appeals board had not considered Chevron's appeal when Interior Department officials decided they could not win. But if the appeals board had overruled the auditors, federal regulations would have allowed the interior secretary to let a federal court decide the issue.
 In their letter to Chevron, department officials did not say the underlying facts had changed. Rather, they noted that the agency's Board of Land Appeals had rejected similar accusations about non-arm's-length agreements involving two other companies, Vastar Resources and Southern Companies. 
 The appeals board ruled in 2005 that the Minerals Management Service had failed to show that Vastar had any real control over a partnership it had formed with Southern to sell its gas. The board said Vastar had provided ''uncontroverted evidence'' that the sales prices had been negotiated at arm's length between companies with ''opposing economic interests.''
 But the Chevron case differed in several important ways.
 The government never audited Vastar in reaching its conclusions and had provided a largely theoretical opinion when the company asked for guidance. By contrast, auditors had scrutinized Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., and Dynegy and backed their arguments with supporting data. 
 Chevron's ties with Dynegy also appeared to be closer than those between the other companies. Chevron described Dynegy as an affiliate in some reports to shareholders. Chevron was also Dynegy's biggest supplier of raw natural gas, its biggest customer for gas processing and one of its biggest for processing byproducts like propane and methane.
 Administration officials said they had ''carefully reviewed'' similarities and differences between the cases, but offered little elaboration.
 ''We recognize that other parties may assert various arguments regarding the relationship between the Vastar and Chevron situations,'' the Minerals Management Service said in its written response to questions, ''but the agency's evaluation and deliberative processes are privileged.''
 John Bemis, the assistant commissioner for gas and minerals in New Mexico, said his state was challenging a growing number of such alliances. In addition to the $10.4 million royalty settlement with Chevron, New Mexico persuaded ConocoPhillips to settle a similar case in August for $9.5 million and is negotiating with BP in a third case.
 Interior Department officials have shown little interest in evidence from either New Mexico's experience or a current court fight with Chevron over federal royalties.
 On July 11, three weeks before the department dropped its case against Chevron, Mr. Dorman and other lawyers involved in a Texas lawsuit against Chevron wrote to Interior Department officials. The lawyers, who represent a whistle-blower seeking to recover money for the federal government, said they were suing Chevron over the same issues the department had raised.
 ''All we were saying was that they should wait to see what evidence we turned up, and that we would gladly share everything we had with them,'' Mr. Dorman said. His firm faxed a letter to the policy appeals division. Getting no response, the lawyers sent a copy by U.P.S. Six days later, it was returned. The reason, according to the U.P.S. label: ''Receiver did not want, refused delivery.''
 The agency confirmed in a statement that it knew of the lawyers' case. Asked why it refused to accept their letter, the Minerals Management Service said it could not comment ''because these matters are the subject of pending litigation.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Oct. 31 about the Interior Department's decision to drop its claims that the Chevron Corporation underpaid the government for natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico incorrectly described methane. It is the principal component that remains in the gas after processing, not a liquid that is separated from raw gas during processing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard T. Dorman said the federal government quit without a fight and stood to lose millions in royalties. (Photo by Bill Starling for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Tracking a Deal''The federal government collects royalties of 12 percent to 16 percent of the natural gas produced from federal property. Federal auditors said Chevron reduced its royalties by paying inflated processing costs to a company it partly owned. Chevron says it paid appropriately.CHEVRONIn 1996, Chevron sold its interest in more than 50 natural gas processing plants to Dynegy in exchange for a 26 percent stake in the company.1. Chevron's offshore wells produce natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico. The company owes royalties on the extracted gas but is allowed to clean and process it first.2. Chevron sells all its annual domestic gas production to Dynegy.3. Dynegy processes most of the gas itself.4. Dynegy resells the gas at market prices.5. Chevron pays royalties on the processed gas. Auditors said Chevron underpaid because of excessive deductions for processing fees.Dynegy keeps as much as 25 percent of the gas and other byproducts as a processing fee.Chevron receives at least 26 percent of Dynegy's profit from the processing fees.Chevron owns 26 percent of Dynegy.(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (63%); WILDERNESS (60%) Gas (Fuel); Royalties; Suits and Litigation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (83%) Interior Department; Chevron Corp; Minerals Management Service

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (93%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



741 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Below The Surface

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The crucial issue this year is Iraq, and the most important issue this decade may be the risk that nuclear proliferation results in the incineration of Wall Street by terrorists. Both topics are spurring useful debate this campaign season.
 But one of the more important issues this century is generating no serious discussion on the campaign trail. And, in place of a drumroll, let's look at the chemistry experiment in which we're all taking part.
If you think of the earth's surface as a great beaker, then it's filled mostly with ocean water. It is slightly alkaline, and that's what creates a hospitable home for fish, coral reefs and plankton -- and indirectly, higher up the food chain, for us. 
 But scientists have discovered that the carbon dioxide we're spewing into the air doesn't just heat up the atmosphere and lead to rising seas. Much of that carbon is absorbed by the oceans, and there it produces carbonic acid -- the same stuff found in soda pop.
 That makes oceans a bit more acidic, impairing the ability of certain shellfish to produce shells, which, like coral reefs, are made of calcium carbonate. A recent article in Scientific American explained the indignity of being a dissolving mollusk in an acidic ocean: ''Drop a piece of chalk (calcium carbonate) into a glass of vinegar (a mild acid) if you need a demonstration of the general worry: the chalk will begin dissolving immediately.''
 The more acidic waters may spell the end, at least in higher latitudes, of some of the tiniest variations of shellfish -- certain plankton and tiny snails called pteropods. This would disrupt the food chain, possibly killing off many whales and fish, and rippling up all the way to humans.
 We stand, so to speak, on the shoulders of plankton.
 ''There have been a couple of very big events in geological history where the carbon cycle changed dramatically,'' said Scott Doney, senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts. One was an abrupt warming that took place 55 million years ago in conjunction with acidification of the oceans and mass extinctions. Most scientists don't believe we're headed toward a man-made variant on that episode -- not yet, at any rate. But many worry that we're hurtling into unknown dangers.
 ''Whether in 20 years or 100 years, I think marine ecosystems are going to be dramatically different by the end of this century, and that'll lead to extinction events,'' Mr. Doney added. 
 ''This is the only habitable planet we have,'' he said. ''The damage we do is going to be felt by all the generations to come.''
 So that should be one of the great political issues for this century -- the vandalism we're committing to our planet because of our refusal to curb greenhouse gases. Yet the subject is barely debated in this campaign.
 Changes in ocean chemistry are only one among many damaging consequences of carbon emissions. Evidence is also growing about the more familiar dangers: melting glaciers, changing rainfall patterns, rising seas and more powerful hurricanes.
 Last year, the World Health Organization released a study indicating that climate change results in an extra 150,000 deaths and five million sicknesses each year, by causing the spread of malaria, diarrhea, malnutrition and other ailments.
 A report prepared for the British government and published yesterday, the Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change, warned that inaction ''could create risks of major disruption to economic and social activity, on a scale similar to those associated with the great wars and the economic depression of the first half of the 20th century.''
 If emissions are not curbed, climate change will cut 5 percent to 20 percent of global G.D.P. each year, declared the mammoth report. ''In contrast,'' it said, ''the costs of action -- reducing greenhouse gas emissions to avoid the worst impacts of climate change -- can be limited to around 1 percent of global G.D.P. each year.'' Some analysts put the costs of action higher, but most agree that it makes sense to invest far more in alternative energy sources, both to wean ourselves of oil and to reduce the strain on our planet.
 We know what is needed: a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system, a post-Kyoto accord on emissions cutbacks, and major research on alternative energy sources. But as The Times's Andrew Revkin noted yesterday, spending on energy research and development has fallen by more than half, after inflation, since 1979.
 Melting glaciers and corroding pteropods aren't as sensational as a Congressional page scandal, or as urgent as the Iraq war. But they are just as scandalous. We have no responsibility greater than as stewards of our planet, and we're blowing it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OCEANS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CHEMISTRY (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); MARINE BIOLOGY (75%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); SOFT DRINKS (67%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Election Issues; Weather

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) IRAQ (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



742 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 466 words

PERSON: Arthur Irving Holleb 

HEADLINE: Dr. Arthur Holleb, 85; Promoted Screening for Breast Cancer 

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

 BODY:
Dr. Arthur I. Holleb, a surgical oncologist and educator who as chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society pushed to have mammograms provided to women under 50 and helped the society promote promising new treatments, died on Oct. 19 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85. 
 The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said.
In the 1980s, when Dr. Holleb was with the cancer society, he helped introduce guidelines that called for a more vigorous national effort at early detection. At the time, opinion was divided about the risks and effectiveness of mammography for younger women showing no symptoms of breast cancer. The society concluded that there were substantial benefits in breast X-rays every two or three years for women ages 40 to 49, and annually thereafter, a finding that Dr. Holleb, who specialized in breast cancer, carried to the news media. Today, annual mammograms are recommended for women over 40.
 Dr. LaSalle D. Leffall Jr., a cancer specialist and a professor of surgery at Howard University, said that Dr. Holleb was ''right on top of things in pushing for early detection and prevention'' and that he had been instrumental in encouraging early studies of racial, economic and ethnic disparities among cancer patients. 
 Dr. Leffall, who was president of the American Cancer Society from 1978 to 1979, added that ''there is no question the recommendation for earlier mammograms has been highly effective.''
 Dr. Holleb also spoke out about cancer risks from smoking and what he termed ''the manipulation of young women by cigarette manufacturers,'' in a period when the cancer society's estimates for women's deaths from lung cancer began to outnumber breast cancer deaths. In the 1960s and '70s, he promoted the Pap test for detecting cervical cancer in women.
 With Jane E. Brody, a columnist for The New York Times, he wrote a popular book, ''You Can Fight Cancer and Win'' (1977), which Dr. Leffall said emphasized Dr. Holleb's repeated message that ''if the diagnosis comes early enough, it leads to much higher rates of survival and even to cure.''
 Arthur Irving Holleb was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Brown University, and received his M.D. from New York University in 1944.
 Dr. Holleb trained in surgery at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center before becoming associate director of the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute in Houston, where he was a professor of surgery at the University of Texas.
 In 1968, he was named vice president for medical affairs and chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society. He retired in 1988.
 Dr. Holleb is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Carolyn Oglesby. He is also survived by a son, David, of Gladstone, N.J.; a daughter, Susan Crocker, of Wellesley, Mass.; and four grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BREAST CANCER (93%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (92%); ONCOLOGY (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WOMEN (89%); SMOKING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LUNG CANCER (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); CERVICAL CANCER (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); DIABETES (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (67%); WRITERS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

Jeremy Pearce

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



743 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Bombs Sweep Baghdad; Monthly U.S. Toll Tops 100
A spasm of violence seized Baghdad, as 46 Iraqis were killed in six bombings across the city and a moderate Sunni Arab figure was gunned down by two men on motorcycles. The American toll for October rose to 102, the highest since January 2005. A1

Chad Raids Mirror Darfur's 

Attacks deep inside Chad over the past month echoed raids in the war-ravaged Darfur region of Sudan, but were carried out by Chadian Arabs, not Sudanese as in previous attacks, the victims said. The fact that the attackers were local raised fears of a broader, regional conflict. A3

Pakistan Bombs Islamic School
The Pakistani military said that it had destroyed a religious school near the Afghan border in a raid, killing at least 80 people it described as militants. Among those reported killed was Maulvi Liaqut, a cleric whom the authorities have accused of sheltering local and foreign militants. A6

Israel May Widen Gaza Actions
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel said that Israel may expand military operations in the Gaza Strip, but that it has no intention of reoccupying the territory. A Palestinian militant was killed in Gaza in disputed circumstances. A8

British Warn on Global Warming
A report commissioned by the British government warned that failure to act swiftly on global warming will have a cataclysmic effect on the global economy. The report also predicted apocalyptic effects from climate change. A8

Pilot Said to Ignore Warning
The pilot of a commercial jet that crashed in Nigeria, killing 96 people, had ignored crucial warnings from air traffic controllers about the dangerous stormy weather, aviation officials in Nigeria said. A3

NATIONAL A16-22

State Legislature Races Look Good for Democrats
More than 6,000 state legislative offices in 46 states are on the ballot next week, and as in the seismic elections of 1994 and 1974 their cumulative impact could be immense. Democrats are favored to take control of a majority of state capitals for the first time in a decade. A1

Michigan Weighs Race as Issue
A ballot proposition would amend Michigan's Constitution to ban public institutions from considering race or sex in public education, employment or contracting. Polls show voters split on the matter. A1

New Breed of Dogs for Veterans
While veterans who lose their sight or hearing or must use a wheelchair have long had service dogs as companions, dogs around the country are now being trained to work with people who use both a wheelchair and prosthetics to get around. A16

Red Cross to Cut Board Size
The American Red Cross, which has come under fire for its response to Hurricane Katrina, announced plans to sharply cut back the size and management role of its 50-member board. A16

Nevada to Vote on Smoking Ban
In Nevada, antismoking sentiment appears ready to trump the anything-goes lifestyle. Next week, voters will decide two ballot measures would that restrict where people can smoke. A19

EDUCATION

Deaf Students Renew Demands
After protesters at Gallaudet University, the world's premier university for the deaf, prevailed in ousting the incoming president, they pressed forward with more demands, saying the next choice should be a more forceful advocate for deaf culture and a strong deaf identity. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

In Cuomo's Quest for Post, Father Plays a Subtle Role
No one has been more personally invested in Andrew Cuomo's quest for office than his father, former Governor Mario M. Cuomo, who has worked relentlessly behind the scenes to resurrect, rehabilitate and return the family name to power after his own exile from the governor's mansion 12 years ago. A1

Iraq Returns to Senate Race
Ned Lamont, returning to the issue that won him the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate in August, has begun intensifying his attacks on Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut over the Iraq war. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Fossils Found of a Big Bird
Fossils of the largest known bird, an extinct flightless predator with a skull the size of a horse's and a menacing beak like an eagle's, have been discovered in Argentina, paleontologists reported last week. F3

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-10

Whitney Expansion May Move
The Whitney Museum of American Art, after fighting for more than a year to have an addition to its Madison Avenue building approved, has all but decided that moving its expansion to another site would make more sense, people involved in the process say. E1

OBITUARIES A22-23

Richard Gilman
A drama and literary critic whose voice resonated through four decades in American letters, he was 83. A22

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

U.S. Drops Claim vs. Chevron
The Interior Department has dropped claims that the Chevron Corporation systematically underpaid the government for natural gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The untracked guns of Iraq; assessing the damages; pay to obey; making meals count in New York.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Weather A18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DOGS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); RELIGION (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); HURRICANES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); REFERENDUMS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); BALLOTS (67%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (65%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (64%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); SMOKING (60%); SMOKING BANS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) NEVADA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SUDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



744 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Britain Warns of High Costs of Global Warming

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Britain warned Monday that failure to act swiftly on global warming would have a cataclysmic effect on the global economy and said it was stepping up efforts to get other nations involved. 
 A report commissioned by the government predicted apocalyptic effects from climate change, including droughts, flooding, famine, skyrocketing malaria rates and the extinction of many animal species during the current generation if changes are not made soon.
It said the costs related to climate change, if it is allowed to continue unmitigated, could devour as much as 20 percent of the world's gross domestic product.
 ''The consequences for our planet are literally disastrous,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair said in a speech on the report, one of the most comprehensive attempts to predict the economic impact of global warming.
 ''This disaster is not set to happen in some science-fiction future, many years ahead, but in our lifetime,'' he said. ''What is more, unless we act now, not some time distant but now, these consequences, disastrous as they are, will be irreversible.''
 On the other hand, success in slowing carbon emissions could bring great savings to the world economy, possibly in the range of $2.5 trillion a year, the report estimated. This emphasis seems aimed at the few industrial nations, including the United States, that have refused to join initiatives like the Kyoto Protocol, citing economic reasons.
 President Bush has called Kyoto ''unrealistic'' and its emissions targets arbitrary, saying it would cause layoffs and price increases.
 The presence at the news conference on Monday of Mr. Blair and the chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown, who hopes to succeed him, reinforced the impression that the governing Labor Party was committed to acting on the challenge.
 Britain intends that ''the report should be discussed as widely as possible throughout the world, not just among governments but among international institutions, business leaders, NGOs and civil society,'' Mr. Brown said. He also said he had made former Vice President Al Gore an adviser on environmental issues.
 The 700-page report was compiled by Sir Nicholas Stern, chief of the government economic service and former chief economist of the World Bank. It evaluated a body of scientific studies of global warming from an economic perspective.
 If the sources of greenhouse gases continue unchecked, average temperatures could rise by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius in the next 50 years, the report says. That could leave one-sixth of the world's population facing floods or droughts and reduce crop production in Africa enough to put several hundred million people at risk of starvation.
 Britain produces 2 percent of the world's greenhouse gases, but it has been one of the loudest voices on global warming and has established some of the world's most punitive taxes on carbon emissions. It already has met its Kyoto emissions-reductions targets, but most European nations are trying to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases by 8 percent by 2012. 
 A United Nations report released Monday said that greenhouse gas emissions of industrial nations that are part of the United Nations panel on climate change increased 11 percent between 1990 and 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); STARVATION (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMINE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); MALARIA (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); ANIMALS (56%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Kyoto Protocol; Weather

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (79%); GORDON BROWN (59%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Heather Timmons; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EARTH (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



745 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton's Rare Jab at Pataki Gives Republicans a Rare Opening to Criticize the Clintons 

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Criticizing 12 years of Republican rule in New York, former President Bill Clinton told supporters last night that the Senate office of his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, had become like ''a de facto governor's office'' for upstate economic development. 
 Appearing at a fund-raiser for Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democratic candidate for attorney general, in Manhattan, Mr. Clinton made the broadside without mentioning Gov. George E. Pataki, who is leaving office at the end of the year after three terms.
Indeed, it was not a slash-and-burn moment: Mr. Clinton seemed to be in an exuberant mood at the prospect of a Democratic takeover in New York led by Mr. Cuomo, a former housing secretary of his, as well as the party's candidate for governor, Eliot Spitzer, and Mrs. Clinton, who is up for re-election next week. 
 Addressing about 200 people at the Rainbow Room, Mr. Clinton praised Mr. Cuomo as effective because of his mastery of both politics and policy, which Mr. Clinton described as ''really important.'' Then he said:
 ''With all respect to my adopted state, New York needs a lot of work now. There's one reason my wife is running like a house fire in upstate New York. In a lot of these Republican communities, in effect, her office has become like a de facto governor's office for economic development and specific problem solving.''
 The Pataki administration has been criticized by many Democrats, including Mr. Spitzer, for not doing enough to create more jobs upstate. But Mr. Clinton has not assailed the governor's office very often. Coming one week before Election Day, his remark had a triumphal air -- but it also gave New York Republicans a rare opening to criticize the Clintons.
 ''The Clintons moved here to capitalize on lower taxes, a better economy, and an open Senate seat,'' said David Catalfamo, the governor's spokesman. ''When they actually do anything to improve the economy of upstate New York, it will be news.''
 Ryan Moses, executive director of the state Republican Party, noted that Mrs. Clinton promised to bring tens of thousands of jobs to upstate when she ran for office in 2000. ''All we've seen are 200,000 press releases from her -- but no jobs,'' he said.
 Jennifer Hanley, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton's re-election campaign, declined to comment last night.
 Mr. Clinton also urged the audience members, who had paid $1,000 each to be there, to persuade their friends to vote next week and not take a Democratic victory for granted, and also to recruit independents and Republicans to the party's banner. And he predicted a sea change in Albany in 2007.
 ''You are not going to recognize the news stories about state government after Andrew and Eliot have been there for 60 days,'' Mr. Clinton said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FIRES (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); TRENDS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Election Issues; Attorneys General

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Bill Clinton; Patrick Healy; George E (Gov) Pataki; Andrew M Cuomo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



746 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Arrives in Iraq As Tough Options Loom 

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOHN F. BURNS; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and John F. Burns from Baghdad. Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, arrived in Baghdad on Monday on an unannounced trip to discuss how to pull the country back from the brink.
 Though American officials would describe Mr. Hadley's talks only in the vaguest of terms, one option widely discussed in Washington and Baghdad in the days before his arrival, according to American and Iraqi officials, is a substantial increase in the number of American and Iraqi troops patrolling Baghdad. It would signal yet another effort to reassert control over the Iraqi capital, which officials in both governments said remains their top priority.
Those officials cautioned that no decision had been made about that option, which would amount to a third effort this year to contain the spreading violence in Baghdad. On Monday evening, J. D. Crouch, the deputy national security adviser, said Mr. Hadley was in Iraq to express support for the Iraqi government and warned, ''He is not preconfiguring military options.'' Mr. Crouch added that he was ''not aware'' of anyone proposing an increase in American troops. 
 Other American officials said that such options have been informally discussed. They said that before any American forces in Baghdad could be increased, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq would have to deliver more Iraqi troops, who would patrol the streets of the capital along with the Americans and take the lead whenever possible. 
 Other proposals now being discussed inside and outside the two governments range from how to permit greater autonomy for Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish sections of the country without splitting the country apart; how to share oil revenues among Iraq's population; and an amnesty for those who attacked Iraqi or American troops. 
 Many of these options may not be dealt with for months, because Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds within the ''unity government'' in Baghdad are still far apart on issues touching on Iraq's division of power and wealth.
 In an interview Friday evening, Mr. Hadley said that ''I wish you could find a silver bullet that could solve this in 30 days,'' but that ''I doubt it.''
 He described a series of American goals, including a new effort to get more financial and other support from neighboring states, saying that ''given the risks of chaos in Iraq, and given the threat and aspirations of Iran,'' each country in the region has ''a huge stake'' in a stable Iraq. But such appeals have failed in the past.
 Mr. Hadley faces critics -- many in his own party -- who say that the Bush administration's effort has devolved to picking the least bad of a dismal set of options, and that the administration must lower its sights for a democratic Iraq and simply regain a semblance of stability there. 
 ''It is folly to think we can win in Iraq the way some of us thought possible in 2003,'' Eliot A. Cohen, the director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, wrote this month in The Wall Street Journal. 
 Speaking in Baghdad on Sunday as Mr. Hadley headed to Iraq to meet him, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, Iraq's national security adviser, seemed to set out a Shiite vision when he said that while Shiites ''have the numbers'' in Baghdad, Sunnis who joined in building the new Iraq could look forward to ''sharing the wealth'' in oil. 
 But he implied that Sunnis were having difficulty reconciling to the new political realities. ''Some of these politicians are not prepared, mentally or psychologically, to make the compromises necessary for us to live cohabitively,'' he said.

More Troops
 In the interview on Sunday, Mr. Rubaie declined to discuss specifics of recent conversations with Washington over increasing troop levels. But he said, ''Baghdad is the core of the issue.'' When it comes to turning the tide of the war, he said, ''It's Baghdad, Baghdad, Baghdad.''
 American officials in Washington and Baghdad who discussed changes in the Baghdad security plan, including possible troop increases, said it was unlikely that any announcements would be made until after the elections on Nov. 7. Bush administration officials have said that any major changes in American policy will require bipartisan support, and they are clearly waiting to see which party will control the House, and possibly the Senate, before proceeding. A week ago, General George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, said that if he needed more troops, ''I will ask for the troops we need, both coalition and Iraqi.'' 
 In Washington, the debate over whether to increase troops comes as the White House seems to be groping for new ideas. The administration has resisted efforts to increase the overall number of American troops in Iraq. At times, tours have been extended for individual brigades, which amount to about 5,000 troops, for 90 days or so. But recent history suggests that any plan to significantly increase the American deployment in Baghdad would require more sweeping changes, by keeping 10,000 to 30,000 troops in Baghdad beyond their scheduled rotations home, even as new troops rotate in. 
 In the interview on Friday evening, Mr. Hadley declined to discuss internal deliberations. Still, he said: ''Everyone says there is no military solution to the problem. That's true. But you also have this Catch-22 element to the problem. You can't have security without political and economic progress, but it's hard to have political and economic progress without security. There is some minimum element of security you need.''
 Outside experts who favor an American withdrawal say that almost all the options now being considered would be doomed to failure.
 ''It's not going to make any difference,'' said Peter W. Galbraith, the author of ''The End of Iraq'' (Simon & Schuster) and a scholar at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation. ''It's not a country, and you can't build an army in the midst of a civil war. And elements of the Iraqi army are partisans in the civil war. You can't use the combatants as if they were neutral players.''

Regional Governments
 In Washington, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has called for the establishment of three regional governments -- one Kurdish, one Sunni, one Shiite -- responsible for administering their own regions. The idea is adapted from one first proposed by Leslie H. Gelb, the former president of the Council on Foreign Relations. 
 So far the Bush administration has opposed solutions that would give the regions too much autonomy for fear that could ultimately lead to partition. In Washington on Monday, Reuters reported, the Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Turki al-Faisal, said any partition of Iraq would lead to ''ethnic cleansing on a massive scale, sectarian killing on a massive scale.'' 
 This month, Iraq's new Parliament approved a law that empowers the country's 18 provinces to assemble into regions, but that delays, for 18 months, any practical steps toward forming those regions, in a bid to defuse the explosive political tensions that underlie the debate. 
 Nearly a year after national elections, the Sunnis, and not just the insurgents, remain unreconciled to the loss of primacy they enjoyed for generations -- and to the loss of revenue they enjoyed under Saddam Hussein. ''The problem is that in 2003 the Sunnis got 70 percent of the oil, and now they are being asked to take 20 percent,'' Mr. Galbraith said. 
 Meanwhile, the Shiites, or at least the leaders of the religious parties that control the government, have become increasingly strident in insisting that after generations of Sunni domination, it is now their turn to rule. While a process of ethnic and religious separation is already under way in cities including Baghdad, Mosul and Kirkuk -- with tens of thousands of people from the three principal communities fleeing to safer havens in those parts of the country where they are in the majority -- any policy that explicitly espoused this kind of separation would be likely to ignite an even fiercer struggle.
 The subtext for the debate is the struggle for control of the country's oil and gas revenues. The Iraqi Constitution, narrowly adopted last year, envisages a formula for dividing the revenues among provinces or regions proportional to the populations in each area, with some adjustments. Though the timetable set by the American and Iraqi governments calls for legislation to be passed on the issue by the end of October, there is now little chance it will happen before the end of the year.

Reconciliation and Amnesty
 When he took office in May, Mr. Maliki made national reconciliation a centerpiece of his policy. But today it is foundering. 
 At the dispute's heart is the issue of a possible amnesty. It would cover both those responsible for the repressive violence during Mr. Hussein's 24 years in power, and the killing that has ensued, by insurgents and sectarian militias, since his fall.
 Shiite politicians, in particular, have adamantly opposed any amnesty that would cover the decades of Shiite suffering under Mr. Hussein, or the widespread killing of Shiites by Sunni insurgents since the American-led invasion in 2003. As Shiite death squads have killed Sunnis over the past year, Sunni politicians, too, have hardened their stand. American officials, eager to promote Iraqi reconciliation, have still balked at any provision to spare insurgents or sectarian militiamen who have killed American soldiers.
 Iraqi officials designated by Mr. Maliki to lead the reconciliation effort now seem to be despairing.
 ''Iraq has only two options, fragmentation or civil war,'' Sayed Ayyad Jamaluddin, a secular Shiite who is a member of the Maliki-appointed Higher Council for National Reconciliation, said last month. ''And civil war,'' he added, ''will be a catastrophe, because it will be fought on the basis of religion.''

A Strongman
 Some American experts have suggested that the Bush administration should abandon the effort to create a Western-style democracy and throw its weight behind a stronger Iraqi government. Mr. Cohen, in the Wall Street Journal article, which the White House e-mailed to reporters because it concluded that a withdrawal of American troops would be disastrous, wrote that ''a junta of military modernizers might be the only hope of a country whose democratic culture is weak, whose politicians are either corrupt or incapable.'' But he also highlighted the downsides of returning to a strongman government.
 Iraqi newspapers have adopted the theme of a government change, speculating on the possible composition of a ''national salvation government,'' backed by the United States, that would wrest power from the Shiite alliance that chose Mr. Maliki for prime minister. Iraqi officials have said that Mr. Maliki has been deeply shaken by rumors that he might be forced from office by year's end. However, President Bush, in two conversations over the past two weeks, has assured him of support.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis gathered Monday at the site of a bombing in Sadr City, a Shiite enclave in Baghdad. The blast, at a collections of food stalls, killed at least 31. (Photo by Kadim Karim/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); AMNESTY (63%); PARDONS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Amnesties and Pardons; Foreign Aid

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) David E Sanger; John F Burns; Stephen J Hadley; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (99%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006



747 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Though Not on the Ballot, Bush Campaigns Like a Candidate in Georgia and Texas 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: SUGAR LAND, Tex., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush zigzagged from Georgia to his home state, Texas, on Monday, stumping for Republicans in Bush-friendly districts while looking ever more like the candidate himself.
 Here in the Houston suburb once represented by Tom DeLay, Mr. Bush was greeted at a campaign rally like a man whose public approval ratings are 73 percent, not 37 percent. Campaign volunteers who had jammed into an airplane hangar climbed atop one another's shoulders to catch a glimpse of him. Little children sported buttons with his likeness and waved tiny Texas flags. One supporter raised a handmade ''Dubya'' sign.
Mr. Bush, his shirt collar open, his sleeves rolled up, soaked it all in before delivering a speech that laid into Democrats for, among other things, opposing tax cuts and lacking a strategy in Iraq. It was a reprise of a fiery talk he gave hours earlier at a college gymnasium in Statesboro, Ga. 
 ''It's a serious political party in the midst of a war, and they have no plan for success,'' Mr. Bush said in Sugar Land, after proclaiming, ''we will not run from thugs and assassins.'' It was a moment when the president could defend his record in Iraq to thunderous applause.
 The back-to-back rallies created just the image White House strategists are seeking for the president in the waning days of the campaign: that of a confident leader, surrounded by adoring supporters. 
 The intent is to fire up the party faithful and push them to the polls, but at times it seemed as if Mr. Bush was the one being fired up. The president seemed to relish playing the game of political expectations, as he tweaked Democrats as measuring for new curtains in Washington too soon.
 ''You might remember that around this time in 2004, some of them were picking out their new offices in the West Wing,'' Mr. Bush said in Georgia. 
 He paused to absorb the laughter and applause, then added dryly, ''The movers never got the call.''
 After weeks of focusing on the economy and the war on terror, Mr. Bush has also tweaked his standard stump speech. It has been refashioned to include a broad defense of his record in a variety of areas: education, energy policy, border security, immigration, Medicare prescription drug benefits and the appointment of two conservative justices to the Supreme Court. 
 One of his biggest applause lines in Georgia was a restatement of his position that ''marriage is a union between a man and a woman.'' The line brought the crowd to its feet.
 Charles Black, a Republican strategist with close ties to the White House, said: ''The most important issues to Republican voters are tax cuts to the economic conservatives, and judges and marriage, pro-life issues to the social conservatives. So he's reminding them that he's got a good record on those things.''
 Mr. Bush, of course, is not on the ballot. But with analysts predicting that Republicans could lose control of one or both houses of Congress, White House strategists are sending the president to those districts where he might just drag a Republican candidate across the finish line.
 Sugar Land is in one such district, whose political landscape looks something like a Shakespeare play. The name of Mr. DeLay, who resigned from Congress after being indicted on charges of conspiring to violate Texas election laws, remains on the ballot, though he is not running. That left Mr. Bush to implore Republicans to write in the name of a candidate whose name is not easily written: Shelley Sekula-Gibbs, a dermatologist who serves on the Houston City Council.
 She is running against Nick Lampson, a Democrat who lost his seat in a redistricting engineered by Mr. DeLay. Polls show the two running neck and neck, but Bruce Buchanan, a political science professor at the University of Texas at Austin, said Mr. Bush remained popular enough here to help Ms. Sekula-Gibbs.
 ''He's still got legs,'' Mr. Buchanan said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about President Bush's campaigning for Congressional candidates in Georgia and Texas incorrectly described the ballot in the Texas district once represented by Tom DeLay, a Republican. The name of Mr. DeLay, who resigned from Congress and is facing charges involving campaign finance violations, is not on the ballot. (The Republican Party is backing Shelley Sekula-Gibbs, a member of the Houston City Council, as a write-in candidate.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); CHILDREN (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); DISMISSALS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); MEDICARE (50%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) Texas; Georgia 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

 
