

401 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: McCain Joins Fray On Obama

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY; Julie Bosman contributed reporting from Philadelphia.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain threw himself into the culture war between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton on Monday. He said at a gathering of news executives that comments by Mr. Obama about working-class voters were ''elitist'' and a ''fundamental contradiction of what I believe America's all about.''
 Mr. McCain's remarks were his first public comments on the issue since Mr. Obama told a group of wealthy donors on April 6 that small-town Pennsylvania voters, ''bitter'' over their economic circumstances, ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them'' as a way to explain their frustrations. 
 The comments on Monday reflected the strategy of Mr. McCain and his advisers -- similar to Mrs. Clinton's tactics -- to portray Mr. Obama as out of touch with ordinary Americans, particularly the white working-class voters whom Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain are wooing for November.
 Mr. McCain stopped short of calling Mr. Obama an elitist, although he did not show great warmth for him in a question-and-answer session after Mr. McCain's formal remarks at the annual meeting of The Associated Press at the Washington Convention Center. 
 The A.P. meeting coincides with the annual conferences of the Newspaper Association of America and the American Society of Newspaper Editors.
 Asked whether Mr. Obama's comments made him an elitist, Mr. McCain replied, ''I don't know, because I don't know him very well.''
 Mr. Obama said a little more than three hours later that he would welcome having a general-election conversation with voters about which party was disconnected with their concerns.
 ''If John McCain wants to turn this election into a contest about which party is out of touch with the struggles and the hopes of working America, that's a debate I'm happy to have,'' Mr. Obama said at the A.P. meeting. ''In fact, I think that's a debate we need to have.''
 ''If I had to carry the banner for eight years of George Bush's failures,'' he added, ''I'd be looking for something else to talk about, too.''
 Yet Mr. Obama spent his fourth day in a row explaining his ''bitter'' remark in San Francisco.
 ''I may have made a mistake last week in the words that I chose,'' he said. ''But the other party has made a much more damaging mistake in the failed policies they've chosen and the bankrupt philosophy they've embraced for the last three decades.''
 Mr. Obama also turned to Mrs. Clinton, who is scheduled to address the group on Tuesday. 
 ''I'm sure that Senator Clinton feels like she's doing me a great favor, because she's been deploying most of the arguments that the Republican Party will be using against me in November,'' he said, a smile easing across his face. ''So it's toughening me up. I'm getting run through the paces.''
 On Monday night, the Clinton campaign announced a 30-second television spot titled ''Pennsylvania.'' It highlights Mr. Obama's remarks, which became public on Friday. The advertisement features Pennsylvania supporters' reactions to the comments. 
 ''I was very insulted by Barack Obama,'' a woman says. 
 On other subjects, Mr. McCain told those at the gathering that he ''narrowly'' supported a federal shield law to protect reporters from identifying sources. Senators Clinton and Obama also endorsed such efforts. 
 Mr. McCain said he was concerned about articles with national security information that could endanger Americans. He called The New York Times's publishing information on the National Security Agency's eavesdropping ''too close to crossing that line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain at the annual meeting of The Associated Press on Monday in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (56%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



402 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Some Perspective On 'Bitter'

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Maybe Barack Obama felt he couldn't afford to give the correct answer.
 He was asked at a fund-raiser in San Francisco about his campaign's experiences in the run-up to next week's Democratic primary in Pennsylvania. One of the main problems, of course, is that he hasn't generated as much support as he'd like among white working-class voters.
 There is no mystery here. Except for people who have been hiding in caves or living in denial, it's pretty widely understood that a substantial number of those voters -- in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia and elsewhere -- will not vote for a black candidate for president. 
 Pennsylvanians themselves will tell you that racial attitudes in some parts of the state are, to be kind, less than enlightened. Gov. Ed Rendell, Hillary Clinton's most powerful advocate in the state, put it bluntly last February: ''I think there are some whites who are probably not ready to vote for an African-American candidate.''
 This toxic issue is at the core of the Clinton camp's relentless effort to persuade superdelegates that Senator Obama ''can't win'' the White House. It's the only weapon left in the Clintons' depleted armory.
 Senator Obama has spent his campaign trying to dodge the race issue, which in America is like trying to dodge the wind. So when he fielded the question in San Francisco, he didn't say: ''A lot of folks are not with me because I'm black -- but I'm trying to make my case and bring as many around as I can.''
 Instead, he fell back on a tortured response that was demonstrably incorrect. Referring to the long-term economic distress of many working-class voters, Mr. Obama said: ''It's not surprising then they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or antitrade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations.''
 He danced all around the truth. Unless you're Fred Astaire, if your dance steps get too intricate you're bound to make a misstep. This was a big one. 
 But there is something perverse in the effort to portray Senator Obama -- who has tried hard to promote a message of unity and healing -- as some kind of divisive figure. He has spoken with great insight and empathy, most notably in his race speech in Philadelphia, about the anxiety and frustration of middle- and working-class Americans.
 In his San Francisco comments, Senator Obama fouled up when he linked frustration and bitterness over economic hard times with America's romance with guns and embrace of religion. But, please, let's get a grip. What we ought to be worked up about is the racism that still prevents some people from giving a candidate a fair chance because of his skin color.
 Are working people bitter? There's no doubt that many are extremely bitter over the economic hand they've been dealt. Those who believed that America's industrial heartland was secure and everlasting have been forced to adjust over the past several years to an extremely bitter reality. Jobs and pensions have vanished. The value of the family home is sinking. Health care is increasingly unaffordable. For many, the cost of college is out of reach.
 But ''bitter'' has a connotation that is generally not helpful in a political campaign. Bitter suggests powerlessness and a smallness of spirit. Most people would prefer to be characterized as ''angry'' -- a term that suggests empowerment -- rather than ''bitter,'' with its undertone of defeat.
 So this was not a good episode for Senator Obama, however you look at it.
 If I were advising him, I would tell him to confront the matter head-on, meeting as often as possible with skeptical, and even hostile, working people in Pennsylvania and elsewhere. Let the questions rip, and answer them honestly.
 No one has an obligation to vote for Mr. Obama, and it's certainly not racist to vote against him. But the senator can make it clear that it is wrong to dismiss a candidacy out of hand solely because of the race or ethnicity or gender of the candidate.
 One of Mr. Obama's strongest points early in this campaign was his capacity to make people feel good about their country again. If I were him, I'd try to re-ignite that flame.
 During his victory speech after the Iowa caucuses, he told a tumultuously cheering crowd: ''They said this country was too divided, too disillusioned to ever come together around a common purpose.''
 Mr. Obama needs to get back on that message of unity and hope, appealing to the better angels of the working classes, while at the same time fashioning an economic message more compelling than what we've heard to date.
 The various groups, ethnic and otherwise, are not interested in being characterized. They're interested in being led. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); SUPERDELEGATES (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ED RENDELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



403 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4017 words

HEADLINE: McCain on the Economy at Carnegie Mellon University

 BODY:
Following is the text of John McCain's speech on April 15, 2008, as prepared for delivery and provided by his campaign.
 Thank you. I appreciate the hospitality of the Allegheny Business Conference... the Pittsburgh Tech Council... and the students and faculty of Carnegie Mellon University. We have a strong showing this morning from the Carnegie Mellon Naval ROTC unit as well. And I'm happy to be with all of you.
 This university has a fine reputation for its programs in business, finance, and other disciplines in the field of economics. And it's always worth recalling that economics is not a subject that can be wrenched apart from all the rest of life, or from the values that give life direction. When we debate economic policy, we are talking, after all, about the deepest hopes that carry us each along in the work we do... about all the things we wish for ourselves and for each other. And these cannot be measured by simply running the numbers. 
 In our free society, it is left to each one of us to make our own way in the world -- and our jobs, businesses, savings, pensions, farms, and homes are the work of years. Take these away and you are diminishing a lot more than the GDP, or the final tally on the Big Board on Wall Street. Take these away, and a million dreams are undone. The gains of hard work and sacrifice are lost. And something can be lost that is very crucial in our economy, and very slow to return -- confidence.
 Every so often in our nation's capital, we relearn this lesson when the excesses of traders and speculators, and the poor planning of politicians, catches up with them, and the troubles spread far beyond Wall Street and Washington. This has happened in recent months, at great cost to workers, small businesses, families, and homeowners across our nation. And calling these serious problems a ''correction'' in the market, or a ''cycle'' of the economy, doesn't make their situation any better, their jobs and homes any safer, their lives any easier.
 Economic policy is not just some academic exercise, and we in Washington are not just passive spectators. We have a responsibility to act -- and if I am elected president I intend to act quickly and decisively. We need reforms that promote growth and opportunity. We need rules that assure fairness and punish wrongdoing in the market. We need tax policies that respect the wage-earners and job creators who make this economy run, and help them to succeed in a global economy. In all of this, it will not be enough to simply dust off the economic policies of four, eight, or twenty-eight years ago. We have our own work to do. We have our own challenges to meet. 
 Millions of working men and women in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan and beyond can tell you how urgent is the work before us. One man put it this way to a reporter not long ago, in reply to a question about the job he had just lost. He said, ''I told my wife that I'll always keep a roof over her head. Now, I worry about keeping that promise.'' In the monthly reports of our Labor Department, nearly 250,000 Americans like this man were let go recently and suddenly from jobs they thought were safe.
 A woman in the town of Trainer, in Delaware County, also captured the feeling of many when she described what it's like to work and save for years, and, at the age of 47, still struggle for the basics of life. The family has had medical problems, and as she puts it: ''Trust me, no one wants to be in our shoes. And lots of people are just a sick husband away from where we are.'' For citizens like these -- doing their best to keep promises and meet obligations, there is no comfort knowing their problems are common and their worries are shared. 
 Meanwhile, the people we expect to be most sober and level-headed in their economic decisions -- bankers and other home lenders -- forgot some of the basic standards of their own profession. Hard-working homeowners are learning for the first time about the endlessly complicated borrowing, bundling, and betting that has been going on in our capital markets. Americans worry about a system that allows 4 million bad loans to affect 51 million good ones. They wonder how assets can so quickly become liabilities, and why the high-risk schemes of a few were permitted to inflict such grievous harm on our entire financial system.
 Americans are also right to be offended when the extravagant salaries and severance deals of CEO's -- in some cases, the very same CEO's who helped to bring on these market troubles -- bear no relation to the success of the company or the wishes of shareholders. Something is seriously wrong when the American people are left to bear the consequences of reckless corporate conduct, while Mr. Cayne of Bear Stearns, Mr. Mozilo of Countrywide, and others are packed off with another forty- or fifty million for the road. 
 I leave it for others to speculate on the technical definition of a recession. It's all a little beside the point, if it's your plant that's closing and your job that's gone... when you are facing foreclosure, or back in debt after years of hard effort, or hardly able to buy food, gas, or heating for your home. In the end, the truest measure of prosperity in America is the success and financial security of those who earn wages and meet payrolls in this country. Many are waiting for their first homes... their first big break... their first shot at financial security. And helping them will be my first priority in setting the economic policies of this nation.
 In so many ways, even now, the workers and entrepreneurs of America are taken for granted by their government, while the lobbyists and special pleaders are seldom turned away. By the tens of billions of dollars, our tax money is routinely squandered by the Congress on less than useless pork-barrel projects -- projects having nothing to do with the purposes of government, and everything to do with the preservation of power. 
 In the same way, many in Congress think Americans are under-taxed. They speak as if letting you keep your own earnings were an act of charity, and now they have decided you've had enough. By allowing many of the current low tax rates to expire, they would impose -- overnight -- the single largest tax increase since the Second World War. Among supporters of a tax increase are Senators Obama and Clinton. Both promise big ''change.'' And a trillion dollars in new taxes over the next decade would certainly fit that description. 
 Of course, they would like you to think that only the very wealthy will pay more in taxes, but the reality is quite different. Under my opponents' various tax plans, Americans of every background would see their taxes rise -- seniors, parents, small business owners, and just about everyone who has even a modest investment in the market. All these tax increases are the fine print under the slogan of ''hope'': They're going to raise your taxes by thousands of dollars per year -- and they have the audacity to hope you don't mind.
 They and others argue that the tax increase is necessary in part to finance Social Security and Medicare. Unfortunately, this claim only serves to remind us of Congress' consistent failure to repair both of these programs even under the best of circumstances. For years, Congress has been buying time, and leaving the great challenge of entitlement reform for others to deal with. And now the two contenders in the other party have even proposed enormous new federal commitments before the old commitments have been kept -- trusting that others, somewhere down the road, will handle the financing and make all the numbers come out right.
 But there will come a day when the road dead-ends, and the old excuses seem even more hollow. And it won't be the politicians who bear the consequences. It will be American workers and their children who are left with worthless promises and trillion-dollar debts. We cannot let that happen. And you have my pledge: as president I will work with every member of Congress -- Republican, Democrat, and Independent -- who shares my commitment to reforming and protecting Medicare and Social Security.
 In so many ways, we need to make a clean break from the worst excesses of both political parties. For Republicans, it starts with reclaiming our good name as the party of spending restraint. Somewhere along the way, too many Republicans in Congress became indistinguishable from the big-spending Democrats they used to oppose. The only power of government that could stop them was the power of veto, and it was rarely used. 
 If that authority is entrusted to me, I will use the veto as needed, and as the Founders intended. I will veto every bill with earmarks, until the Congress stops sending bills with earmarks. I will seek a constitutionally valid line-item veto to end the practice once and for all. I will lead across-the-board reforms in the federal tax code, removing myriad corporate tax loopholes that are costly, unfair, and inconsistent with a free-market economy. 
 As president, I will also order a prompt and thorough review of the budgets of every federal program, department, and agency. While that top to bottom review is underway, we will institute a one-year pause in discretionary spending increases with the necessary exemption of military spending and veterans benefits. ''Discretionary spending'' is a term people throw around a lot in Washington, while actual discretion is seldom exercised. Instead, every program comes with a built-in assumption that it should go on forever, and its budget increase forever. My administration will change that way of thinking.
 I'll hold the agencies of the federal government accountable for the money they spend. I'll make sure the public helps me, and I'll provide federal agencies with the best executive leadership that can be found in America. We're going to make every aspect of government purchases and performance transparent. Information on every step of contracts and grants will be posted on the Internet in plain and simple English. We're going to post an agency's performance evaluation as well. We're going to demand accountability. We will make sure that federal spending serves the common interests... that failed programs are not rewarded... and that discretionary spending is going where it belongs -- to essential priorities like job training, the security of our citizens, and the care of our veterans.
 In my administration there will be no more subsidies for special pleaders -- no more corporate welfare -- no more throwing around billions of dollars of the people's money on pet projects, while the people themselves are struggling to afford their homes, groceries, and gas. We are going to get our priorities straight in Washington -- a clean break from years of squandered wealth and wasted chances.
 I have a clear record of not asking for earmarks for my state. For their part, Senators Obama and Clinton have championed a long list of pork-barrel projects for their states -- like that all-important Woodstock museum that Senator Clinton expected Americans to pay for at the cost of a million dollars. That kind of careless spending of tax dollars is not change, my friends: It is business as usual in Washington, and it's all a part of the same wasteful and corrupting system that we need to end. 
 The goal of reform, however, is not merely to check waste and keep a tidy budget process -- although these are important enough in themselves. The great goal is to get the American economy running at full strength again, creating the opportunities Americans expect and the jobs Americans need. And one very direct way to achieve that is by taking the savings from earmark, program review, and other budget reforms -- on the order of 100 billion dollars annually -- and use those savings to lower the business income tax for every employer that pays it.
 So I will send to Congress a proposal to cut the taxes these employers pay, from a rate of 35 to 25 percent. As it is, we have the second-highest tax on business in the industrialized world. High tax rates are driving many businesses and jobs overseas -- and, of course, our foreign competitors wouldn't mind if we kept it that way. But if I am elected president, we're going to get rid of that drag on growth and job creation, and help American workers compete with any company in the world.
 I will also send to the Congress a middle-class tax cut -- a complete phase-out of the Alternative Minimum Tax to save more than 25 million middle-class families more than 2,000 dollars every year.
 Our tax laws and those who enforce them should treat all citizens with respect, whether they are married or single. But mothers and fathers bear special responsibilities, and the tax code must recognize this. Inflation has eroded the value of the exemption for dependents. I will send to Congress a reform to increase the exemption -- with the goal of doubling it from 3,500 dollars to 7,000 dollars for every dependent, in every family in America. 
 The tax laws of America should also promote and reward innovation, because innovation creates jobs. Tax laws should not smother the ingenuity of our people with needless regulations and disincentives. So I will propose and sign into law a reform agenda to permit the first-year expensing of new equipment and technology... to ban Internet taxes, permanently... to ban new cell phone taxes... and to make the tax credit for R&D permanent, so that we never lose our competitive edge. 
 It is not enough, however, to make little fixes here and there in the tax code. What we need is a simpler, a flatter, and a fair tax code. As president, I will propose an alternative tax system. When this reform is enacted, all who wish to file under the current system could still do so. And everyone else could choose a vastly less complicated system with two tax rates and a generous standard deduction. Americans do not resent paying their rightful share of taxes -- what they do resent is being subjected to thousands of pages of needless and often irrational rules and demands from the IRS. We know from experience that no serious reform of the current tax code will come out of Congress, so now it is time to turn the decision over to the people. We are going to create a new and simpler tax system -- and give the American people a choice.
 Better tax policy is just one part of a pro-growth agenda that includes smarter regulation and a leaner, more focused government. Among the many benefits to America, these reforms will help to create jobs, improve the investment climate, attract global investors, and strengthen the dollar. 
 Americans also worry about stagnant wages, which are caused in part by the rising cost of health care. Each year employers pay more and more for insurance, leaving less and less to pay their employees. As president, I will propose and relentlessly advocate changes that will bring down health care costs, make health care more affordable and accessible, help individuals and families buy their health insurance with generous tax credits, and enable you to keep your insurance when you change jobs.
 Many retired Americans face the terrible reality of deciding whether to buy food, pay rent or buy their prescriptions. And their government should help them. But when we added the prescription drug benefit to Medicare, a new and costly entitlement, we included many people who are more than capable of purchasing their own medicine without assistance from taxpayers who struggle to purchase their own. People like Bill Gates and Warren Buffet don't need their prescriptions underwritten by taxpayers. Those who can afford to buy their own prescription drugs should be expected to do so. This reform alone will save billions of dollars that could be returned to taxpayers or put to better use.
 There's never been a problem Americans couldn't solve. We are the world's leaders, and leaders don't fear change, pine for the past and dread the future. We make the future better than the past. That is why I object when Senators Obama and Clinton and others preach the false virtues of economic isolationism. Senator Obama recently suggested that Americans are protectionist because they are bitter about being left behind in the global economy. Well, what's his excuse for embracing the false promises of protectionism? Opening new markets for American goods and services is indispensable to our future prosperity. We can compete with anyone. Senators Obama and Clinton think we should hide behind walls, bury our heads and industries in the sand, and hope we have enough left to live on while the world passes us by. But that is not good policy and it is not good leadership. And the short-sightedness of these policies can be seen today in Congress' refusal to vote on the Colombian Free Trade Agreement.
 When new trading partners can sell in our market, and American companies can sell in theirs, the gains are great and they are lasting. The strength of the American economy offers a better life to every society we trade with, and the good comes back to us in many ways -- in better jobs, higher wages, and lower prices. Free trade can also give once troubled and impoverished nations a stake in the world economy, and in their relations with America. In the case of Colombia, a friend and crucial democratic ally, its stability and economic vitality are more critical now, as others in the region seek to turn Latin America away from democracy and away from our country. Trade serves all of these national interests, and the interests of the American economy as well -- and I call on the Congress once again to put this vital agreement to an up or down vote. 
 I know that open markets don't automatically translate into a higher quality of life for every single American. Change is hard, and while most of us gain, some industries, companies and workers are left to struggle with very difficult choices. And government should help workers get the education and training they need -- for the new jobs that will be created by new businesses in this new century. Right now we have more than a half-dozen different programs that are supposed to help displaced workers, and for those who are not working at all. We have an unemployment insurance program straight out of the 1950s. It was designed to assist workers through a few tough months during an economic downturn until their old jobs came back. That program has no relevance to the world we live in today.
 If I'm elected president, I'll work with Congress and the states to make job training and unemployment insurance what they should be -- a swift path from a job that's not coming back to a job that won't go away. We will build a new system, using the unemployment-insurance taxes to build for each worker a buffer account against a sudden loss of income -- so that in times of need they're not just told to fill out forms and take a number. And we will draw on the great strengths of America's community colleges, applying the funds from federal training accounts to give displaced workers of every age a fresh start with new skills and new opportunities.
 These reforms must wait on the next election, but to help our workers and our economy we must also act in the here and now. And we must start with the subprime mortgage crisis, with the hundreds of thousands of citizens who played by the rules, yet now fear losing their houses. Under the HOME plan I have proposed, our government will offer these Americans direct and immediate help that can make all the difference: If you can't make your payments, and you're in danger of foreclosure, you will be able to go to any Post Office and pick up a form for a new HOME loan. In place of your flawed mortgage loan, you'll be eligible for a new, 30-year fixed-rate loan backed by the United States government. Citizens will keep their homes, lenders will cut their losses, and everyone will move on -- following the sounder practices that should have been observed in the first place. 
 It's important as well to remember that the foolish risk-taking of lenders, investment banks, and others that led to these troubles don't reflect our free market as it should be working. In a free market, there must be transparency, accountability, and personal and corporate responsibility. The housing crisis came about because these standards collapsed -- and, as president, I intend to restore them. 
 The grave problems in the housing market have been viral, spreading out to affect the credit and buying power of Americans even as the price of oil and gas is rising as never before. There are larger problems underlying the price of oil, all of which I will address in my energy plan, but in the short term there are crucial measures we can take.
 I propose that the federal government suspend all taxes on gasoline now paid by the American people -- from Memorial Day to Labor Day of this year. The effect will be an immediate economic stimulus -- taking a few dollars off the price of a tank of gas every time a family, a farmer, or trucker stops to fill up. Over the same period, our government should suspend the purchase of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which has also contributed to the rising price of oil. This measure, combined with the summer-long ''gas-tax holiday,'' will bring a timely reduction in the price of gasoline. And because the cost of gas affects the price of food, packaging, and just about everything else, these immediate steps will help to spread relief across the American economy.
 By summer's end, moreover, millions of college students will be counting on their student loans to come through -- and we need to make sure that happens. These young Americans, including perhaps some of you at CMU, are among the many citizens whose ability to obtain a loan might be seriously hurt by faraway problems not of their own making. So, today, I propose that the Department of Education work with the governors to make sure that each state's guarantee agency has the means and manpower to meet its obligation as a lender-of-last-resort for student loans. In the years ahead, these young Americans will be needed to sustain America's primacy in the global marketplace. And they should not be denied an education because the recklessness of others has made credit too hard to obtain. 
 These are just some of the reforms I intend to fight for and differences I will debate with whoever my Democratic opponent is. In the weeks and months ahead, I will detail my plans to reform health care in America... to make our schools more accountable to parents and taxpayers... to keep America's edge in technology... to use the power of free markets to grow our economy... to escape our dependence on foreign oil... and to guard against climate change and to be better stewards of the earth. All of these challenges, and more, will face the next president, and I will not leave them for some unluckier generation of leaders to deal with. We are going to restore the confidence of the American people in the future of this great and blessed country. 
 I do not seek the presidency on the presumption that I am blessed with such personal greatness that history has anointed me to save my country in its hour of need. I seek the presidency with the humility of a man who cannot forget that my country saved me. I am running to serve America, and to champion the ideas I believe will help us do what every American generation has done: to make in our time, and from our challenges, a safer, stronger, more prosperous country and a better world.
 As I have always done, I will make my case to every American who will listen. I will not confine myself to the comfort of speaking only to those who agree with me. I will make my case to all the people. I will listen to those who disagree. I will try to persuade them. I will debate. And I will learn from them. But I will fightevery moment of every day for what I believe is right for this country, and I will not yield.
 Thank you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



404 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Loss at Wachovia Stirs Profit-Season Unease

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Wachovia Corporation kicked off what is expected to be a grim earnings season for the nation's banks on Monday, stunning Wall Street with an unexpected loss.
 The red ink at Wachovia, the country's fourth-largest bank, signals that the pain for the financial industry is far from over. Giants like Citigroup and Bank of America, as well as dozens of smaller banks, are expected to report weak results in the coming days and weeks.
 Wachovia's disclosure added to the growing sense of unease on Wall Street over softening earnings at many major corporations. General Electric, considered a bellwether for the global economy because of its diverse operations, shocked investors on Friday by falling short of analysts' profit forecasts. More companies are likely to disappoint investors as the economic downturn takes hold. 
 ''During recessions, profits fall,'' said David Kostin, the United States investment strategist for Goldman Sachs. ''That is not in most people's forecasts.'' Wachovia's first-quarter performance was particularly bleak, with the company swinging to a loss of $350 million. 
 In an interview, G. Kennedy Thompson, the chairman and chief executive of Wachovia, said the economy had slipped into a mild recession and he provided a sober outlook for the banking industry, saying the crisis gripping the housing market was only half over. 
 ''We are in the early stages of the credit cycle,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''Its severity will play out according to the health of the economy.'' 
 A growing number of homeowners with mortgages from Wachovia walked away from their homes when they fell behind on their payments. Charge-offs nearly doubled, to 0.66 percent of net loans. Wachovia's capital levels, meanwhile, have been depleted by the mounting losses from its ill-timed acquisition of Golden West Financial, a large California lender, near the peak of the housing boom. Lenders of all sizes face similar problems, and for some the situation is dire. On Monday, the Fremont General Corporation, a troubled mortgage lender, agreed to sell its retail banking assets for $198 million.
 JPMorgan Chase, which reports earnings on Wednesday, has been one of the few banks to successfully weather the credit storm so far. But investors are bracing for weaker results, given the market turbulence in March and big home equity losses.
 Citigroup, which will release its earnings on Friday, is likely to announce another huge write-off on top of the $22 billion in charges it announced last year. Analysts project the bank could take as much as a $12 billion charge as Vikram S. Pandit, its new chief executive, tries to clean up Citigroup's big portfolios of home and credit card loans and whittle down a mountain of complex mortgage-related investments.
 Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Wells Fargo and dozens of smaller banks are likely to face similar troubles when they report first-quarter results in the coming weeks. 
 ''The pressure is a little more pronounced,'' said Kevin Fitzsimmons, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neil. ''But it is an indication that the deterioration is not abating, but accelerating.'' 
 Banks are paying the price for the easy money they extended to fuel the housing boom. Under pressure to cut costs, the banking industry is expected to shed 150,000 to 200,000 jobs in the next 12 to 18 months, according to a new Oliver Wyman report. 
 Banks are also scrambling to raise cash. On Monday, Wachovia announced plans to raise about $7 billion, with the potential for another $500 million, through the issuance of common and preferred stock .The common stock is being offered at $24, a 14 percent discount to last week's closing share price.
 Wachovia followed Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, UBS and Washington Mutual in turning to outside investors to shore up its balance sheets. And industry experts say that list is likely to grow. In fact, the 25 largest banks could raise more than $40 billion in new capital by the end of the year, according to one senior investment banker. 
 ''There is not a C.E.O. worth his salt who is not thinking about capital management,'' this banker said. ''There are literally dozens of small and medium-sized institutions actively considering private capital raises, public capital raises, and other things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: G. Kennedy Thompson, the chief executive of Wachovia, speaking to employees in February. The bank moved to shore up its balance sheet with a plan to raise capital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: G KENNEDY THOMPSON (92%); VIKRAM PANDIT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



405 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: With Faith in the Spotlight, Candidates Battle for Catholic Votes

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Many years have passed since the Democratic Party was as much a part of American Catholic identity as weekly Mass and parochial school. But it still came as a shock to many Democrats to lose the Catholic vote, a key group in must-win states like Ohio, in the 2004 presidential election.
 It is an experience they are determined not to repeat.
 The presidential candidates are in the middle of an escalating battle for Catholic voters -- most immediately between Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York in the Pennsylvania Democratic primary, but also between the two parties as they look ahead to the general election. This struggle is an important part of the backdrop for Pope Benedict XVI's trip to the United States starting Tuesday, which has drawn gestures of respect from all of the presidential contenders. 
 There is widespread agreement that American Catholic voters are far more diverse than monolithic. Even so, both the Clinton and the Obama campaigns have hired Catholic outreach directors, deployed an army of prominent Catholic surrogates testifying on their behalf and created mailings that highlight their commitment to Catholic social teachings on economic justice and the common good.
 Dismayed at losing so many Catholic and other religious voters to the Republicans in 2004, Democrats talk far more often, and more comfortably, about their values and the importance of their own faith these days.
 Essentially, they have tried to broaden the definition of ''values'' issues beyond abortion rights, on which they disagree with the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church and many religious conservatives. Mrs. Clinton, for example, spoke recently about the economy and the needs of working families to a crowd of more than 2,000 at Mercyhurst, a Catholic college in Erie, Pa. The college and the candidate went ahead with the event despite the objections of the local bishop, who argued that a Catholic institution should reflect the church's ''pro-life stance'' on abortion.
 On Sunday, the Democratic candidates appeared separately at a forum at Messiah College in Grantham, Pa., for a televised discussion of poverty, health care, energy prices and the rest of the party's policy agenda as moral and spiritual issues. (The forum also offered Mr. Obama a chance to note that he had once attended Catholic school, and Mrs. Clinton a chance to praise the Vatican as ''the first carbon-neutral state in the world.'')
 Mrs. Clinton, a Methodist, carried the Catholic vote overwhelmingly in Ohio, Texas and several other major states that have held primaries and caucuses this year, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls; she hopes to do so again in Pennsylvania, which holds its primary next week. (Aides say she is particularly popular among nuns.) In an open letter to Pennsylvania Catholics, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., two children of Robert F. Kennedy, wrote, ''Catholics have a partner in Hillary Clinton, one who will work to advance the common good of all Pennsylvanians and all Americans.'' 
 Burns Strider, senior adviser and director of faith outreach for the Clinton campaign, said: ''There's no grand clandestine or secret message or formula here. It's just a matter of middle-class and working-class people whose values match up very well with Senator Clinton's.'' 
 Bill Clinton carried the Catholic vote in 1992 and 1996. Some analysts say that considerable loyalty remains to the ''Clinton brand,'' notably on bread-and-butter issues like health care. The Obama campaign is acutely sensitive to the notion that their candidate is vulnerable among these voters; some of Mr. Obama's allies argue that it makes little sense to even think of Catholics as a voting bloc, given the huge differences among them.
 Even so, on Friday, the Obama campaign unveiled its national advisory council of prominent Catholics, including elected officials, theologians, academics, nuns and social advocates. On a conference call, Representative Patrick J. Murphy -- who represents Bucks County, Pa., and prefaced his remarks by noting that he was St. Anselm's Altar Boy of the Year in 1987 -- said that Mr. Obama spoke ''to the better angels in all of us.''
 Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, another prominent Catholic supporting Mr. Obama, noted: ''I don't agree with him on some issues. We disagree on abortion.'' But Mr. Casey said he believed that Mr. Obama, as president, would advocate for ''the least, the last and the lost.''
 Republicans said their party raised its share of Catholic voters from 37 percent in the 1996 presidential election to 52 percent in 2004, part of their overall success in wooing and mobilizing church-going voters. They vow to hold them this time. 
 ''We're going to devote substantial resources to winning the Catholic vote,'' said Frank Donatelli, deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee. ''I think the natural home of Catholics is the Republican Party.'' 
 The campaign of Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, recently rolled out his National Catholics for McCain Committee, with Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, as a co-chairman. 
 Mr. Brownback's chief of staff, Rob Wasinger, said Mr. McCain was ''the full package'' for Catholics, with his opposition to abortion and his support for overhauling immigration laws, a major issue for Hispanic Catholics. Against this backdrop, the pope's words and gestures will be scrutinized not just by the faithful and the theologians, but also by political professionals in both parties.
 ''The Republicans are just hoping and praying he'll say something about abortion and gay marriage, and the Democrats are terrified he will,'' said the Rev. Thomas Reese, a senior fellow and political scientist at the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University. ''But at the United Nations, he will also say a lot of things to the left of Hillary and Obama.''
 In fact, some conservatives worry that the war in Iraq, opposed by the Catholic Church from its inception, is hurting the Republican Party among Catholic voters -- just as it is with other independent and swing voters.
 ''There's one big question mark hanging over the Catholic vote, and that's the Iraq war,'' said Deal Hudson, an informal adviser to Mr. McCain and a longtime adviser to President Bush on Catholic matters.
 Catholic voters are hardly monolithic, either in their demographics or in their political philosophy. They range from upscale suburbanites to first-generation working-class Hispanics. The church itself has teachings that, taken as a whole, do not fit neatly into either party -- often to the left on poverty, health care and economic justice, for example, and to the right on abortion and embryonic stem-cell research.
 But Catholics play enough of a role as a swing vote to draw the intense focus of political strategists. Catholics were a reliable part of the urban, New Deal coalition for many years but trended Republican in the 1970s and 1980s, becoming an important element of the so-called Reagan Democrats. After swinging back to the Democrats in the early 1990s, and then voting 53 percent to 37 percent for Mr. Clinton in 1996, they voted narrowly for Al Gore in 2000 but then returned to the Republicans in 2004.
 That was a difficult year for the Democrats in several respects. Their nominee, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, was himself a Catholic, but his support for abortion rights drew the ire of some conservative bishops who challenged his right to receive communion. After that election, Democrats went through soul-searching about the way they approached Catholic and other religious voters.
 Whoever ends up with the Democratic nomination, Pennsylvania is proving to be an important testing ground for both candidates' ability to speak to these voters. G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist and pollster at Franklin & Marshall, estimated that ''somewhere between 32 and 36 percent'' of the voters in the primary would be Catholic. 
 Theories abound for why Mr. Obama runs less strongly in that group, including the possibility that he has a evangelical speaking style that, as Mr. Reese put it, is ''just not what they hear in their churches.''
 But Dr. Madonna noted that there were ''overlapping demographics'' at work -- the group includes a lot of older and blue-collar workers -- that tended to explain Mrs. Clinton's advantage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama have taken steps to woo Catholic voters, who once were a reliable part of the Democrats' New Deal coalition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); FAMILY (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); ABORTION (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



406 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Cash Sustains City In Downturn

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City has started to slide into the economic downturn that is enveloping much of the country. But the city has a counterbalance against recession that few other American cities share: a rising tide of free-spending foreign visitors.
 After a record year of tourism and business travel in 2007, the influx has continued to grow this year, city officials said. About one million more visitors came to the city -- more than one fifth of them foreigners -- in the first three months of 2008 than in the first quarter of last year, according to a preliminary estimate from NYC & Company, the city's marketing arm. 
 Foreign tourists are filling up the tables at the city's pricier restaurants. Danny Meyer, who operates several highly rated restaurants in Manhattan, said that he added the Euro equivalent to prices on the wine list at the Modern, the restaurant in the Museum of Modern Art, to impress upon tourists what bargains the bottles were.
 The device worked: ''We have sold more wines and more expensive wines,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 Broadway theaters are filling up at an average ticket price of more than $75, and the city's hotels remain nearly full at a record average of about $270 a night, according to NYC & Company.
 One of the main attractions is a dollar so weak against the Euro and other currencies that everything in New York appears to be on sale. NYC & Company estimated that foreign visitors spent about $560 million more in the first three months of 2008 than in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 7 percent. 
 While the number of international tourists coming to the United States last year was still two million below the number who visited in 2000 -- the year before the Sept. 11 attacks -- New York has bucked that trend. It was the only one of the 10 American cities most popular with foreign visitors that drew more of them in 2006 than in 2000, according to the federal Department of Commerce. 
 Los Angeles, Miami and Chicago each recorded a drop of more than 950,000 annual visitors from outside of North America during that period, the Commerce Department's figures show. The Travel Industry Association in Washington estimates that the decline in tourism from overseas since 9/11 has cost the United States nearly $100 billion in lost spending and nearly 200,000 jobs.
 Mike Stengel, who oversees five full-service Marriott hotels in the city, said that guests were coming from all over the globe, attracted by a weak dollar and New York's polished-up image overseas. On Tuesday morning, Mr. Stengel ate breakfast at the Marriott Marquis with 15 travel agents from China, only five of whom had been to the city before.
 After breakfast, the group was going to go shopping at Woodbury Common, an outlet mall an hour north of the city. To get there, Mr. Stengel said, the group planned to walk, unescorted, the six blocks from the hotel to the Port Authority Bus Terminal and catch a public bus, a venture around Times Square that he said a tour group would not have considered four or five years ago.
 Already this year, foreigners have made about 10,000 more overnight stays in the city's five full-service Marriotts than in the first 3 1/2 months of 2007, Mr. Stengel said. Over all, he said, Marriott's hotel business in the city is up about 6 percent over last year, he said.
 ''Domestic tourist business is down, but it's being made up by international business,'' Mr. Stengel said. Banquets and other catered events have been shrinking since turmoil on Wall Street began threatening to end the long rebound of New York's economy. 
 Of course, spending by Europeans and other foreigners was an important factor in the city's economic boom from 2003 through last year. And real estate developers and brokers have credited foreign buyers of condominiums with keeping prices high in New York's extraordinarily strong housing market.
 On Broadway, attendance and revenue are off only slightly from last year, even after a three-week strike by stagehands last fall, according to the Broadway League. But some shows, including ''Wicked'' and ''Jersey Boys,'' are still filling all of their seats at average ticket prices of more than $100. 
 Even as foreign visitors are continuing on a spending spree, American visitors, especially those sent here by their employers, have become more frugal, said George A. Fertitta, president of NYC & Company.
 Tourism industry executives, he said, are noticing that the Americans are spending less on food and drinks.
 ''Everybody has said, 'Knock off the expense account,' '' Mr. Fertitta said. ''Where a group might have spent $300 on something, now they're spending $150.'' He added that, ''We're hoping that the international visitor can make up a lot of that.''
 Mr. Meyer said he saw that happening at his establishments. Revenue at his restaurants, including Union Square Cafe and Gramercy Tavern, he said, was flat so far this year because foreigners are filling seats left open by Wall Street deal-makers on a diet.
 ''The recession is definitely impacting especially those people who were doing lots and lots of deals on lots and lots of nights a week in investment banking and the mergers and acquisitions business,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 But for the mid-priced restaurants in and around the city, the decline is well under way, said Malcolm M. Knapp, a restaurant industry consultant.
 Mr. Knapp said that the number of customers dining in chain restaurants like Applebee's and Outback Steakhouse in the metropolitan area dropped by 3.4 percent in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (74%); MENU PRICES (74%); EURO (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (66%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (68%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



407 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Push States To Try a Mix Of Solutions

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
As the federal government debates responses to the foreclosure crisis, states are experimenting with a broad range of solutions, including emergency loans and agreements to limit high interest rates. The result is a rapidly changing patchwork of local approaches, some far-reaching, others modest, according to a survey issued Tuesday by the Pew Charitable Trusts.
 Among other measures, 20 states have created intervention programs, 13 have set up counseling hot lines, 14 have assembled task forces and 9 have established funds for emergency loans or refinance loans, totaling $450 million. 
 ''States have had to step into the void because the federal government has not moved,'' said Tobi Walker, a senior program officer at Pew. ''The nature of the problem changes quickly; that's why it's important to look to states, which can be far more innovative. They can adapt solutions to local circumstances.'' 
 It is too soon to say how effective any of the programs will be. 
 The states face an uphill battle, in part because of resistance from the lending industry to new regulation. Only nine states require mortgage brokers to consider the best interests of borrowers when making loans, and only seven require lenders to assess borrowers' ability to repay. At the same time, state governments are hamstrung by declining revenues as a result of the housing meltdown. 
 Ohio, which has been hit particularly hard, with 85,000 properties going into foreclosure last year, announced last week a nonbinding agreement with nine large loan servicers to modify troubled loans and report their progress to state officials. In addition, the state's chief justice recruited more than 1,000 lawyers to represent borrowers free of charge, and the state set up a hot line to direct borrowers to the lawyers. 
 ''We need more help from the federal government,'' said Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat. ''The states are in trouble. States do not have resources or mechanisms to deal with this issue.''
 But even so, Bill Faith, executive director of the Coalition on Homelessness and Housing in Ohio, said the results were visible on the ground. ''Up through the end of 2007, counselors and homeowners said, 'We call these companies and we get the runaround, we can't get through the maze,' '' said Mr. Faith, referring to loan servicers. ''We weren't seeing any significant modifications. That's beginning to change. When I talk to the nonprofits, they say they've had as many loan modifications in the first quarter of 2008 as in all of 2007.'' 
 Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a Republican, this week asked loan servicers in the state to sign a similar agreement, and he announced a program to pay for mediators when counselors and lenders come to an impasse in modifying loan terms. The state's Commerce Department also set up a hot line for housing counselors to call when they cannot get responses from lenders. 
 Using public and private money, the state provided grants to increase the number of housing counselors to 37 from 18. But even so, foreclosures are expected to rise this year. 
 ''States have an important role in the foreclosure crisis, and Minnesota is taking among the most aggressive actions to help homeowners,'' said Brian McClung, a spokesman for the governor. ''But at a broader level we're hopeful the federal government will provide some overarching structure.'' 
 In all, about 20 states formed partnerships with the nonprofit Homeownership Preservation Foundation, which provides homeownership and foreclosure counseling, sometimes over the telephone. 
 In Colorado, the state housing division raised $750,000 in private donations to hire a nonprofit agency to run a hot line that refers callers for counseling in person. The program grew out of a consortium of lenders, servicers, nonprofit groups and state and federal agencies. ''It needs to be a public-private partnership,'' said Kathi Williams, the division's director. 
 Mrs. Williams said that the hot line received 30,000 calls last year, and that four of five callers who received counseling had so far stayed out of foreclosure. But foreclosure remains a tenacious problem, up 10 percent over last year, compared with a 30 percent jump in 2007. 
 Other states have called for delays in the foreclosure process, emergency loans and legislation to prevent foreclosure rescue fraud. Maryland passed a ban on prepayment penalities, which make it onerous or impossible for many borrowers to refinance high-cost loans. 
 While several states -- including Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, North Carolina and Ohio -- have passed legislation requiring tighter underwriting standards for lenders, such legislation may be more effective at the national level, said Ms. Walker of Pew, because of the concerted resistance by the lending industry. 
 Not all state programs have been effective, said Allen Fishbein, director of housing and credit policy at the nonprofit Consumer Federation of America. An emergency loan program in Maryland failed because its eligibility requirements disqualified the people who needed it most. 
 ''Trying to find loan products is a process of trial and error,'' said Thomas E. Perez, the state secretary of labor, licensing and regulation. ''We now have new products that allow people with blemishes on their credit record to qualify. We're learning from our mistakes.''
 While states are working ahead of federal policy, many say the problem is too big for states to handle on their own. 
 ''It's tinkering around the edges,'' said Mr. Faith of the Ohio homeless organization. ''We're saving a few thousand homeowners when we have 85,000 foreclosure filings a year. We've been trying to see what we can do in the absence of action on the federal level. But we don't have the resources or the regulatory authority or the leverage with the industry. Much more serious progress is only going to be achieved if the feds take appropriate action.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: HOMES AT RISK: Projected foreclosures as a percentage of homeowners (primarily 2008-9) (Source: Pew Center on the States) (pg. A18) Map showing the projected foreclosures as a percentage of homeowners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



408 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2396 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 DRUG CARTELS BRING BLOODBATH
 To Mexican Border Town
 Even by the Wild West standards of Ciudad Juarez, a border town in Mexico where drug dealers have long smuggled cargo across the Rio Grande, the last three months have been a bloodbath. A turf war among drug cartels has claimed more than 210 lives. President Felipe Calderon sent in 2,026 soldiers and 425 federal agents, but even they are intimidated. PAGE A10 
 U.N. URGES CHANGES TO FEED POOR
 Major agricultural countries must urgently change their policies to avoid a social explosion from rising food prices, a panel of 400 United Nations experts warned in a report, adding their voices to new concerns about the balance between saving the environment and feeding the poor. ''Modern agriculture will have to change radically,'' said one biodiversity specialist. PAGE A6 
 ZIMBABWE PROTEST FIZZLES
 The call by Zimbabwe's political opposition for people nationwide to stay away from work to protest a 17-day delay in releasing the results of the presidential election largely failed to interrupt the normal flow of life in the cities. People lucky enough to have jobs in the country, which has 80 percent unemployment, explained that they could not afford to lose a day's pay. ''We have to eat,'' explained one. PAGE A12 
 PUTIN TO TAKE HELM OF PARTY
 President Vladimir V. Putin accepted an offer to lead the dominant political party in Russia once he leaves office and takes the post of prime minister, potentially setting the stage for years of power-sharing with the president-elect, Dmitri Medvedev, his hand-picked successor. PAGE A11 
 INDIA'S TIGERS SAVED, AT A PRICE
 The Nagarhole National Park in India holds one of the largest concentrations of tigers in the world. But making the area healthy for the animal is a success 20 years in the making, with forest officials driving out people who have lived in the woods for generations. The resulting debate took on new urgency when a law went into effect granting formal land rights to those who have lived in the forest since 2005, like the incense maker pictured above. PAGE A6 
 Pakistani Film Released in India A8 
 Iran Confirms Arrest of Police Chief A8 
 National
 LAWSUIT AIMS TO SPUR CHANGE
 In Oklahoma's Foster System
 A foster child in Oklahoma's foster care system was rotated in and out of various living situations 42 times before she turned 18 last year. She complained that a foster father climbed into bed with her in his underwear, and was moved again, but state workers placed other children into the same home until the man was arrested for molesting his niece. This is one of the stories in a federal lawsuit brought by child advocates in Oklahoma, which federal data says has one of the worst records of documented abuse of children in the country's foster homes. The state is fighting the lawsuit, saying its system has strength and weaknesses, and points to its high rates of adoption of foster children. PAGE A14
 SECT MOTHERS REACT TO SEPARATION
 After the authorities raided the compound of a polygamist sect in West Texas, the mothers and children of the sect have been separated. ''I'm not going to just sit and wait,'' said one of the mothers. ''I have to do something every day to let them know that I want my children back.'' The children are being held by the state's Department of Family and Protective Services, which said that the mothers ''have been unable to protect these children from abuse.'' PAGE A15
 APPROACHES TO FORECLOSURE
 States are looking at ways to solve the nation's home foreclosure crisis, which has resulted in a patchwork of larger and smaller scale local approaches, according to a survey by the Pew Charitable Trusts. But the states are facing resistance from the lending industry, which is wary of new regulation. PAGE A14
 BUSINESS
 Journal Says Merck Wrote Vioxx Papers for Doctors
 An article in the Journal of the American Medical Association said that the drug maker Merck wrote dozens of research studies for their best-selling pain drug, Vioxx, before getting doctors to attach their names to the reports before publication. Vioxx was pulled off the market after it was linked to heart attacks. Merck said it sometimes hired doctors to draft reports before they were handed over to the doctors whose names would eventually appear as authors on the reports, but denied the assertion that the final authors did little research or analysis of their own. PAGE C1
 AT THE CENTER OF THE MERGER
 ''Ask Richard Anderson.'' That's what a chief executive at a rival airline said when asked about how the nation's domestic airlines would consolidate. Now, Mr. Anderson, Delta's chief executive, is a big cheerleader for the completed merger between Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines that was supposed to transform the domestic airline industry, but has already gotten off to a rough start. The deal faces opposition from Northwest's pilots who fear that they will be paid less than Delta pilots, and the stock prices for both carriers tumbled after the announcement. PAGE C1
 FIELDING SCRIPTS, PLAYING HARDBALL
 Last fall's 100-day television writers' strike delivered a gut punch to Los Angeles' economy, shelved plans for movie blockbusters that were in the works, and shut down most TV production. But a possible strike by the Actor's Guild -- over some of the same contentious issues that were the center of the writer's strike -- would wreak even more havoc and shut down just about all entertainment production. At the center of the storm is the outspoken Alan Rosenberg, the gravelly voiced character actor who is SAG's president. PAGE C1
 CANADA TO DECLARE CHEMICAL TOXIC
 The Canadian government is reportedly about to declare toxic B.P.A., a chemical found in the plastics used for baby bottles, beverage and food containers as well as linings in food cans that disrupts he hormonal system of animals. Canada's finding, which may come as early as today, would be the first by any country on B.P.A. PAGE C3
 AND UP SOME MORE: OIL HITS $114
 Oil prices hit a new high -- $114 a barrel. The latest jump in prices followed a string of pipeline interruptions in Nigeria and the Midwest, and energy prices in the United States show no signs of falling. The price of gasoline at the pump hit a new record of 3.39 a gallon, more than 50 cents higher than a year ago. PAGE C3
 NEW YORK REPORT
 PLAN TO REZONE IN HARLEM
 Clears Crucial Hurdles
 The Bloomberg administration's proposal to rezone 125th Street in Harlem was virtually assured passage when the area's three City Council representatives signed off on a compromise plan that would limit the heights of new buildings, add affordable housing and provide financial aid to businesses displaced by the rezoning. The proposal had led to widespread opposition in the neighborhood. PAGE B1 
 STRIKE TIMED WITH PAPAL VISIT
 About 350 teachers at Roman Catholic schools in New York City and its northern suburbs went on strike, choosing the day of Pope Benedict XVI's arrival on American soil to send a sharp message to the Archdiocese of New York. ''We're not demonstrating against the pope,'' said a spokesman. ''We saw this as an opportunity to tell the people who come to New York that this Catholic diocese is not preaching what the pope is preaching.'' PAGE B2 
 DAY IN COURT FOR POTTER FAN
 The librarian at the heart of the Harry Potter copyright-infringement lawsuit, Steven Jan Vander Ark, above, stood up to J. K. Rowling in a Manhattan courtroom and broke down sobbing. He portrayed the famous writer as unaccountably bewitched by the evil forces of publishing. Ms. Rowling responded to Mr. Vander Ark's testimony through a spokeswoman: ''A fan's affectionate enthusiasm should not obscure acts of plagiarism.'' PAGE B1 
 SHOULD CLINTON RUN FOR GOVERNOR?
 Some New York Democrats have reportedly been pitching New York's executive mansion as a kind of consolation prize for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton -- a face-saving exit to the presidential primary that they believe she cannot win and which, they fear, is tearing the Democratic Party apart. The notion of a Clinton gubernatorial run has been flatly rejected by Mrs. Clinton's aides. PAGE B3 
 Sports
 BOYCOTTING THE OLYMPICS:
 A Very Bad Idea
 George Vecsey says that while protesters are right to use the occasion of this summer's Olympics in Beijing to protest Chinese politics in Darfur, Tibet and elsewhere, a boycott of the Games would be counterproductive. ''Better the president and other world leaders should belatedly learn how to conduct diplomacy and draw attention to Beijing's poor record in human rights and not use an overblown sports jamboree to cover up for their failures,'' he writes. PAGE D2 
 THE FALCONS PICK UP THE PIECES
 It would be an understatement to call the Atlanta Falcon's previous N.F.L. campaign as disappointing: it was a disaster. Michael Vick, the team's franchise player, was sent to prison. Their head coach fled to the college ranks, and their desired replacement for him, Bill Parcells, opted to coach elsewhere. Somewhere in their, the team limped to a losing record, and fans abandoned the team in droves. Arthur Blank, the team's owner and a founder of Home Depot, wants to rebuild his ailing team, but is wary of any quick fixes. PAGE D1 
 Obituaries
 PATRICK J. HILLERY, 84
 An Irish physician-turned-politician, he served 14 years as Ireland's president after a long ministerial career and negotiated Ireland's entry into the European Common Market. He also won admiration for his handling of the volatile issue of British rule in Northern Ireland. PAGE A23 
 KRISTER STENDAHL, 86
 A former dean of Harvard Divinity School, he was also a Lutheran bishop in Sweden who pushed for the ordination of gay men and lesbians and against use of sexist language in Scriptures, saying that Jesus' maleness was no more significant than the color of his eyes. PAGE A23
 ARTS
 $4 BILLION IN (REAL-LIFE) SALES,
 Thanks to School-Age Girls
 Electronic Arts, the publisher of the Sims, a popular video game series in which players build a virtual household, plans to announce that the franchise has sold more than 100 million copies (including expansion packs) in 22 languages and 60 countries since its introduction in 2000. The $4 billion in sales has been generated in large part by the game's core, most passionate audience: school-age girls. PAGE E1 
 COMIC BOOK CREATORS' HERO
 ''Living legend'' is how Joe Simon is categorized on the list of guests appearing on a panel at the New York Comic Con. One reason is that he was half of the pair that created Captain America. Another is that in 2003 he secured from Marvel Comics royalties for merchandising and licensing use of the character -- a feat worthy of its own comic. (Some of the founding fathers of American superheroes are still seeking justice.) Mr. Simon, 94, has a different take on the panel: ''I call it the old-geezer table.'' PAGE E1 
 NOT MERELY ACTING LIKE A SINGER
 She & Him, a new indie rock group featuring the actress Zooey Deschanel and M. Ward, a musician based in Portland, Ore., appears not to be the usual vanity project by a singing actor. Ms. Deschanel wrote most of the vintage-sounding country-tinged songs herself, for starters. Also, the duo were also a hit at South by Southwest, they have received acclaim from magazines and blogs alike, and their two coming shows in New York have sold out. PAGE E1 
 REALITY SHOW FOR THE AGE OF BOTOX
 Forty might be the new 30. But while social attitudes about chalking up 480 months have changed, it is still a deal big enough for its own television show. ''The Big 4-0,'' a new reality series, documents people turning 40 in the age of Viagra, fat-sucking surgery and life coaches. Stories include that of Lisa Custard, a former model who plans a birthday party at a Beverly Hills club that culminates with her popping out of a cake. PAGE E3 
 Broadway to Begin Labor Talks E1 
 Bernard Holland: Anne-Sophie Mutter at Carnegie Hall E5 
 DINING
 CHEFS UNDER PRESSURE
 Say the Darnedest Things
 Last week's episode of ''Top Chef'' ended in a volley of profanity. The first line of a recent article about the chef David Chang in The New Yorker contained a profane quotation. (So did the last line, and many of the lines in between.) And leaping outside of broadcasting rules on a regular basis is Gordon Ramsay, the star of shows ''Hell's Kitchen'' and ''Kitchen Nightmares.'' It's as if the dog called in the media before tearing off after the postman. PAGE F1 
 YOU VOTE WHAT YOU EAT
 If there's butter in your refrigerator and Fig Newtons in your cookie jar, you're likely to vote for Hillary Clinton. Prefer olive oil, Bear Naked granola and a latte to go? You probably like Barack Obama. Political advisers to the presidential candidates are looking closely at consumer behavior as a way to scavenge for votes. The practice is called microtargeting. PAGE F8 
 KOSHER WINE, READY FOR ANY TABLE
 Passover is right around the corner, and as surely as Thanksgiving leads to turkey talk, the approach of this Jewish holiday calls attention to kosher wines. They have improved so vastly over the years, and so many are available nowadays, that the issue of whether they are kosher is relevant only to observant Jews. PAGE F6 
 Editorial
 GUNS AND BITTER
 We thought the Republican presidential primaries were over. So we are at a loss to explain why Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton have been wandering around Pennsylvania, Indiana and anywhere else they might find a vote arguing about which one cares more about guns and religion. PAGE A24
 THE LIMITS OF THE DEATH PENALTY
 In recent decades, the Supreme Court has looked for ways to limit the death penalty, but it is hearing arguments in a case that could expand capital punishment. The court should stand by its past rulings that murder is the only crime committed by one person against another that can be punished by death. PAGE A24
 MR. BERLUSCONI'S COMEBACK
 The master showman of Italian politics, Silvio Berlusconi, is back for a third term as prime minister. Italy needs him to do better this time. PAGE A24
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 The candidates, and their spouses, descended on the city of cheese steaks and brotherly love to dispel notions of elitism and argue about who would be the poorest first family. PAGEA25 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CARTELS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); FOSTER CARE (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WILD CATS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BIODIVERSITY (75%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (67%); POLICE FORCES (65%); CHILD ABUSE (64%); LITIGATION (64%); ARRESTS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (93%) MEXICO (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



409 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Hit a New High, and So Does a Gallon of Gas

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices surged to a new high on Tuesday, reaching $114 a barrel, as scattered pipeline interruptions and a weak dollar agitated a tight global market. 
 Crude oil futures jumped $2.03, to close at $113.79 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil prices have gained more than 18 percent since the beginning of the year, and have increased 125 percent since early 2007.
 Rising oil prices are helping to drive up the cost of gasoline. Retail gasoline has hit a record $3.39 a gallon on average nationwide, according to AAA, the automobile club. That's more than 50 cents higher than a year ago. Diesel prices have posted even bigger gains. Diesel now averages $4.12 a gallon, according to AAA, $1.18 more than last year. 
 The immediate impetus for the moves in recent days has been a string of interruptions in pipeline operations in the Midwest and in Nigeria, as well as a shutdown of Mexican export terminals in the Gulf of Mexico because of bad weather. While small, these interruptions underline how sensitive the market is to the slightest disruption.
 Oil's surge indicates that energy prices are showing no signs of falling despite slowing economic growth worldwide, particularly in the United States. The higher fuel prices, along with rising food prices, are contributing to sharp inflation. 
 The Labor Department said on Tuesday that the Producer Price Index jumped 1.1 percent in March, sharply accelerating from a 0.3 percent increase in February. The increase, twice what economists had expected, was led by a surge in gasoline and in home heating oil prices. That news comes not long after the International Monetary Fund sharply cut its global growth forecast amid troubles in the credit markets and warned that the United States economy might shrink.
 The darker outlook prompted the International Energy Agency, a forecaster for developed countries, to cut its estimates for global oil demand this year by nearly half a million barrels a day. In its most recent monthly report, the agency said it expected oil consumption to grow by 1.3 million barrels a day in 2008, to 87.2 million barrels a day. That's 460,000 barrels a day less than its previous forecast. Higher energy costs are hurting businesses and consumers alike and are adding to the woes of an economy ailing from a housing slump and a credit crisis. As a result, many analysts expect gasoline consumption to drop this year. The United States is the world's top oil consumer, accounting for nearly a quarter of global demand.
 While higher energy prices are spurring a fresh wave of investments in oil projects, oil producers are also facing a tougher time expanding their supplies. 
 Russia's production appears to be reaching a plateau after years of strong growth following its post-Soviet slump. Mexico's oil output has been falling because of insufficient investments by its state-owned oil company, Pemex. 
 This week also brought some potentially good news for the future growth in supplies. The head of Brazil's national oil agency suggested that the country had discovered a huge new offshore field that could potentially be three times the size of the country's proven reserves. Petrobras, Brazil's national oil company, declined to comment about the find.
 Little relief is expected from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in the short term. While President Bush has urged oil producers to increase output, the oil cartel is unwilling to step in to lower prices. 
 OPEC producers, which account for 40 percent of the world's oil exports, see oil demand falling in coming months. They consider that the global oil market is currently well supplied with oil and that prices are being moved more by market psychology than fundamental factors.
 Members of OPEC are not scheduled to meet until September to consider new production targets. Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said last week that current oil prices had little to do with global supplies. 
 ''I am not going to pull back; I'm not going to dump crude on the market,'' Mr. Naimi said last week, according to Reuters.
 On Saturday, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia also said that new oil discoveries in the kingdom would remain untapped to preserve the nation's oil wealth for future generations, according to various reports. 
 ''Let them remain in the ground for our children and grandchildren who need them,'' the king said in a speech, quoted by the Saudi Press Agency.
 In its latest monthly report, released Tuesday, OPEC said it expected global demand to fall by 1.4 million barrels a day in the second quarter, when consumption in the northern hemisphere typically slows after winter. 
 Analysts have also blamed a weak dollar for pushing up oil prices as investors seek to buy commodity assets to hedge against the dollar's decline, and rising inflation. The dollar has also dropped against the euro because of concern about the status of the overall American economy. It recently traded at $1.5811 against the euro, near its lows.
 ''The financial investors, such as sovereign funds, hedge funds, pension funds, and commodity fund managers, are all betting on the weak dollar,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''This is now as much about the direction of the dollar as it is about the direction of oil.''
 So far this year, oil prices have averaged about $100 a barrel. That compares with $72 a barrel last year, and $26 a barrel in 2001. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gasoline topped $4 a gallon in Palo Alto, Calif., on Tuesday. The average cost nationwide is $3.39, according to AAA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HEATING OIL (79%); DIESEL FUEL (79%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GAS STATIONS (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



410 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: White-Collar Crime

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Justice Shift, Corporate Deals Replace Trials'' (front page, April 9):
 With more than 1,200 convictions in the last six years, this Justice Department has hardly been soft on corporate crime. We remain committed to indicting and obtaining convictions against corporations where appropriate. 
 In some cases, however, the department may defer prosecution of a company in exchange for its agreement to certain conditions. Often these include payment of restitution and/or fines, implementation of an effective compliance program that prevents future wrongdoing, and cooperation with continuing investigations against other wrongdoers. 
 Significantly, a deferred prosecution agreement may accomplish these results without the delay and resources that often accompany a formal conviction. If the corporation engages in misconduct during the deferral period, criminal charges may be reinstituted.
 There is no ''get out of jail free card'' with D.P.A.'s. Corporations cannot go to jail; only people can. The department continues to aggressively prosecute individuals involved in corporate crime. A D.P.A. can facilitate that task, and what's more, shows due regard for protecting the public, investors, employees and other innocent third parties from potential collateral consequences of a corporate indictment. 
 David E. Nahmias Atlanta, April 11, 2008
 The writer is United States attorney, Northern District of Georgia, and chairman, White Collar Crime Subcommittee, Attorney General's Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys.
 To the Editor:
 It should be noted that in the history of the United States, very few criminal cases against large corporations have ever gone to trial. The collapse of Arthur Andersen only need happen once every decade to remind us that corporate criminal trials should be the resolution of last resort. By the time the company was exonerated by the United States Supreme Court, it had been forced out of business anyway, and tens of thousands of innocent men and women had lost their jobs.
 A more diligent examination of prosecutors' use of deferred prosecution agreements would likely show the real story, that many deferred prosecution agreements are authorized in cases that would have never been prosecuted. 
 Indeed, I suspect that an accurate assessment of deferred prosecution agreements would indicate that they are representative of more, rather than less, government oversight of companies and a conclusion that prosecution is not warranted because of a lack of criminal intent by those left in charge at the corporation; or at most a shifting focus at the Justice Department from prosecution to reform. That would be far better for the economy than putting people out of work. 
 Carmen D. Hernandez President, National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers Washington, April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



411 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 733 words

PERSON: Patrick J. Hillery 

HEADLINE: Patrick J. Hillery, Who Helped Point Ireland to Peace, Dies at 84

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
Patrick J. Hillery, a physician-turned-politician who served 14 years as Ireland's president after a long ministerial career that won him admiration for his handling of the volatile issue of British rule in Northern Ireland, died Saturday in Dublin. He was 84. 
 A government announcement said his death followed a short illness, but gave no other details. 
 Mr. Hillery also had a role in negotiating Ireland's entry into the European Economic Community in 1973. His two terms as president, from 1976 to 1990, ended before the 1998 Good Friday agreement, which set terms for an end to violence in Northern Ireland. But he acted at crucial moments as an emollient influence on the republic's policies toward the north, and set a tone that helped pave the way for eventual peace 
 His approach, especially as Ireland's foreign minister, combined moments of confrontation with Britain over its policies toward the Roman Catholic minority in Northern Ireland with a similarly steadfast attitude toward hard-line nationalists within his own Fianna Fail party, which has dominated Irish politics for long periods since the 1922 agreement that created separate governments in Dublin and Belfast.
 He became foreign minister in 1969, just as a new era of sectarian violence began in Northern Ireland.
 He stirred antagonism in London with his protests against the failure of the Protestant-dominated police in Northern Ireland to protect Catholic areas and rights protesters. Snubbed in London, he took his case to the United Nations, proposing unsuccessfully that the task of keeping peace be handed to a joint British and Irish military force or to a United Nations peacekeeping force.
 After the first British Army house searches in the north provoked further Catholic protests, he brushed aside diplomatic protocol to make an unannounced visit to the Catholic stronghold in the Falls Road area of Belfast, further infuriating the British.
 After 13 civilians were killed by British troops in the ''Bloody Sunday'' shooting in Londonderry in 1972, Mr. Hillery took his case to Washington.
 ''I believe the British government have gone mad,'' he told an American television interviewer at the time. He predicted that Britain's ''lunatic course'' in sending troops to the north could lead to war between Britain and Ireland.
 But those and other incidents masked a determination to steer a course toward peace. Years after he made his Falls Road visit, he said he had made the trip to pre-empt hard-liners in the Dublin cabinet who were planning to go to Belfast and encourage the armed resistance against British rule that was led by the Irish Republican Army. He also opposed demands among Fianna Fail hard-liners for an early withdrawal of British troops. 
 ''Northern Ireland is an armed state,'' he said. ''There are over 100,000 guns in private hands, and this problem must be solved before withdrawal.''
 Patrick John Hillery was born on May 2, 1923, on the west coast of County Clare; his father was a doctor. After earning a medical degree at University College Dublin, he lived briefly in Canada before winning an election in 1951 to the Dail, the Irish Parliament, as a running mate of Eamon de Valera, who led the Irish struggle for independence. He was education minister from 1959 to 1966, promoting comprehensive schools outside the jurisdiction of the Catholic Church that have been credited with helping Ireland produce the educated work force that contributed to the economic boom of the last 20 years.
 After Ireland joined Europe, he was appointed as Ireland's representative on the European Commission; as the official in charge of social policy, he promoted the rights of migrant workers and defended equal pay for women.
 Reluctantly, he ran unopposed for the Irish presidency after the incumbent, Cearbhall O Dalaigh, resigned over a bitter dispute with the defense minister. Mr. Hillery adopted an insistently nonpartisan stance, retreating from public view and spending much of his time playing golf. 
 He is survived by his wife, Mary Beatrice, known as Maeve, and a son, John, who is also a doctor. A daughter, Vivienne, died before him. 
 He made no secret that he found the job of a figurehead frustrating. 
 ''Children used to ask me if it was nice to be president, and you would have to say 'yes,' '' he said after leaving office. ''You know, you couldn't disappoint them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick J. Hillery (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK BURNS/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1972) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); POLITICS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); RELIGION (75%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); ARMIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRELAND (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



412 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Stories Follow a Lawsuit on Oklahoma Foster Care

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: OKLAHOMA CITY 

 BODY:
From age 4, when she was taken from her drug-using mother, until she turned 18 last year and left the foster care system, Sasha Gray moved a total of 42 times. There were emergency shelters, foster homes, group homes, a brief trial with her mother and short stays in psychiatric care because of defiant behavior.
 When she complained that a foster father had climbed into her bed in his underwear, she was moved again, but state workers kept placing other children in the same house until the man was arrested for molesting his niece. 
 ''Instead of properly investigating it, they let it slide,'' Ms. Gray said. She now lives with an aunt and despite the traumatic churning of homes and ''parents,'' she finished high school and is studying to be a nurse. 
 Ms. Gray's stories of displacement and abuse while in state custody are unusually common in Oklahoma, according to a new lawsuit and many lawyers, foster parents, former foster children, volunteer mentors and even state employees. 
 Federal data shows that Oklahoma consistently has one of the worst records in the country of documented abuse of children in foster or group homes. In addition to frequent moves and extended stays in overcrowded shelters, the system is short of foster parents, social workers and needed therapies. 
 All this has exposed many children to lasting psychological damage, including an inability to form emotional bonds, according to the lawsuit, a class-action filed in February by Children's Rights, an advocacy organization, and several local lawyers.
 Child advocates here are using the federal courts, as they have in more than a dozen other states and cities over the last 20 years, to push for an overhaul of the child welfare system. In an inherently difficult field, often plagued by inadequate staffing and financing, such suits have brought major improvements. 
 Alabama, for example, at the time of a 1988 lawsuit, had one of the worst records of protecting children and preserving families. Last year, 14 years of court monitoring ended after the state quadrupled its spending on child welfare and cut caseloads to 18 from 50. 
 Ira Lustbader, a lawyer for Children's Rights, said of Oklahoma, ''This is one of the most dangerous systems for kids in custody we've ever seen.'' 
 The state's Department of Human Services is fighting the suit, saying its system, like any other, has strengths and weaknesses. Officials cite their high adoption rate for foster children as a success, for example, though they admit to shortages of social workers and foster parents. 
 ''Oklahoma is very aggressive at protecting children,'' said Gary Miller, a former judge who was named director of the child and family services division in March, after the suit was filed. 
 But Dynda Post, a district judge for three counties northeast of Tulsa, said, ''The entire system is broken, and there's a lack of accountability to the courts.'' 
 ''If you order a child to get counseling, say for rape or physical abuse or if they're mentally challenged, sometimes you see that kid in custody for months with no treatment,'' Judge Post said.
 And when things go wrong, ''no one is accountable,'' she said. 
 If the federal court agrees that the case can proceed, a possible outcome, based on the experiences of other states, is eventual agreement on a court-monitored program of change. The state could be required to hire more caseworkers, for example, and to provide more psychiatric services to parents and children, to improve emergency shelters and to develop a strategy to attract more foster parents. 
 In Judge Post's own purview, 3-year-old Blake Ragsdale, who was born addicted to methamphetamine and had cerebral palsy and other serious disorders, died last year during a trial reunification with his mother that state workers had arranged without the required court permission. 
 Blake had been removed because of his mother's drug use and neglect. When he was returned to her last year, the state had still not given her special training to meet his medical needs, she was unemployed and had no phone or car -- over all, she was ''woefully unequipped to take care of Blake's special medical needs,'' the lawsuit says. 
 State officials said they were doing their best to cope with a rising number of children in the system, nearly 16,000 during the second half of 2007 and nearly 8,000 on any given day.
 In a statement, the Human Services Department said its good record of monthly checks on foster families meant that more safety problems were discovered, not that abuses were more frequent than in other states. But many foster parents and children said that monitoring records were often falsified by harried workers or that untrained aides made visits. 
 ''I went years without seeing a caseworker,'' Ms. Gray said, adding that in one four-month period she was assigned three different workers. 
 The threat to children is broader than records indicate, critics say, including three state workers who spoke anonymously to protect their jobs. The suit describes an 11-month-old girl, identified as C.S., who was taken soon after birth from a drug-addicted mother and has lived in 17 homes, shelters and hospitals since then. 
 At one point, she was placed with a relative, who threw her against a wall and fractured her skull, the lawsuit says. Many placements later, she had respiratory disease, and a foster parent had her tested for allergies and discovered that she had multiple sensitivities, including to cats and dogs. The household had pets, so she was moved again. 
 One reason for the foster-parent shortage is the state's low payments. But more important, foster parents say, is frustration. 
 ''Great foster parents will identify a child's needs, call D.H.S. for help and get nothing back,'' said Anne B. Sublett, president of a lawyers' group in Tulsa that represents foster children in court. 
 Caseworkers, who are supposed to monitor foster homes regularly and connect children with services, often have more than 50 clients, compared with the 12 to 15 recommended by professional groups. 
 Because the work is stressful and the pay is low, starting at $26,000, turnover is high and many case workers are young and inexperienced. 
 Many states keep emergency homes on call, for temporary placement of children removed from dangerous households. In Oklahoma, such children go instead to large shelters, where they sometimes spend many months waiting for a placement in conditions that some say are unsafe and unpleasant. 
 Destiny Emmons, 15, spoke recently after spending five weeks in the Oklahoma City shelter; she was removed from her mother's house after the mother's ex-boyfriend molested a younger half-sister. Destiny was angry at her removal, and imminent placement in a foster home, saying she wanted to stay with her mother. 
 In the shelter, as Destiny described it, teenagers just sit in a room watching a television when not in school. She said they had to go to bed at 9 each night and had to ask an attendant to unlock the bathroom.
 One of the state workers, who has spent time in the overcrowded shelter in Tulsa, said that staff members were not trained to deal with special medical needs, like heart monitors and feeding or breathing tubes, and that no nurses were on duty at night to help in a crisis. At Christmas, rats and mice ran among the presents under the tree, the worker said. 
 Ms. Gray, now 19, is grateful to a volunteer mentor, Buddy Faye Foster, who was a constant presence through her whirlwind of moves and who helped fight for needed counseling, took her shopping, even helped her obtain a birth certificate. Ms. Foster also encouraged her to speak out for her interests, which sometimes led to conflicts with families or caseworkers. 
 Still, Ms. Gray noted, suffering is relative. 
 ''I've been blessed,'' she said. ''All my homes haven't been horrible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOVING ON: Sasha Gray, 19, who moved 42 times between the ages of 4 and 18, with her mentor, Buddy Faye Foster. Ms. Gray says Ms. Foster was the one constant through the moves
 WAITING FOR PLACEMENT: Destiny Emmons, 15, visiting with her mother, Becky Williams. Destiny was in an Oklahoma City shelter, where, she said, teenagers mostly watched television. She was removed from her mother's house after her mother's ex-boyfriend molested a younger half-sister and was slated for placement in foster care. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (94%); CHILDREN (91%); LITIGATION (91%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); FAMILY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (77%); JUDGES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARRESTS (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (61%)

PERSON: GARY G MILLER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



413 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: An Inflation Indicator Leaves the Fed in a Tough Spot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Businesses continued to grapple with steep inflation last month as oil and food costs hit record highs, leaving Federal Reserve policy makers in a difficult spot ahead of their meeting later this month. 
 A gauge of prices paid by American producers jumped 1.1 percent in March, the Labor Department said on Tuesday, sharply accelerating from a 0.3 percent increase in February.
 The increase, led by a surge in gasoline and home heating oil prices, was twice what economists had expected.
 The higher prices put pressure on businesses to pass on costs to consumers, though some economists said the housing slump and weakening job market could discourage businesses from raising their prices.
 ''Given the weak nature of domestic demand now and going forward, it is unlikely that businesses will have as much success raising prices at the consumer level as they did in the not too distant past,'' Joshua Shapiro, an economist at the research firm MFR, wrote in a note to clients.
 The increases did not spread to popular products like automobiles and clothing. The closely watched core measure of the Producer Price Index, which excludes volatile costs of food and energy, rose 0.2 percent in March, falling back from an unexpected 0.5 percent rise in February.
 The low core rate could take some pressure off the Fed as it tries to balance rising inflation with the overall slowdown in growth. Fed officials have acknowledged that inflation remains a serious concern, but they have signaled they will continue to focus on staving off a prolonged recession.
 Central bankers meet for a two-day session starting on April 29, when they are expected to lower the Fed's benchmark interest rate, a move that can stimulate growth but can also cause prices to rise.
 Still, it will be difficult for the Fed to ignore the large cost increases in energy and food. Energy prices were up 2.9 percent in March, a steep increase from a 0.8 percent rise in February. Food costs rose 1.2 percent after declining 0.5 percent the month before.
 ''The headline numbers on any number of inflation measures continue to be outside the Fed's comfort zone,'' said Roger Bayston, a fixed-income strategist at Franklin Templeton, the investment firm.
 Prices are rising further up the production pipeline, as well. The cost of unfinished products, known as intermediate goods, rose 2.3 percent in March, and crude goods surged 8 percent. These numbers tend to be highly volatile, but they signal that businesses will continue to face higher prices in the months ahead.
 ''It's a balancing act,'' Mr. Bayston said of the Fed's task.
 A separate report on Tuesday showed that manufacturing activity in New York State grew in April, an unexpected recovery from its worst month on record.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRODUCER PRICES: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



414 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: New Ballpark in Washington Anchors an Area's Revival

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Baseball fans flocking to Nationals Park, the brand-new stadium here, see more than a game these days. Approaching along Half Street Southeast from the nearby Metro subway station, they pass construction sites and billboards that tell of a neighborhood being transformed. From inside the stadium, they can see both the Capitol dome and construction cranes jutting into the sky.
 The coming of the $611 million publicly financed stadium for Washington's National League team has coincided with -- and, many say, accelerated -- a striking change in a long-languishing area less than a mile from Capitol Hill.
 Developers call it the Ballpark District. City officials prefer Capitol Riverfront District, in a nod to the Anacostia River, which defines the area's southern edge. 
 But everyone agrees that the change in the neighborhood in the 22 months since work began on the 41,000-seat stadium has been astounding. In what was an urban wasteland of trash-strewn lots, sex clubs, and taxi and auto repair shops, developers have invested in new offices, condominiums, rental apartments, stores and restaurants. 
 This undertaking is still very much a work in progress, but that progress is palpable in the sights and sounds of jackhammers, scaffolds, bulldozers and other heavy construction equipment. Fenced-off areas and hard-hat crews are everywhere. 
 ''It is amazing; there is just a buzz, electricity, a high level of energy in the area you can't ignore,'' said Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, who opposed the city's stadium-financing deal with Major League Baseball when he was on the City Council but now endorses the results. ''From where we were four years ago to where we are now is night and day.''
 The completed neighborhood will contain up to 15 million square feet of offices; 9,000 residential units; 785,000 square feet of retailing; 1,200 hotel rooms; and 4 parks. 
 Despite its unsavory appearance, the area by the new stadium had some positive aspects. The Washington Navy Yard, once a shipbuilding and munitions-making plant and now used largely for ceremonial and command functions, added 12,000 jobs when the Naval Sea Systems Command moved from suburban Arlington, Va., in 1998. 
 Five historic buildings on the base were declared surplus and are planned to become the Yards, a mix of condominiums, restaurants and shops on 42 acres scheduled for completion in 2010 by the Cleveland-based Forest City.
 A further boost was the move of the federal Department of Transportation to a new 1.35-million-square-feet headquarters adjoining the Navy Yard, bringing 5,500 more employees to the area.
 Monument Realty, a prescient local firm, spent $65 million to acquire 49 parcels from 18 owners. It is constructing an office building, a hotel and a residential project, all with retailing, on Half Street. 
 Then lightning struck in 2004. Major League Baseball granted Washington its long-sought-after team, negotiating a deal with the District of Columbia under which the city floated revenue bonds to pay for the stadium. The city later paid $125 million more for infrastructure around the ballpark. 
 The stage was set for the neighborhood -- and land values -- to take off. ''The ballpark has been catalytic,'' says Michael Stevens, executive director of the Capital Riverfront Business Improvement District, a business-financed organization promoting the area.
 He said the office development planned in the riverfront ballpark neighborhood exceeds the total office square footage in each of the downtowns of Memphis, St. Louis and San Antonio.
 ''We ask people to close their eyes and squint and imagine this two years from now,'' he said. ''You are literally building a brand-new downtown.'' 
 He also compares the area to Washington's booming East End, which has had a remarkable revival in the 10 years since the completion of the Verizon Center, home of the Washington Wizards and Mystics basketball teams and the Washington Capitals hockey team. But he says the riverfront ballpark district is further along in a shorter time.
 Ted Lerner, the principal owner of the Washington Nationals and a major developer in the area, warns against expecting overnight success. ''It takes a long time,'' he said during a party on the night of the opening game held on the top floor of a new but unleased 10-story office building that his firm built a block from the stadium. After 13 months, he said, the building was ''zero'' percent occupied.
 But Mr. Lerner is patient. ''There have to be some major tenants making the decision to come, and others will follow,'' Mr. Lerner said.
 Builders, city officials and analysts generally express little concern over the slumping national economy. When the new buildings are ready, in 2009 and 2010, demand will be there, said Elizabeth Norton of Delta Associates, a research firm in Alexandria, Va.
 ''Right when the projects are delivered in the ballpark area is when we think the economy will pick up again,'' she said, ''and the Ballpark District will be successful for office tenants and landlords.''
 Not all the development in the area involves commercial projects. Condos and rental apartments are also rising, promising to populate the neighborhood with upper-income residents who will be able to walk to jobs on Capitol Hill, patronize restaurants and enjoy the neighborhood night life. In the Velocity Capitol Riverfront, a condo scheduled for occupancy in the fall of 2009, 34 of the 200 units have sold since November, at prices ranging from $300,000 to $800,000. 
 ''It's a great energy boost for the city,'' Mayor Fenty said of the rising new neighborhood. ''There is no question the stadium accelerated the development, changed the nature and type of development, the intensity of how people felt and how much they would invest in projects.''
 Yet, as with all such large-scale efforts, there are losers as well as winners. Among those who have suffered are small commercial enterprises whose property taxes have skyrocketed with the neighborhood's revitalization. Most have left or expect to leave soon, while some hang on, hoping for the best.
 Andy Lee's Market Deli has been in the same site for 17 years, and its lease has four more years to run, with a 10-year renewal option. But as is common with commercial tenants in the neighborhood, Mr. Lee must pay the property taxes, which have risen to $22,000, from $2,000, in three years. ''I've got the lease,'' he said. ''That doesn't mean I can stay here forever.''
 Then there's Perfect Nature, a nonprofit agency that helps at-risk youths. It is financed largely by the city. Its property taxes have risen to $86,400 this year, from $3,000 in 2004, consuming a fifth of its budget.
 ''Four years ago, there was nothing here but strip clubs around the corner, a methadone clinic and some auto shops,'' said Brian Bailey, a co-founder. ''We were disappointed about the community. When those things had to move, we were, like, yea. We just never knew we were in the same line of fire.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages of Business Day on Wednesday about extensive development in the neighborhood around the new Nationals Park baseball stadium in Washington misstated the name of a nonprofit agency in the area whose property taxes have soared in recent years. It is Positive Nature, not Perfect Nature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nationals Park, top, and the construction it brought. Rising taxes may force Brian Bailey and Jennifer Murphy, above, to move their nonprofit group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NAVIES (85%); MILITARY BASES (85%); SPORTS FANS (79%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); MAYORS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); RETAILERS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



415 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
BIG PAYDAY The latest rankings of hedge fund managers by Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine show that John Paulson, left, the founder of Paulson & Company, made $3.6 billion last year, and two other managers collected more than $3 billion. 
 BENEFICIARIES OF A CRISIS A measure moving through Congress to help American homeowners in danger of foreclosure also provides billions of dollars in tax breaks for big business. [A1.]
 TURBULENCE Richard Anderson, chief executive of Delta Air Lines, has to convince investors, pilots and customers that the merger with Northwest Airlines is ''a perfect deal.'' [C1.]
 GHOSTWRITERS The pharmaceutical company Merck is being accused of paying academics to put their names on research studies for the pain drug Vioxx. [C1.]
 HOLLYWOOD ACTIVIST Alan Rosenberg, the president of the Screen Actors Guild, says he is ready for a battle in the union's contract negotiations. [C1.]
 BIG PREY A e-mail scam that takes aim at chief executives, referred to as whaling, is raising alarms about the danger of the deceptive attacks. [C1.]
 OIL PRICES SURGE Oil prices hit another trading record, this time topping $113 a barrel. The tight market is helping to drive up the cost of gasoline. [C3.]
 MONEY MATTERS Two university economists argue that money does indeed tend to bring happiness, even if it does not guarantee it. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [C1.]
 DEFYING A SLOWDOWN Intel posted a first-quarter profit that matched Wall Street's expectations, a sign that the company's microprocessor business remained healthy. [C2.]
 COPYRIGHT LAWSUIT A group of textbook publishers is suing Georgia State University for putting packets of articles and book chapters online for students to download and read free. [C2.]
 TAX SCOPE LIMITED In a case that drew the attention of many states and corporations, the Supreme Court dealt a setback to Illinois in a tax dispute over the $1.5 billion sale of Lexis/Nexis. [C3.]
 INFLATION PRESSURE A Labor Department report on rising prices paid by American producers has put Federal Reserve officials in a tough spot. [C3.]
 TOXIC WARNING The health department of the Canadian government plans to label a common chemical used in plastic a dangerous substance. [C3.]
 REPORT CARD In an initial assessment of efforts to improve minority hiring practices at advertising agencies, Madison Avenue is showing improvement. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]
 GLOBAL INVESTOR The British energy group BP confirmed that an unnamed Chinese state investment fund had bought a 1 percent stake in the company. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RANKINGS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CYBERCRIME (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); INFLATION (71%); GASOLINE (71%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); LITIGATION (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); MICROPROCESSORS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (83%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); INTEL CORP (54%); BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (56%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



416 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: big tax breaks for businesses in housing bill

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate proclaimed a fierce bipartisan resolve two weeks ago to help American homeowners in danger of foreclosure. But while a bill that senators approved last week would take modest steps toward that goal, it would also provide billions of dollars in tax breaks -- for automakers, airlines, alternative energy producers and other struggling industries, as well as home builders. 
 The tax provisions of the Foreclosure Prevention Act, which consumer groups and labor leaders say amount to government handouts to big business, show how the credit crisis, while rattling the housing and financial markets, has created beneficiaries in the power corridors of Washington. 
 It also shows how legislation with a populist imperative offers a chance for lobbyists to press their clients' interests. 
 This has proved especially true on the housing legislation, which many lawmakers and lobbyists view as one of the last opportunities before Congress grinds to a halt amid election-year politics. 
 In the Senate bill, the nation's biggest home builders, some now on the verge of bankruptcy, won a provision that would let them claim millions in tax refunds by charging their current losses against the huge profits they made three or four years ago. Other struggling industries would benefit from this provision. 
 ''This is our biggest legislative effort since the Tax Reform Act of 1986,'' said Jerry M. Howard, chief executive of the National Association of Home Builders. Hundreds of the association's members flooded the district offices of representatives and senators while they were home for the spring recess last month. 
 Supporters of the bill, including Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, say it represents sound tax policy carefully focused to help stimulate the lagging economy. But the White House opposes the Senate bill, and Democratic leaders in the House not only have promised to provide more relief for individual homeowners, but have also dropped the corporate tax provisions from their version. 
 Downtrodden automakers -- Ford and General Motors -- were especially dogged in securing a tax break that would let them collect alternative minimum tax credits, also known as the A.M.T., that would otherwise be out of reach because they did not pay enough taxes in recent years to claim a rebate. 
 If the provision becomes law, it could mean checks up to $40 million for the car manufacturers, as long as the companies had made investments in plant or equipment in that amount.
 A Ford spokesman, Mike Moran, said he was aware that Ford would benefit from the tax credit in the bill passed by the Senate. But Mr. Moran said that the credit applied to a range of industries, not just automakers. A General Motors spokesman could not be reached.
 Domestic airlines and manufacturers other than automakers would be eligible to claim the A.M.T. break as well. One lobbyist said that the companies that had sought the tax breaks in meetings with lawmakers included Ford, General Motors, American Airlines, Northwest Airlines and Goodyear Tire and Rubber. 
 Companies could claim only one of the new tax breaks, which in all, are expected to cost $6 billion through 2018. The jockeying among industry groups, including Realtors, home builders and bankers, is certain to intensify in coming weeks as lawmakers move to reconcile the Senate bill with a more ambitious package of housing legislation now under way in the House. 
 Lawmakers on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee have omitted the corporate tax cuts from their version of the bill in favor of tax breaks for first-time home buyers and developers of low-income rental housing, and more aid for owners facing foreclosure. 
 Congressional Democrats are also hearing from consumer advocates and other groups who say that the Senate bill does little to help Americans in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. 
 ''The Senate legislation gave corporations and Wall Street billions in tax breaks,'' Terence M. O'Sullivan, the president of the Laborers International Union of North America, said at a news conference on Tuesday to denounce the bill. 
 ''Tax breaks for corporate home builders won't help stabilize the housing market, won't create jobs and won't prevent a single foreclosure,'' he continued. ''If anything, this multibillion-dollar windfall will make things worse.''
 Even Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the main author of the Senate bill, said the measure did not live up to its name and that he wanted changes. But other lawmakers, and the lobbyists who seek to influence them, also recognize a golden opportunity when they sense that the political winds virtually guarantee a bill's passage, and the housing crisis is just such a time. 
 In a sign of how such legislation allows lawmakers to advance many other goals, the Senate bill also includes tax provisions to encourage alternative energy production at a cost of roughly $6 billion over 10 years. 
 That provision was sponsored by Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada. A similar measure was dropped from a major energy bill last year and again from the economic stimulus bill in February. 
 But without quick action to extend expiring tax incentives, Ms. Cantwell said, many companies would simply drop projects. The housing bill was the easiest and fastest way to get things moving.
 Other industries facing financial difficulties, like retailers, may realize that the tax provisions in the bill offer help for them, too. 
 Over the next few weeks, industry groups that fought to secure tax provisions in the Senate bill are expected to argue that providing help for important industries offers the best chance of helping to reverse the economic downturn. 
 To press their case on Capitol Hill, 15 of the biggest residential construction companies, including KB Homes and Toll Brothers, formed a coalition and hired a lobbying firm, the C2 Group, apart from the larger National Association of Home Builders. 
 Tom Crawford, a founder of the C2 Group, met with staff members of the Senate Finance Committee, several of whose members had already begun expressing concern about the effect of the slowing economy on home builders and other businesses.
 The home builders were hardly the only industry that lawmakers heard from as the Senate housing legislation took shape and it became clear that the bill would provide more in the way of tax breaks aimed at stimulating the economy than direct assistance for distressed homeowners. 
 The cause of the automobile manufacturers was taken up by Senator George Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, and Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, who pushed to allow them access to up to $40 million each in alternative minimum tax credits. 
 Automakers and other companies that have lost money in recent years have accumulated billions of dollars in such credits, which are based on cumulative payments of the corporate alternative minimum tax. Companies, however, can claim a refund of such credits only in years when they pay regular corporate income taxes in amounts that exceed what they would owe under the alternative tax method. 
 The provision benefiting home builders and other struggling businesses would allow operating losses to be carried back over four years rather than the two years in current law. It is a strategy that Congress has used as a way of stimulating the economy in previous recessions, most recently in 2002 with the support of the Bush administration.
 But the White House opposed the idea when members of Congress proposed it as part of the economic stimulus package earlier this year. And some House Democrats suggest that home builders and their lobbyists will face an uphill battle in trying to keep the provision when the Senate bill is reconciled with a rival tax package that was approved last week by the House Ways and Means Committee. 
 These Democrats said that the Ways and Means chairman, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, and other leaders, including Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, would oppose the provision as benefiting builders at a time when Congress should be helping homeowners.
 ''This ship largely sailed when Congressional Republicans left it out of the stimulus package,'' said one House Democratic aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to interfere with negotiations.
 Unlike the Senate bill, which includes a tax credit of up to $7,500 for purchasers of foreclosed properties, Mr. Rangel's bill provides a credit for all first-time home buyers -- a move that drew strong support from the National Association of Realtors.
 ''This is a meaningful incentive that should draw into the market many purchasers who, to date, have remained on the sidelines,'' the president of the group, Richard F. Gaylord, wrote. ''We believe this credit can convert 'lookers' into first-time home buyers.''
 Other industry groups were also eager to sign on as supporters of Mr. Rangel's bill, even as many of them hope to push him to endorse a more expansive menu of tax breaks that will benefit them.
 Among them were the National Association of Home Builders, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the Council of Federal Home Loan Banks and the American Hospital Association.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, was the main author of the Senate bill meant to help homeowners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LOBBYING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (74%); AIRLINES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



417 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Restricts the Taxation of Income of Companies Based Out of State

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A unanimous Supreme Court decision on Tuesday limited the ability of states to tax the income that companies with out-of-state headquarters earn from their investments in businesses in their home state.
 The ruling vacated a decision of the Appellate Court of Illinois in a case that drew the attention of two dozen states and many multistate corporations. 
 The Illinois court had upheld the state's right to tax the $1 billion in capital gains earned by the Ohio-based MeadWestvaco Corporation, on the $1.5 billion sale in 1994 of an Illinois-based subsidiary, the Lexis/Nexis online research service. 
 MeadWestvaco, arguing that Illinois did not have the right to reach across state lines to tax the passive income from what amounted to an arm's-length investment, paid the $4 million tax bill under protest and sued for a refund.
 Although the amount of tax at issue was relatively small, given MeadWestvaco's huge gain from an initial investment of $6 million in the Data Corporation, the company that became Lexis/Nexis, the principle at stake was considered an important one.
 Over many years, the Supreme Court has developed rules to permit states to tax the portion of an out-of-state company's revenue that reflects its home-state operations, while at the same time shielding multistate companies from duplicate taxation. 
 At the heart of the doctrine is what the court calls the ''unitary business principle,'' which requires before a state can impose its tax, a finding that the company's in-state operations are part of a unified whole. The hallmarks of a unitary business, the court has held, are ''functional integration, centralized management and economies of scale.''
 The question for the court on Tuesday was whether an alternative route existed for states to capture revenue from businesses that were not unitary. The Supreme Court had raised this possibility with a passing reference in a 1992 opinion to tax liability generated by assets that served an ''operational rather than an investment function'' in a business. That ambiguous reference led some state courts to conclude that the justices had blessed an ''operational function'' test that paved the way to taxing multistate companies that did not qualify as unitary businesses.
 That was an erroneous extrapolation, the high court said in an opinion by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. The earlier references to ''operational function,'' he said, ''were not intended to modify the unitary business principle by adding a new ground'' for taxation. Regardless of the details of a parent company's relationship to its subsidiaries, the business had to be found unitary in the first place before a state could tax a part of the revenue.
 In its opinion, MeadWestvaco Corporation v. Illinois Department of Revenue, No. 06-1413, the court left inconclusive the application of this principle to the actual dispute at hand. The trial court in Chicago had concluded that while MeadWestvaco and Lexis/Nexis were not a unitary business, Lexis/Nexis served an ''operational purpose'' in the larger business and that Illinois could therefore tax the capital gain. 
 The Appellate Court of Illinois agreed with the ''operational purpose'' conclusion, and therefore expressed no opinion on whether the business was unitary.
 Vacating that decision, the Supreme Court said the state appeals court should now consider whether the business was unitary. Only if the answer was yes could the tax be upheld, the court said. While not reaching a conclusion on the unitary question, Justice Alito strongly suggested that the answer should be no. He pointed out that while MeadWestvaco is in the paper business, it did not require Lexis/Nexis to buy Mead paper, ''and indeed Lexis purchased most of its paper from other suppliers.'' Neither company even gave the other a discount on goods or services, Justice Alito said.
 Beth S. Brinkmann, who argued the appeal for MeadWestvaco, said in an interview that the decision provided important guidance to lower courts by removing a source of confusion. At the most basic level, what businesses need is predictability,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%)

COMPANY: MEADWESTVACO CORP (93%); LEXISNEXIS GROUP (92%)

TICKER: MWV (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (93%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (93%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (93%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (92%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



418 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Profits at Regional Banks Bolster Shares

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks gained on Tuesday as record oil prices lifted energy shares and stronger-than-expected quarterly results at several regional banks helped shares of financial companies.
 The regional banks, including U.S. Bancorp and Regions Financial, expressed confidence they could weather credit losses from the housing slump. The S.& P. financial index ended up 1.1 percent.
 The May contract for crude oil jumped to $113.79 a barrel on supply issues, rising demand in China and the persistent weakness of the dollar. Exxon Mobil gained 1.2 percent, to $90.80. 
 The market might have rung up bigger gains if not for a warning from the State Street Corporation that it faced billions of dollars of unrealized losses on some investments. Its shares fell 9.9 percent, to $69.23.
 ''Sentiment has been pretty negative, but it has improved a bit today as you had a few decent earnings reports this morning,'' said Michael James, senior trader at a regional investment bank, Wedbush Morgan, in Los Angeles. ''The financials are a bit oversold so we're seeing a bounce there, and there's also an expectation JPMorgan's earnings will be good tomorrow.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 60.41 points, or 0.49 percent, to 12,362.47. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.11 points, or 0.46 percent, to 1,334.43. The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.22 points, or 0.45 percent, to 2,286.04.
 First-quarter profit exceeded forecasts at U.S. Bancorp, Regions Financial, M&T Bank and Marshall & Ilsley. U.S. Bancorp operates mainly west of the Mississippi River, Regions in the Southeast, M&T in mid-Atlantic states, and Marshall & Ilsley in Wisconsin and several other states.
 The results at the regional banks contrasted with the unexpected loss posted Monday by Wachovia, the nation's fourth-largest bank.
 Shares of Regions Financial jumped 8.4 percent, to $20.12; M&T Bank climbed 6.3 percent, to $85.86; U.S. Bancorp rose 1.7 percent, to $32.21; and Marshall & Ilsley added 1.5 percent, to $21.94.
 Shares of JPMorgan Chase, which reports earnings on Wednesday, advanced 1.5 percent, to $42.12.
 Keeping gains in check, though, was Northrop Grumman, which was among the top drags on the S.& P. 500. Shares of Northrop Grumman fell 6.9 percent, to $71.57, after the military contractor said it expected to take a first-quarter pretax charge because of delays related to quality concerns in its amphibious assault-ship program.
 Economic data earlier in the day painted a mixed picture.
 The New York Federal Reserve Bank's Empire State manufacturing index showed some stabilization in April after tumbling to a record low in March, according to an index compiled by the New York Fed.
 The Labor Department's overall Producer Price Index jumped 1.1 percent in March, or nearly twice the gain of 0.6 percent that economists had expected. But the core index, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.2 percent last month, in line with the expectations of economists.
 Interest rates were higher, with the 10-year Treasury note at 3.60 percent, up from 3.51 percent late Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 24/32, to 99 5/32. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week and six-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%)

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (85%); STATE STREET CORP (70%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (51%)

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); STT (NYSE) (70%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); NOC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (51%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



419 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Madison Ave. Charts Some Progress in Meeting Diversity Hiring Goals

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AN initial report card on efforts to diversify the long-homogeneous upper ranks of Madison Avenue shows some improvement, but much more left to be done.
 The 15 agencies that agreed to be monitored for three years on their minority hiring practices met 24 of the 30 goals they set for themselves in 2007, according to a summary provided on Tuesday by the New York City Human Rights Commission.
 Each agency set two goals: one for hiring managers and one for hiring professionals like copywriters. The goals were expressed in terms of percentages of new hires who were black, Hispanic or Asian-American.
 According to the summary, the 15 agencies had hoped that 18 percent of the total managerial and professional employees they hired last year would be minorities, and the actual percentage was higher, at 25 percent. The goal for 2008 for both categories combined is 19 percent. 
 Only one agency, Merkley & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, missed both its goals, while four others -- three of them also owned by Omnicom -- missed one goal each. Omnicom executives said that in some cases, the goals were missed because there were no hires, period, in the categories in question.
 Some agencies met their goals exactly. For instance, the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas, agreed that 30 percent of the managers and professionals to be hired in 2007 would be minorities, and that is what the results showed took place. In other instances, agencies exceeded their goals -- sometimes by small margins, sometimes by large ones.
 For example, Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, pledged that 18 percent of the managers and 30 percent of the professionals it would hire last year would be minorities. The figures reported on Tuesday were 27 percent and 46 percent, respectively.
 ''Going into this, we thought it was important to set high goals for Y&R and to support those goals with a clear set of initiatives,'' said Hamish McLennan, chief executive at Y&R.
 ''We are going to raise the bar this year,'' he added, with the hiring goals for 2008 being set higher than last year.
 The commission's report was the first of three that it plans to issue as part of an inquiry, dating to 2004, into the hiring practices of some of the best-known agencies in the world.
 In addition to the four agencies owned by Omnicom, which is the largest holding company by revenue, four are owned by the second largest, the WPP Group. Three agencies are part of the No. 3 holding company, the Interpublic Group of Companies, while two are owned by Havas and two by the Publicis Groupe.
 The 15 agencies accepted the reporting process as part of a binding agreement reached in September 2006 with 16 of them. They also agreed they could be punished with fines for failing to achieve more diversity in the hiring of senior employees. (The discrepancy in the numbers is explained by another fact of life on Madison Avenue: a merger of two agencies.)
 The way the industry fills its ranks has been scrutinized for years because of the tangible and symbolic roles it plays in the economic life of New York. There are more than 40,000 advertising jobs in the city, but beyond that figure is the crucial part the industry plays in the marketing food chain, extending from the advertisers to the media to the ultimate goal, the consumers.
 The industry's inability to find and keep talented minority employees for jobs in the upper echelons has been at odds with the growing need of advertisers -- the agencies' clients -- to meet the demands of an increasingly diverse consumer marketplace.
 ''It takes a long time to do this sort of thing,'' said Cliff Mulqueen, deputy commissioner and general counsel of the commission, referring to attempts to increase the number of minority employees in the professional and managerial ranks. ''It's not the sort of thing you do overnight,'' Mr. Mulqueen said. ''We're optimistic that the agencies are doing the right thing.''
 Some agencies gave clear numerical proof of their efforts. At two other WPP agencies -- G2 Direct and Digital and G2 Interactive, both part of the Grey Group division -- both sets of goals were exceeded, particularly in the hiring of professionals.
 Owen J. Dougherty, executive vice president at Grey Group, outlined a long list of ''very concrete'' steps taken last year to ''recruit mid- and senior-level diversity candidates.'' Some of those measures, like participating in job fairs, were taken in conjunction with the industry trade organization, the American Association of Advertising Agencies.
 The agencies owned by the Interpublic Group that were party to the settlement -- Avrett Free Ginsberg, Draft FCB and Gotham -- all surpassed their goals for 2007. (Initially, Draft and Foote Cone & Belding were involved separately; Interpublic merged them to form Draft FCB.)
 ''While last year's results are encouraging, we still have lots of work ahead of us,'' said Philippe Krakowsky, executive vice president at Interpublic.
 One Publicis agency, Saatchi & Saatchi, exceeded both its goals, while the other, the Kaplan Thaler Group, surpassed its goal for professional hires (18 percent versus 15 percent) but fell short of its goal for managerial hires (2 percent versus 13 percent).
 Kaplan Thaler ''is pleased about the progress we have made thus far and the fact that in some areas, we have exceeded our goals,'' said Tricia Kenney, a spokeswoman. ''We remain steadfastly committed to creating the most diverse organization possible.''
 The Omnicom agencies being tracked, in addition to Merkley & Partners, are BBDO Worldwide, DDB Worldwide and PHD. Their shortfalls are unusual because Omnicom agreed in 2006 twice to improve its minority hiring. One agreement was with the commission. Under the other, signed with the New York City Council, Omnicom agreed to spend more than $2 million on other efforts to encourage diversity in the work forces of its agencies.
 Under the terms of the deal with the commission, the agencies said they would hire outside consultants if they did not meet their goals. Omnicom has hired one for its four agencies: the corporate diversity counseling group at the Washington office of Davis Wright Tremaine. ''If you know anything about diversity, one of the things you know is that it's not a sprint; it's a marathon,'' said Weldon Latham, chairman at the counseling group.
 ''The companies that are successful are the companies that put together a long-term approach,'' he added, to become ''a positive representation of their customers.'' 
 Asked what happened at the Omnicom agencies last year, Mr. Latham answered plainly. ''They set aggressive goals and they didn't make them,'' he said, adding that the idea would be to work hard to ''be more effective in reaching the goals.''
 Mr. Latham and a colleague, Michael Hatcher, took issue with an aspect of the reporting process as it affected two Omnicom agencies. They said the percentage of minority management hires at DDB and Merkley was zero, compared with goals of 10 percent at both agencies, because those agencies made no management hires last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); WPP PLC (73%); HAVAS SA (54%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (83%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (73%); WPP (LSE) (73%); HAV (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (73%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (73%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



420 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Eggheads And Cheese Balls

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
 I'm not bitter.
 I'm not writing this just because I grew up in a house with a gun, a strong Catholic faith, an immigrant father, brothers with anti-illegal immigrant sentiments and a passion for bowling. (My bowling trophy was one of my most cherished possessions.)
 My family morphed from Kennedy Democrats into Reagan Republicans not because they were angry, but because they felt more comfortable with conservative values. Members of my clan sometimes were overly cloistered. But they weren't bitter; they were bonding. 
 They went to church every Sunday because it was part of their identity, not because they needed a security blanket.
 Behind closed doors in San Francisco, elitism's epicenter, Barack Obama showed his elitism, attributing the emotional, spiritual and cultural values of working-class, ''lunch pail'' Pennsylvanians to economic woes. 
 The last few weeks have not been kind to Hillary, but the endless endgame has not been kind to the Wonder Boy either. Obama comes across less like a candidate in Pennsylvania than an anthropologist in Borneo.
 His mother got her Ph.D. in anthropology, studying the culture of Indonesia. And as Obama has courted white, blue-collar voters in ''Deer Hunter'' and ''Rocky'' country, he has often appeared to be observing the odd habits of the colorful locals, resisting as the natives try to fatten him up like a foie gras goose, sampling Pennsylvania beer in a sports bar with his tie tight, awkwardly accepting bowling shoes as a gift from Bob Casey, examining the cheese and salami at the Italian Market here as intriguing ethnic artifacts, purchasing Utz Cheese Balls at a ShopRite in East Norriton and quizzing the women working in a chocolate factory about whether they could possibly really like the sugary doodads.
 He hasn't pulled a John Kerry and asked for a Philly cheese steak with Swiss yet, but he has maintained a regal ''What do the simple folk do to help them escape when they're blue?'' bearing, unable to even feign Main Street cred. But Hillary did when she belted down a shot of Crown Royal whiskey with gusto at Bronko's in Crown Point, Ind.
 Just as he couldn't knock down the bowling pins, he can't knock down Annie Oakley or ''the girl in the race,'' as her husband called her Tuesday -- the self-styled blue-collar heroine who reluctantly revealed a $100 million fortune partially built on Bill's shady connections.
 Even when Hillary's campaign collapsed around her and her husband managed to revive the bullets over Bosnia, Obama has still not been able to marshal a knockout blow -- or even come up with a knockout economic speech that could expand his base of support.
 Even as Hillary grows weaker, her reputation for ferocity grows stronger. A young woman in the audience at a taping of ''The Colbert Report'' at Penn Tuesday night asked Stephen Colbert during a warm-up: ''Are you more afraid of bears or Hillary Clinton?''
 Even though Democratic elders worry that the two candidates will terminally bloody each other, they each seem to be lighting their own autos-da-fe. 
 At match points, when Hillary fights like a cornered raccoon, Obama retreats into law professor mode. The elitism that Americans dislike is not about family money or connections -- J.F.K. and W. never would have been elected without them. In the screwball movie genre that started during the last Depression, there was a great tradition of the millionaire who was cool enough to relate to the common man -- like Cary Grant's C.K. Dexter Haven in ''The Philadelphia Story.''
 What turns off voters is the detached egghead quality that they tend to equate with a wimpiness, wordiness and a lack of action -- the same quality that got the professorial and superior Adlai Stevenson mocked by critics as Adelaide. The new attack line for Obama rivals is that he's gone from J.F.K. to Dukakis. (Just as Dukakis chatted about Belgian endive, Obama chatted about Whole Foods arugula in Iowa.)
 Obama did not grow up in cosseted circumstances. ''Now when is the last time you've seen a president of the United States who just paid off his loan debt?'' Michelle Obama asked Tuesday at Haverford College, referring to Barack's student loans while speaking in the shadow of the mansions depicted in ''The Philadelphia Story.''
 But his exclusive Hawaiian prep school and years in the Ivy League made him a charter member of the elite, along with the academic experts he loves to have in the room. As Colbert pointed out, the other wonky Ivy League lawyer in the primary just knows how to condescend better. 
 Michelle did her best on ''The Colbert Report'' Tuesday to shoo away the aroma of elitism.
 Growing up, she said: ''We had four spoons. And then my father got a raise at the plant and we got five spoons.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Maureen Dowd's column last Wednesday incorrectly reported that Barack Obama accepted bowling shoes as a gift from Bob Casey. Mr. Obama gave bowling shoes to Mr. Casey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BOB CASEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%); BORNEO (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



421 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Panel's Bipartisan View: F.D.A. Is Underfinanced

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration needs far more money than the White House has proposed for next year, senators of both parties said Tuesday.
 ''To us, it's clear that they're seriously underfunded,'' Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, said after a hearing of the Appropriations subcommittee, headed by Mr. Kohl, that oversees the agency's spending.
 The subcommittee's ranking minority member, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, agreed with Mr. Kohl and tried at the hearing to get the food and drug commissioner, Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, to say how much more the agency could use wisely. 
 If lawmakers decide that the White House ''was wrong and you needed to add another $100 million, just to pull a number completely out of the air, could you handle that?'' Mr. Bennett asked.
 Dr. von Eschenbach said he would ''welcome an opportunity to present a scenario of portfolio options'' for levels of financing.
 The Senate passed a budget resolution last month that would make the F.D.A.'s allocated budget -- that part of its spending that comes from taxpayer revenue, as opposed to user fees paid by drug and medical device manufacturers -- $375 million greater in 2009 than this year. That would be a 20 percent increase, and Dr. von Eschenbach said he did not believe that the agency could absorb so large an addition in one year. 
 A report last year by a panel of outside advisers to the agency said American lives were in danger because the F.D.A. did not have the money, the staff or the scientific expertise to protect them. And in a speech last month, Dr. von Eschenbach acknowledged that the F.D.A. ''may fail in its mission to protect and promote the health of every American'' and that ''peril exists.''
 But he was far less pessimistic in his testimony on Tuesday.
 ''I believe we have been eminently successful up to this period of time,'' Dr. von Eschenbach said. ''We are the world's gold standard.
 ''But if we want to continue that level of excellence,'' he added, ''we must change.''
 The Bush administration has proposed increasing the agency's allocated budget next year by 3 percent, to some $1.8 billion, not enough to pay even for increased costs. Dr. von Eschenbach spoke Tuesday about plans to hire up to 700 new employees for the F.D.A. staff, but he acknowledged that the agency would not have the money to do any hiring next year if the president's budget was adopted without changes by Congress.
 ''We are on a trajectory to increased staff,'' he said. ''We just have to push it off a little.''
 Dr. von Eschenbach said the agency planned to open three new offices this year in the Chinese cities of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. The combined staff there is to total 13 people, 5 of them to be hired locally.
 Addressing the controversy over the blood thinner heparin, the commissioner said in his testimony that contamination in samples whose active ingredient had been imported from China was ''apparently, we suspect, done by virtue of economic fraud,'' to enhance profit. This was the first time anyone at the F.D.A. had confirmed that the agency suspected that the drug's contamination had been deliberate.
 But after the hearing, Dr. von Eschenbach said that he ''probably went too far'' in his testimony and that the agency did not have proof that the contamination had occurred as a result of fraud.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Robert F. Bennett 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

PERSON: ANDREW VON ESCHENBACH (89%); ROBERT BENNETT (88%); HERB KOHL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



422 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CANDIDATE SPOUSES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Taking Aim at Elitism

BYLINE: By JILL ABRAMSON

 BODY:
Michelle Obama, appearing at Haverford College in Pennsylvania, gave a strong response on Tuesday to criticism that her husband's remarks at a San Francisco fund-raiser were elitist. 
 ''There's a lot of people talking about elitism and all of that,'' Ms. Obama said at a gathering of students and townspeople, alluding to responses to her husband's remarks. ''Yeah, I went to Princeton and Harvard, but the lens through which I see the world is the lens that I grew up with. I am the product of a working-class upbringing. I grew up on the South Side of Chicago in a working-class community.''
 Then, referring to her husband's student loans, she added sarcastically: ''Now when is the last time you've seen a president of the United States who just paid off his loan debt? But, again, maybe I'm out of touch.''
 Rebutting critics who called her husband's remarks about economic bitterness out of touch, Mrs. Obama asked the crowd: ''Am I telling you something that you don't know? Am I in touch?''
 She also emphasized that her husband, raised by a young single mother, ''didn't grow up with a silver spoon in his mouth.''
 Mrs. Obama was not the only spouse of a candidate emphasizing humble roots. Speaking at a union hall in Coatesville, Pa., earlier Tuesday, Bill Clinton said he and his wife were now in the top one-tenth of 1 percent of taxpayers. Then, so as not to appear out of touch, Mr. Clinton quickly added that when he and Hillary Rodham Clinton first entered the White House, they were the poorest first family in 100 years. JILL ABRAMSON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (51%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



423 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Winners Hit a New Jackpot: Billion-Dollar Paydays

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Hedge fund managers, those masters of a secretive, sometimes volatile financial universe, are making money on a scale that once seemed unimaginable, even in Wall Street's rarefied realms. 
 One manager, John Paulson, made $3.7 billion last year. He reaped that bounty, probably the richest in Wall Street history, by betting against certain mortgages and complex financial products that held them.
 Mr. Paulson, the founder of Paulson & Company, was not the only big winner. The hedge fund managers James H. Simons and George Soros each earned almost $3 billion last year, according to an annual ranking of top hedge fund earners by Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine, which comes out Wednesday.
 Hedge fund managers have redefined notions of wealth in recent years. And the richest among them are redefining those notions once again. 
 Their unprecedented and growing affluence underscores the gaping inequality between the millions of Americans facing stagnating wages and rising home foreclosures and an agile financial elite that seems to thrive in good times and bad. Such profits may also prompt more calls for regulation of the industry.
 Even on Wall Street, where money is the ultimate measure of success, the size of the winnings makes some uneasy. ''There is nothing wrong with it -- it's not illegal,'' said William H. Gross, the chief investment officer of the bond fund Pimco. ''But it's ugly.'' 
 The richest hedge fund managers keep getting richer -- fast. To make it into the top 25 of Alpha's list, the industry standard for hedge fund pay, a manager needed to earn at least $360 million last year, more than 18 times the amount in 2002. The median American family, by contrast, earned $60,500 last year.
 Combined, the top 50 hedge fund managers last year earned $29 billion. That figure represents the managers' own pay and excludes the compensation of their employees. Five of the top 10, including Mr. Simons and Mr. Soros, were also at the top of the list for 2006. To compile its ranking, Alpha examined the funds' returns and the fees that they charge investors, and then calculated the managers' pay. 
 Top hedge fund managers made money in many ways last year, from investing in overseas stock markets to betting that prices of commodities like oil, wheat and copper would rise. Some, like Mr. Paulson, profited handsomely from the turmoil in the mortgage market ripping through the economy. 
 As early as 2005, Mr. Paulson began betting that complex mortgage investments known as collateralized debt obligations would decline in value, much as Wall Street traders bet that shares will drop in price. In that case, known as shorting, they borrow shares and sell them, wait for the price to fall, buy the shares back at a lower price and return them, pocketing the profit. 
 Then, over the next two years, Mr. Paulson established two funds to focus on the credit markets. One of those funds returned 590 percent last year, and the other handed back 353 percent, according to Alpha. By the end of 2007, Mr. Paulson sat atop $28 billion in assets, up from $6 billion 12 months earlier.
 Mr. Soros, one of the world's most successful speculators and richest men, leapt out of retirement last summer as the market turmoil spread -- and he won big. He made $2.9 billion for the year, when his flagship Quantum fund returned almost 32 percent, according to Alpha. Mr. Simon, a mathematician and former Defense Department code breaker who uses complex computer models to trade, earned $2.8 billion. His flagship Medallion fund returned 73 percent.
 Like Mr. Paulson, Philip Falcone, who founded Harbinger Partners with $25 million in June 2001, cast a winning bet against the mortgage market. He pulled in returns of 117 percent after fees in 2007 and made $1.7 billion. The trade thrust him from relative obscurity to hedge fund heavyweight: he now manages $18 billion. Harbinger recently won agreement from The New York Times Company to add two members to its board. 
 Hedge fund managers share their success with their investors, which include wealthy individuals, pension funds and university endowments. They typically charge annual fees equal to 2 percent of their assets under management, and take a 20 percent cut of any profits. 
 With a combined $2 trillion under management, the hedge fund industry is coming off its richest year ever -- a feat all the more remarkable given the billions of dollars of losses suffered by major Wall Street banks. 
 In recent months, however, scores of hedge funds have quietly died or spectacularly imploded, wracked by bad investments, excess borrowing or leverage, and client redemptions -- or a combination of those events. 
 ''To some degree it's a very gigantic version of Las Vegas,'' said Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
 As Alpha's list shows, managers who reap big gains one year can lose the next. 
 Edward Lampert, the founder of ESL Investments and a member of the 2007 Alpha list, was absent this year. His fund fell 27 percent last year, according to Alpha. About 60 percent of ESL's equity portfolio is invested in Sears, whose shares plunged 40 percent last year. ESL is also a major holder of Citigroup, whose abysmal performance matched that of Sears.
 A manager who ranked high in the 2007 list and fell off in 2008 was James Pallotta of the Tudor Investment Corporation, who was 17th last year and earned $300 million. Mr. Pallotta's $5.7 billion Raptor Global Fund fell almost 8 percent last year, according to Alpha. 
 A few who did not make the cut still made buckets of money. Bruce Kovner of Caxton Associates and Barry Rosenstein at Jana Partners didn't make the top 50. But Mr. Kovner earned $100 million, and Mr. Rothstein earned $170 million, according to Alpha. Spokesmen for the hedge fund managers either declined to comment on Tuesday or could not be reached.
 Since 1913, the United States witnessed only one other year of such unequal wealth distribution -- 1928, the year before the stock market crashed, according to Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. Such inequality is likely to impede an economic recovery, he said.
 ''For a recovery to be robust and sustainable you can't just have consumer demand at Nordstrom,'' he said. ''You need it at the little shop on the corner, too.'' 
 Despite the explosive growth of the industry -- about 10,000 hedge funds operate worldwide -- it is relatively lightly regulated. On Tuesday, two panels appointed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. advised hedge funds to adopt guidelines to increase disclosure and risk management.
 And Mr. Gross, the fund manager, warned that the widening divide among the richest and everyone else is cause for worry. 
 ''Like at the end of the Gilded Age and the Roaring Twenties, we are going the other way,'' Mr. Gross said. ''We are clearly in a period of excess, and we have to swing back to the middle or the center cannot hold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Paulson of Paulson & Company earned $3.7 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS)
James H. Simons, once a code breaker, made $2.8 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 George Soros earned $2.9 billion for the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RANKINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (79%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BOND FUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (79%); BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



424 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Guild Chief For Actors Is No Pacifist

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
To understand why Hollywood is taking the threat of a strike by the Screen Actors Guild seriously, look no further than Alan Rosenberg's actions during a solidarity march last November with striking screenwriters.
 Mr. Rosenberg, the president of the 120,000-member actors' union, made Patric M. Verrone, his counterpart at the West Coast writers' guild, look like a pacifist during the march down Hollywood Boulevard. While Mr. Verrone mostly smiled and waved, Mr. Rosenberg screamed, ''On strike! Shut 'em down! Hollywood's a union town.'' 
 On Tuesday, as his turn at the bargaining table arrived, Mr. Rosenberg said he remained angry enough over performer compensation levels to bring the entertainment industry to a halt again. 
 ''Aside from my family, I have two great loves in my life: acting and the fight for social justice,'' he said. ''Oh yes, we are very serious.''
 Mr. Rosenberg, 56, and his negotiating team presented proposals for a new contract to the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, the organization that represents the interests of movie studios and networks. Among the gains SAG is seeking are increased payments for the distribution of television shows and movies on the Web and a bigger share of DVD revenue. The guild also wants actors to get a cut of product placement fees that come when the networks and studios weave advertising into their entertainments. The current three-year contract expires on June 30. Similar requests by the Writers Guild of America last fall -- in particular the DVD demand -- were greeted so coldly that screenwriters walked off their jobs. The strike shut down most television production, disrupted preparations for a handful of big-budget movies and caused $3.2 billion in damage to the Los Angeles economy, according to the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. 
 A spokesman for the producers' alliance declined to comment Tuesday. Both sides declined to specify proposals. 
 Mr. Rosenberg, who is known for roles in ''L.A. Law'' and ''Cybill,'' has been preparing for his role as the center of the latest Hollywood labor skirmish for longer than many people in the entertainment business realize.
 The son of a swing-era musician, Mr. Rosenberg was a war protester in the 1960s, at one point joining the Black Panthers. He said he was spurred to become involved in organized labor in Hollywood after President Ronald Reagan's firing of striking air traffic controllers in 1981. He first ran for a position on SAG's national board earlier this decade, and was elected president of the guild in 2005, narrowly defeating a more moderate candidate, the actress Morgan Fairchild.
 Some in Hollywood say Mr. Rosenberg's move into the role of confrontational guild leader comes less from politics than from personal psychology. His older brother, Mark Rosenberg, was a noted civil rights activist who became president of Warner Brothers before dying of heart failure in 1992 at the age of 44. Leading SAG in its battle to secure a ground-breaking labor contract allows Mr. Rosenberg to continue his brother's work.
 ''There's no doubt that he cared deeply about content creators, and that I share that with him,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. While not rich by Hollywood standards, Mr. Rosenberg is not exactly what most people consider middle class, either. He is married to Marg Helgenberger, a millionaire because of her lead role on the CBS drama ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.''
 As negotiations get under way, Mr. Rosenberg and his lieutenants are facing hurdles.
 The producers' alliance has made it clear that it intends to use the newly negotiated contracts with writers and directors as a blueprint for the actors, while Mr. Rosenberg said he found both those pacts unsatisfactory. The producers also arrive on this battlefield with tested artillery, perhaps the most important being an aggressive public relations apparatus that has tried to learn from its missteps during the writers' strike.
 SAG is waging its campaign as the industry is still recovering from the writers' strike. 
 ''The wounds on both sides are still very raw,'' said Daniel H. Black of the Greenberg Traurig law firm, which has a large entertainment practice. ''There's no way that doesn't factor in here.''
 Mr. Rosenberg's union also has a history of infighting that has derailed its plans in the past. Unlike traditional labor unions, where workers are generally bound by economics, there are groups within SAG that have little in common with each other.
 According to some estimates, two-thirds of the union's members earn less than $1,000 a year acting. On the other extreme are stars who routinely take home $20 million a movie in salary, plus millions more in perks. 
 Some top-earning actors, among them George Clooney and Sally Field, have already pressured Mr. Rosenberg to walk a less-militant line. 
 SAG has also clashed with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, which mostly represents a small number of television actors. The unions have typically negotiated contracts together, but the smaller organization this time has decided to go it alone, for various reasons. Aftra, which rejected a last-minute appeal from SAG on Monday to join it at the bargaining table, is set to begin negotiations with the studios on April 28.
 Nonetheless, one important bit of timing is breaking SAG's way. During the last strike, the six media conglomerates that control the entertainment business were able to convince Wall Street that the picketing was immaterial to their bottom lines. Many held up positive earnings reports during the walkout as evidence.
 But some damage is expected to pop up over the next month, when the media giants release their quarterly earnings. And SAG got a public relations gem handed to it last week from CBS: the company reported that it rewarded its chief executive, Leslie Moonves, with a $36.8 million paycheck in 2007, up from $28.6 million in 2006.
 Disclosures like that are hard to swallow for SAG, which has been repeatedly told by the entertainment conglomerates that they cannot afford heftier payments for talent. ''This is not about wealthy actors trying to get wealthier,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''All we want is to be compensated fairly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I have two great loves in my life: acting and the fight for social justice,'' said Alan Rosenberg, Screen Actors Guild chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Rosenberg as Cybill Shepherd's ex-husband in ''Cybill.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BYRON J. COHEN/CBS) (pg.C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (93%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); STRIKES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (67%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (91%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



425 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: What's On Tonight

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (13, 49) ILLICIT: THE DARK TRADE It's a new kind of crime wave: illicit trade, whether in counterfeit Prada bags, airplane parts, weapons-grade uranium or even humans. And the global value is estimated to be as much as $3 trillion a year. Based on the book ''Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers and Copycats Are Hijacking the Global Economy'' by Moises Naim, this National Geographic documentary, above, looks at the manufacture and sale of goods ranging from fake purses to counterfeit pharmaceuticals, and supports Mr. Naim's thesis that illicit trade could be as big a threat as, if not bigger than, terrorism. 
 8 P.M. (ABC) PRESIDENTIAL DEBATESenators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama discuss the issues at the National Constitutional Center in Philadelphia; Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos moderate.
 8 P.M. (MyNetwork TV) UNDER ONE ROOF He has tasted love. Now Flavor Flav is officially trying his hand at acting. In this new sitcom he plays Calvester, an ex-con who moves into the Beverly Hills mansion owned by his brother, Winston (Kelly Perine), a real-estate mogul. Calvester grew up lusting after babes and N.B.A. fame; Winston's idols were Donald Trump and Bryant Gumbel. Then Winston wrecked his car after some heavy-duty carousing, and Calvester volunteered to take the rap to save his brother's Ivy League future. Now someone owes somebody a huge debt.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) THE TRUTH ABOUT CANCER In this third installment in the ''Take One Step'' health campaign, Linda Garmon tells the story of her husband's battle with cancer by returning to the hospitals where he was treated to look at the doctors and researchers searching for a cure. Immediately after the broadcast, ''Take One Step: A Conversation About Cancer With Linda Ellerbee'' delves into prevention and screenings, as well as what to expect after a diagnosis and how to live with the disease.
 10 P.M. (ABC) MEN IN TREES Marin (Anne Heche) meets Julia (Kelli Williams), Jack's friend from the ship. Jack (James Tupper) just got an offer to be a visiting professor at an Anchorage college. Turns out that Julia teaches there too.
 10 P.M. (MTV) THE REAL WORLD Hooray for Hollywood: this reality series celebrates its 20th season with a foray into Tinseltown, where the roommates (including one chosen by viewers) will pursue fame and fortune and do just about anything -- and we do mean anything -- to catch a big break.
 10 P.M. (TV Land) THE BIG 4-0 So much for growing old gracefully. This new series follows a group of soon-to-be midlifers as they celebrate by jumping out of planes, screeching around the track at Daytona and living their childhood dreams. 
 10:30 P.M. (Comedy Central) LEWIS BLACK'S ROOT OF ALL EVIL Kathleen Madigan and Greg Giraldo debate which is worse: Kim Jong-Il or Tila Tequila. It's a tough call. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CANCER (89%); HIJACKING (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); TERRORISM (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



426 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: McCain Outlines Broad Proposals For U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: VILLANOVA, Pa. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain offered the broadest look yet at his economic policies in a speech on Tuesday in Pittsburgh, outlining a series of tax reductions and backing away from his pledge to balance the budget by the end of his first term. 
 The speech, delivered on the deadline for filing taxes, afforded the clearest view to date of what McCainomics might look like. There was a dash of populism, as Mr. McCain criticized executive pay and corporate wrongdoing. There was a strong supply-side bent, with Mr. McCain focusing on cutting corporate taxes and making permanent the Bush tax cuts that he once opposed. And there was a decidedly less hawkish note on deficits, as Mr. McCain called for spending cuts but did not mention balancing the federal budget.
 With the address, Mr. McCain labored to overcome the impression that he does not understand the economy well, and the idea being pushed by his Democratic rivals that he does not comprehend the economic pain felt by many Americans. 
 Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, spoke at length about those economic hardships and suggested he might well break with the economic policies of President Bush and former President Ronald Reagan. ''It will not be enough to simply dust off the economic policies of four, eight or 28 years ago,'' he said in the speech, at Carnegie Mellon University. ''We have our own work to do.''
 But a major component of his economic plan -- like those of Presidents Bush and Reagan -- centered on tax cuts. Besides making the Bush income tax cuts permanent and reducing corporate taxes to 25 percent from 35 percent, Mr. McCain called for eliminating the alternative minimum tax and doubling the value of exemptions for dependents to $7,000 from $3,500, among other recommendations. He also proposed giving taxpayers the option of filing a simpler, shorter tax form each year than is available now.
 Mr. McCain even called for cutting one tax before the Republican National Convention, let alone the election: he urged Congress to suspend the 18.4-cent-a-gallon federal gas tax from this Memorial Day until Labor Day. He said doing so would provide ''an immediate economic stimulus,'' but such plans have gained little traction recently in Congress, and some environmentalists fear such a cut would encourage more people to use their cars at a time when Mr. McCain has made combating global warming a central theme of his campaign.
 The McCain campaign put the cost of his tax cuts at roughly $200 billion a year, but its estimate did not include the cost of making the Bush tax cuts permanent, which would more than double that figure. 
 The campaign said it would offset the lost $200 billion by eliminating from the federal budget earmarked pork-barrel projects; putting a one-year freeze on discretionary spending in most federal agencies, later eliminating wasteful programs; broadening the tax base by eliminating loopholes; and spurring economic growth. But its estimate of how much could be saved with such measures was far higher than those of some other independent budget analysts. 
 Mr. McCain's Democratic rivals mocked the proposals, with the campaign of Senator Barack Obama saying the plans represented a continuation of failed Bush policies, and aides to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton saying they would benefit corporations that had helped cause the nation's current economic woes.
 Mr. McCain -- who said in February in Wisconsin that he would balance the budget by the end of his first term as president -- seemed to reconsider that on Tuesday, saying at a news conference later in Villanova that ''economic conditions are reversed'' and that he would have a balanced budget within eight years. His economic aides said they could pay for all the tax cuts with spending cuts.
 The Democratic National Committee did its own analysis, which it said suggested that Mr. McCain's proposed tax cuts, coupled with the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that he wants to continue, would put the budget trillions of dollars into the red. 
 In sum, Mr. McCain cast himself as someone who adheres to the general tax-cutting principles of the Republican Party, in a business-friendly way, while at the same time battling special interests and corporate wrongdoing, calling for unspecified ''smarter regulation'' of the financial markets and companies. 
 And he called for smaller government, while conceding that government job training programs were vital to dealing with the human cost of an economy undergoing rapid changes, and reiterating his new call -- after initially signaling his opposition to broad federal intervention in the housing crisis -- for having the government help refinance and guarantee some mortgages.
 Dipping into a contentious issue that has stirred up the Democratic Party, Mr. McCain made clear his unequivocal support for free trade even as Senators Obama and Clinton have been speaking about its downsides. Mr. McCain argued that the benefits of opening new markets outweighed the costs of losing some manufacturing jobs. 
 ''That is why I object when Senators Obama and Clinton and others preach the false virtues of economic isolationism,'' Mr. McCain said in the speech. ''Senator Obama recently suggested that Americans are protectionist because they are bitter about being left behind in the global economy. Well, what's his excuse for embracing the false promises of protectionism?''
 Mr. McCain painted his Democratic rivals, who want to roll back some of the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy to pay for their health care plans, as tax raisers. ''They're going to raise your taxes by thousands of dollars per year, and they have the audacity to hope you don't mind,'' he said, in an allusion to the title of one of Mr. Obama's books, ''The Audacity of Hope.''
 Mr. Obama's spokesman, Bill Burton, responded: ''Senator McCain's economic plan offers no change from George Bush's failed policies by going full speed ahead with fiscally irresponsible tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that John McCain himself once said offended his conscience. He also proposes a gift basket of new tax cuts for corporate America at a time when some C.E.O.'s are making more in a day than some workers make in a year. John McCain's plan is one that could have been written by the corporate lobbyists who run his campaign, and probably was.''
 Mrs. Clinton's policy director, Neera Tanden, said Mr. McCain's tax cuts would most benefit corporations, while Mrs. Clinton's would most help middle-class families. ''John McCain promises straight talk,'' Ms. Tanden said in a statement. ''But his speech today is really double talk. Senator McCain spoke about the excesses of companies like Countrywide. But what he fails to mention was that Countrywide would have received a $500 million tax cut under his plan.''
 In one proposal rich with ideological overtones, Mr. McCain, who often complains that the Republicans have lost their way by not curtailing government spending, called for having wealthier Medicare recipients pay higher premiums to qualify for the prescription drug coverage that Mr. Bush and Congress added to the Medicare program a few years ago over his objections. 
 ''People like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett don't need their prescriptions underwritten by taxpayers,'' he said. 
 The higher premiums for the drug benefit would not just be for billionaires, though. The campaign said the proposal called for charging them to single people earning more than $82,000 a year and married couples earning more than $164,000. Doing so, they said, would affect about 5 percent of Medicarebeneficiaries -- about one million people -- and net the government $2 billion over five years.
 Mr. McCain repeated his pledge to veto every bill that comes to his desk with earmarked pork-barrel projects in it, and called for a one-year freeze on increases in nonmilitary discretionary spending -- a relatively small part of the overall federal budget -- while he reviews every federal program, department and agency. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain of Arizona spoke about his economic policies on Tuesday at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSON/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); US LABOR DAY (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



427 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Give Goals for Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush will deliver a Rose Garden speech on Wednesday to lay out specific goals for limiting the greenhouse gases that scientists say are responsible for warming the planet -- a first for a White House that has been accused of dragging its feet in addressing the problem of climate change.
 Mr. Bush will use the speech to ''make a commitment'' to other nations about the intentions of the United States and will announce ''an intermediate goal that will lead to a long-term goal,'' said Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary. 
 Mr. Fratto would not be more specific, but he said Mr. Bush did not intend to lay out a specific plan for achieving the reductions.
 The announcement will deliver on a promise Mr. Bush made last June, when he said the United States would set specific targets for reducing emissions and called on other high-polluting nations to do the same. 
 The White House convened a conference aimed at reaching agreement on climate change by the end of this year. The negotiations are continuing, and representatives of major polluting countries are meeting in Paris this week. 
 The speech is timed to lay down a marker for the Paris conference. It is also intended to lay down a marker for an audience at home, the United States Senate, which will soon debate a climate-change bill that the White House strongly opposes.
 The bill would limit carbon emissions for virtually all sectors of the economy, but allow swapping pollution permits in a ''cap and trade'' program. The measure was approved by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee along party lines. Its chances for final passage are uncertain. 
 Mr. Bush will almost certainly not embrace the bill. Mr. Fratto said the president would not lay out a specific plan for legislation or a path to reach the reductions.
 Even before the speech, critics said Mr. Bush would not be going far enough.
 ''If all he does is lay out a series of goals and doesn't say how to get there and doesn't have mandatory caps on carbon to avoid the ravages of global warming, then he's part of the problem, not part of the solution,'' said Senator Barbara Boxer of California, the chief Democratic sponsor of the bill. 
 Mr. Bush has faced international criticism for his views on climate change since the beginning of his presidency. He has steadfastly rejected the so-called Kyoto Protocol, which limits greenhouse gas emissions, on the ground that China and India, two of the biggest polluters, were not bound by the accord the same way as the United States would be if it joined. 
 Instead, Mr. Bush emphasized a voluntary approach to reducing the emissions.
 But his policies began to shift, and by the beginning of his second term, Mr. Bush explicitly acknowledged that humans were contributing to global warming. In 2007, for the first time, he mentioned climate change in his State of the Union address. 
 Although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, it joined other nations at a conference in Bali last year in agreeing to negotiate a successor protocol by the end of 2009.
 In 2002, Mr. Bush announced a short-term goal of reducing emission by 18 percent by 2012. Critics said the goal was not ambitious enough, and Mr. Bush did not link it to a long-term goal, as the White House said he would do on Wednesday.
 His willingness to set specific targets is ''significant, because it's moving in the right direction,'' said David Victor, a law professor and an expert on climate change at Stanford.
 Professor Victor said that unless Mr. Bush adopted specific hard and fast limits and proposed a concrete way to achieve them, he would not be taken seriously.
 ''If he's not going to outline how you actually get to the goals,'' Professor Victor said, ''it's hard to see that this is going to have much credibility.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about President Bush's plan to lay out specific goals for limiting greenhouse gases misstated a short-term goal for such gases that Mr. Bush announced in 2002. He called for an 18 percent reduction of growth in emissions relative to economic growth by 2012, not a reduction of overall emissions by 18 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



428 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Fight Leaves Democrats Questioning Prospects

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Sean Hamill contributed reporting from Pennsylvania.

 BODY:
The battle between Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama over whether Mr. Obama belittled voters in small towns appears to have hardened the views of both candidates' supporters and stirred anxiety among many Democrats about the party's prospects in the fall.
 For five days, as Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have tangled more ferociously than at almost any point in the last year, interviews with voters in Pennsylvania suggested little new movement toward either side as the primary campaign there entered its final week. A snapshot of public opinion, a poll by Quinnipiac University, showed no change in the race from a week ago. 
 ''There's a lot of truth to what he said,'' said Ezar Lowe, 55, a pastor at a church in Ambridge, Pa., a city along the Ohio River that has been steadily draining population since steel mills began closing two decades ago. ''I've seen it.''
 The closing week of the Democratic primary race in Pennsylvania is awash in fresh accusations of elitism and condescension. After sparring over those topics from afar, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama will come together Wednesday evening at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia for their first debate in nearly two months, which will be televised nationally on ABC.
 Cindy Phillips, 54, a flight attendant from Leetsdale, Pa., said she had intended to vote for Mrs. Clinton before the latest feud developed. But she said her position was solidified by Mr. Obama's remarks that many small-town Pennsylvania voters, ''bitter'' over their economic circumstances, ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them.''
 ''He just doesn't know Pennsylvania,'' Ms. Phillips said in an interview. ''People here are religious because that's their background, not because they're mad about jobs.''
 For six weeks, Mr. Obama had diligently worked to introduce himself to the voters of Pennsylvania. He visited small towns and factories, bowling alleys and beer halls, with every picture designed to allay any concerns that voters harbored about his presidential candidacy.
 Now, though, advisers to Mr. Obama wonder whether those images -- and, more importantly, the political gains that even his detractors believed he was making in the state -- have been overtaken by criticism over what his rivals suggested was a profound misunderstanding of small-town values.
 On Tuesday, as Mr. Obama campaigned about 30 miles south of Pittsburgh in Washington, Pa., he said he was ''amused about this notion as an elitist.'' Asked by a member of the audience if he believed the accusations were racially motivated, he said no, adding, ''I think it's politics.''
 It is a diverse state, but the voters that seemed the toughest for Mr. Obama to win over were the same ones that had helped Mrs. Clinton defeat him in Ohio: working-class whites, especially those in regions that have suffered through decades of economic decline. 
 These Reagan Democrats -- people who might lean Republican on national security and social issues but who look to Democrats on the economy -- could determine whether Mrs. Clinton performs strongly enough against Mr. Obama in Pennsylvania for her campaign to continue. 
 They are also helping to test the limits of Mr. Obama's appeal, a skeptical focus group that to varying degrees has become a proxy for his ability to calm concerns about his race, his values and whether he can connect with voters beyond the Democratic Party's base. 
 ''It seems he's kind of ripping on small towns, and I'm a small town girl,'' said Becki Farmer, 32, who lives in Rochester, Pa., another Ohio River town hit hard by the closed steel mills. ''That's where your good morals and good judgment come from, growing up in small towns.''
 Indeed, advisers to Mr. Obama concede, his job has been made that much more complicated by his remarks about bitterness among small-town voters. Though it remains unclear what effect the episode will have in the long run, it has suddenly prompted a series of questions -- and worry -- from Democrats about whether Mr. Obama could weather a Republican onslaught in the fall, should he win the presidential nomination. 
 In Pennsylvania, as well as coming primaries in Indiana and North Carolina, did Mr. Obama provide another excuse for white voters to voice qualms about his candidacy without acknowledging that it is his race that troubles them? If he defeats Mrs. Clinton, will accusations of elitism dog him as they have previous Democratic nominees? Does Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, suddenly have an issue that will resonate for the next six months?
 It is the criticism from Republicans, though, that worries many Democrats. A senior adviser to Mr. McCain, Steve Schmidt, told reporters on Tuesday that Mr. Obama's comments were ''condescending and elitist'' and that they would keep up the criticism ''for the duration of Senator Obama's candidacy.''
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama seemed to back away from criticizing each other in their respective campaign appearances Tuesday, after days of intense and personal confrontations. Again and again, Mrs. Clinton had branded Mr. Obama as an elitist, while Mr. Obama had mocked Mrs. Clinton as ''talking like she is Annie Oakley,'' after she waxed nostalgically about shooting guns.
 Yet television commercials from both candidates continued to broadcast the charges, ensuring that the debate will almost certainly flare until the primary on Tuesday. It also offered Mrs. Clinton a fresh rationale to make to superdelegates that Mr. Obama is a flawed general-election candidate.
 That, however, is precisely what troubles many voters in Pennsylvania and beyond.
 ''I wish they would just go into a corner and figure it out and quit fighting,'' said Dave Davis, 52, an electrical worker from Oregon, who heard Mr. Obama speak at a union rally on Tuesday but is undecided between the candidates. ''Taking shots at each other isn't doing anybody any good. It will only help Republicans in the end.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, meeting with veterans on Tuesday in Washington, Pa., one week before the primary there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) DIAGRAM: DECISION TREE: THE OBAMA-CLINTON DIVIDE: In the nominating contests so far, Senator Barack Obama has won the vast majority of counties with large black or highly educated populations. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has a commanding lead in less-educated counties dominated by whites. Follow the arrows for a more detailed split. (Sources: Election results via The Associated Press
Census Bureau
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 AMANDA COX/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Diagram showing the Obama-Clinton decision breakdown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RELIGION (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (53%); DRINKING PLACES (50%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



429 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Guns and Bitter

 BODY:
We thought the Republican presidential primaries were over. So we are at a loss to explain why Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton have been wandering around Pennsylvania and Indiana and anywhere else they might find a vote or a dollar arguing about which one cares more about guns and religion.
 Whose brilliant idea was it to leave six weeks open before the Pennsylvania primary? 
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton do raise important issues in their speeches. But the campaign, as seen on TV -- the one that counts -- has been consumed with the senators trading insults over Mr. Obama's boneheaded remarks about working-class voters. They are not doing themselves or the country any good. A few more days of these Punch and Judy shows and even we will be tempted to tune out. 
 As has usually been the case in these spats, Mrs. Clinton is more the aggressor. After days of digging at Mr. Obama for saying that working-class voters turn xenophobic or ''cling to guns and religion'' because they're bitter over lost jobs, Mrs. Clinton couldn't resist a new nasty attack ad. What she has yet to figure out is that she ends up hurting herself -- feeding her negative image -- by attacking too long and with too much relish.
 Mr. Obama is not a hapless victim. His comments made for just the sort of rookie error that the Illinois senator is prone to make, and they have reinforced a feeling that he can be too aloof, or, yes, elitist. His attempts to explain himself have fallen flat, as have his insulting Annie Oakley jokes and demands to see pictures of Mrs. Clinton in a duck blind. Sexist jabs are as offensive as racist jabs.
 The fact is, on guns and religion, as on many other issues, there is no distance between the Democratic contenders. They each have their own religious faith, and they're both, sensibly, in favor of registering guns and controlling weapons designed purely to kill people.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have been hard at it pandering to voters' antitrade sentiments in rust-belt states like Pennsylvania, but it's not clear why they'd want to spar over guns and religion -- not big issues for Democratic primary voters. For Mr. Obama, talk of religion is particularly perilous, reminding voters of the racist oratory of his longtime pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Jr. If the candidates want to debate these issues, they should do so on the substance.
 Indeed, there are many big problems to discuss and not enough discussion of them. Both candidates, for example, were too passive during last week's Senate testimony by Gen. David Petraeus, the military commander in Iraq, and Ryan Crocker, the American ambassador in Baghdad.
 It was shockingly clear that President Bush has no plan to end his disastrous war in Iraq except to hand the problem on to his successor. But neither senator made a mark questioning the general or the ambassador at the hearings. And they were silent afterward, while Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, talked of victory. The Democrats should have been explaining how they plan to bring American troops safely home and contain Iraq's chaos. That will be the job on Day One for whoever wins in November. 
 The reason this campaign started out as the Democrats' big chance to take back Washington is that Americans face huge challenges on which the Republicans have an abysmal record: Iraq and Afghanistan, the trashing of America's global image, inequitable taxes, a flagging economy, epidemic home foreclosures, lost jobs, soaring health care costs and struggling schools.
 These are the issues Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton should be addressing. We hope they get back to them, starting tonight at their debate in Pennsylvania.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); GUN CONTROL (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



430 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Working-Class America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Mask Slips,'' by William Kristol (column, April 14):
 Mr. Kristol believes that Barack Obama's comment about working-class Americans being ''bitter'' and thus clinging to religion, guns and being anti-immigration is an indication of Mr. Obama's disdain for small-town America. Nonsense. Religion, guns and anti-immigration feelings are all quite possible responses to resentment, hostility over economic and social dead ends in people's lives. One can turn to any of these areas and find comfort and escape. Even things good or neutral in themselves can be used in a negative way. 
 There is nothing in Barack Obama's life or his continuous speeches and writing that indicates a disdain for anyone, much less small-town America. Sometimes we just don't want to hear the hard truth. 
 Carol Berg St. Joseph, Minn., April 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It is easy to understand William Kristol's misinterpretation of Barack Obama's comments on small-town working-class America. After all, a serious discussion of the issues would cast a negative light on the Republicans, who so successfully use the issues of guns, God and immigration to win the votes of working-class people and then reward their support by giving tax breaks to the wealthiest while sending the children of working-class America to fight the war that Mr. Kristol and his fellow neoconservatives misled us into. 
 Patricia Kenney Whitestone, Queens, April 14, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol draws an interesting comparison between Barack Obama's statements in San Francisco and Karl Marx's views on Christianity. In doing so, he seeks to demonstrate what he perceives to be Mr. Obama's ''supercilious disdain'' for the common American. 
 As a current student of political philosophy, perhaps I may offer another interpretation. Whereas Marx saw Christianity as a manipulative siren of hollow truths, Mr. Obama's concern is not with the impotence of Christianity, but rather the lamentable reality that religion -- still a good thing in itself -- often becomes the outlet and endpoint of various frustrations and disappointments generated elsewhere in life.
 Mr. Obama simply suggests, as always, that we ought to ask more of ourselves and our government. 
 His remarks were not a criticism of small-town religiosity, but rather a criticism of government's failure to acknowledge the frustrations of the common American. Barack Obama knows these frustrations, and as president, he will act on them with neither a hammer nor a sickle. 
 Adam Stanley Sieff Washington, April 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol may want to construe Barack Obama's meaning as the words of a closet Marxist, but in reality, Mr. Obama was expressing what Thomas Frank explored in his book ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' 
 In the speech in question, Mr. Obama was describing small towns in Pennsylvania and in the Midwest where jobs have been lost for 25 years, yet residents vote against their own interests. In those towns, the frustrated workers repeatedly vote for the Republicans, who are less likely to protect their jobs and safety, while being more likely to benefit the workers' corporate employers.
 How do the Republicans do it? Through the use of conservative opinion makers who divert attention from bread-and-butter issues that really affect frustrated voters and instead focus on guns, gays and immigrant blaming, and whether a candidate was wearing a flag pin in his lapel. 
 Joel Peskoff Baldwin, N.Y., April 14, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Unlike William Kristol, I did not interpret references to bitterness in Barack Obama's speech as condescension to small-town America. His comments could apply more universally, to people on farms and in cities, too. 
 I am an intrinsically optimistic person (living on a farm fringing a city with a fine college) and am intensely bitter about what has happened to my country and to others it directly or indirectly affects militarily, politically and environmentally over the last eight years. What I cling to is the audacious hope that the presidential election will usher in real change -- beginning on Day 1.
 Susan Wunder Bloomington, Ind., April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); IMMIGRATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



431 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Intel Reports Strong Demand for Chips in Quarter

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Intel to investors: ''What slowdown?''
 An upbeat Intel, the leading computer chip maker, reported Tuesday that global demand for chips was ''solid'' during the first quarter, soothing investor fears that a weakening economy was starting to take its toll on the technology industry.
 ''The first quarter marked a very good start to 2008,'' said Paul S. Otellini, Intel's chief executive, in a conference call with analysts Tuesday. The results, he said, ''demonstrate a strengthening core business and a solid global market environment.'' 
 His forecast for the current quarter was also slightly higher than analysts expected, which generated a rally in early after-hours trading. 
 Shares of Intel rose more than 8 percent in early after-hours trading but then fell 1 percent. The shares had gained 24 cents, to $20.93 in regular trading before the report was issued.
 Mr. Otellini told analysts that the company saw particularly strong demand for products based on its new 45-nanometer manufacturing process, which enables more features to be packed on smaller chips. The company said it experienced strong demand for its high-end servers, most notably in North America. 
 Intel's report came amid rising concern on Wall Street about the possibility of a broad slowdown in consumer demand for computers. In January, Intel, a closely watched bellwether of the technology industry, issued a disappointing forecast for the first quarter, rattling investors. 
 ''Investors are likely to be encouraged by Intel's execution, their new products and their gross margin expectation,'' said Timothy Luke, an analyst with Lehman Brothers. ''In a time of uncertainty, at least they're delivering on what they can control.''
 The company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said it now expected gross profit margins of 56 percent in the second quarter, compared with its earlier forecast of 54.9 percent.
 Intel projected its gross margin, a measure closely watched by Wall Street, for the full year would be about 57 percent, beating estimates of about 56 percent for the year.
 The company reported financial results in line with analysts' forecasts. Net income in the first quarter declined 12 percent, to $1.4 billion, or 25 cents a share, from $1.64 billion, or 28 cents, in the period a year earlier. The company said the quarter included a restructuring charge amounting to 4 cents a share.
 Intel's revenue increased 9 percent, to $9.67 billion from $8.85 billion. 
 Intel has clearly benefited from the missteps of its chief rival, Advanced Micro Devices, which has suffered from technical glitches and repeated product delays. Intel, meanwhile, has regained some of the market share it had lost to A.M.D. 
 Intel's strong performance was in stark contrast to A.M.D.'s announcement last week that it blamed deteriorating business conditions for its decision to lay off 10 percent of its work force and reduce its financial guidance for the first quarter. Analysts expect A.M.D. to report a net loss of $263 million, or 42 cents a share, when it announces its earnings on Thursday.
 ''With Intel and A.M.D. both preannouncing this quarter, even for different reasons, there was a concern about a problem in the PC market,'' said Cody Acree, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus. ''It looks like Intel put that to rest. It doesn't look like we're seeing any deterioration in PC fundamentals.''
 In March, Intel blamed a steep drop in prices for NAND flash memory, the chips used in portable electronic devices, for its decision to lower its gross profit margin from its previous forecast of about 56 percent. An oversupply of memory chips, along with fierce competition, has put pressure on prices, the company said. 
 ''Our strengthening core business offset weakness in our NAND business,'' Stacy J. Smith, Intel's chief finance officer, said in an interview. 
 Mr. Otellini said the company was currently rethinking its strategy in the NAND market and moved to assure analysts that he would not endure continued losses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul S. Otellini, Intel's chief executive, said Tuesday, ''The first quarter marked a very good start to 2008.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONDA CHURCHILL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: PAUL S OTELLINI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



432 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Blogger Listens to Her Inner Journalist, and a Second Firestorm Erupts

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The back story of how Senator Barack Obama's comments about small-town voters became news is getting almost as much attention in the blogosphere as the comments themselves. 
 Mayhill Fowler, a blogger for OffTheBus.net, was the first to report Mr. Obama's comments -- that small-town voters in Pennsylvania ''cling'' to guns and religion out of bitterness at their economic situation -- which he made at a fund-raiser in California. 
 In part because Ms. Fowler is an Obama supporter whose $2,300 donation to his campaign seems to have helped her get into the fund-raiser, her scoop has offered a revealing glimpse into yet even more ways the Internet is changing the coverage of politics. The news media was not invited to the event, but Ms. Fowler said she considered herself a journalist. 
 Mr. Obama's remarks created a sensation and were seized on by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who used them to try to slow his momentum in the polls in Pennsylvania. If Pennsylvania rejects Mr. Obama by a wide margin in Tuesday's primary, and voters in Indiana and North Carolina follow suit, these comments could be the game changer. 
 Ms. Fowler said in an interview Sunday that she had initially been reluctant to write about what Mr. Obama said because she supported him, which partly explains why she waited four days to do so. Ultimately, she said, she decided that if she did not write about it, she would not be worth her salt as a journalist.
 Obama supporters in the blogosphere are up in arms at Ms. Fowler, calling her a plant for Mrs. Clinton, and suggesting she used deception to get into the fund-raiser. Ms. Fowler finds the whole fuss a little hard to believe.
 ''I'm 61,'' she said. ''I can't believe I would be one of the people who's changing the world of media.'' 
 But her experience raises questions about whether the roles and rules for journalists are different for bloggers. Can a person be both? Even Ms. Fowler acknowledged that ''clearly everyone is going to be rethinking how they handle this kind of thing.''
 Ms. Fowler, who graduated from Vassar in 1968 and has dabbled in writing for years, became a ''citizen journalist'' last summer when The Huffington Post started OffTheBus.net, a venture that has now expanded to a network of about 1,800 unpaid writers and researchers. 
 Jay Rosen, who with Arianna Huffington founded OffTheBus, said they anticipated such a problem when they deployed ordinary citizens, as opposed to professional journalists, to cover the campaigns.
 ''We knew there could be problems with this approach, and possible disputes with the campaigns,'' he wrote on his blog. ''But we also felt that participants in politics had a right to report on what they saw and heard themselves, not as journalists claiming no attachments, but as citizens with attachments who were relinquishing none of their rights.''
 Generally, mainstream news media outlets ban their reporters, especially those covering politics, from making campaign donations. In Ms. Fowler's case, she had not only given money to Mr. Obama but also gave $100 to Mrs. Clinton. Ms. Fowler is a year older than Mrs. Clinton and said that at first she liked the idea of a woman as president. (She also gave $500 to Fred Thompson, the former senator from Tennessee, even though he is a Republican, because she has family roots in Tennessee.)
 As an Obama supporter who had made donations, Ms. Fowler had been invited to his fund-raisers before -- and written about them on OffTheBus. After the Ohio and Texas primaries, she was back home in the Bay Area and heard that Mr. Obama would be holding four fund-raisers there on April 6. She had not been invited but asked a friend in the campaign if she could go. She was put on the list for the last of four events, this one at a mansion in San Francisco.
 There is a bit of a brush fire in California about how Ms. Fowler got in, and Ms. Fowler is protecting the person who secured her the ticket. Ms. Fowler said that person had since called her to say that fund-raisers were always off the record.
 ''This was never conveyed to me,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''I was invited to the event. I had written on fund-raisers in the past. Why wouldn't I this time?''
 As to whether the campaign knew Ms. Fowler was at the event and likely to blog about it, an Obama aide said the campaign recognized that ''from time to time, people do blog from events closed to the media.'' 
 And, he added, there is not much a campaign can do about it.
 Marc Cooper, the editorial coordinator of OffTheBus, is writing on his blog about how Ms. Fowler's story has developed, and he acknowledged that the Obama campaign did not want the event covered. Still, he wrote: ''Most if not all press was kept out of the room, but Mayhill was invited in. She was under no obligation not to report. Obama was indeed more loose-lipped than usual. He should be more careful in his choice of words when he is staring into so many video cams, no matter who is holding them.'' 
 Ms. Fowler said she made no effort to conceal her digital recorder, holding it openly. The place was jammed with others using video cameras and cameras, she said, including a professor who was recording the event for his students. Snippets of the speech were posted on YouTube.
 Ms. Fowler had just finished covering Mr. Obama's bus trip across Pennsylvania -- not on the bus itself but tagging along in a car -- and was well acquainted with his stump speech. So she recognized that his comments about rural voters were new. 
 She said she knew the remarks could hurt him and wrestled about what to do. ''There are no standards of journalism on the Internet,'' she said. ''I'm always second guessing myself. Is this the right thing to do? Am I being fair?''
 She said she discussed the matter with her husband. ''Like many people, he didn't see anything wrong with the remarks,'' she said. ''He didn't think it was newsworthy.''
 Then she told her Web editor in New York that she had some interesting material but did not tell her what it was. ''Initially I resisted what she was telling me, which was that if you're going to cover the campaign, you have to not be partial or your coverage isn't worth as much as it could be,'' she said.
 She then realized that her editor was right. In a few hours, the post garnered 250,000 page views. By nightfall, Mr. Obama was trying to explain his comments, and Mrs. Clinton was trying to exploit them.
 Ms. Huffington said that despite being an Obama supporter herself, there was no debate about whether to post the item. 
 ''We are a news site,'' said Ms. Huffington, who cleared the post by cellphone while aboard David Geffen's yacht in Tahiti. ''We have opinions, points of view, but we'll post whatever is newsworthy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



433 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
VIDEO: THE POPE'S VISIT
 Complete coverage of Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the United States, including part two of the video series on the Pequeno family's pilgrimage, an audio interview with Laurie Goodstein of The Times, and blog postings by a panel of experts. Above, members of the Pequeno family, who traveled from Houston to see the pope, in Washington. 
 nytimes.com/popevisit
 VIDEO: THE HANGTOWN FRY
 Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, makes scrambled eggs with bacon and oysters.
 nytimes.com/dining
 VIDEO: MCCAIN
 And the Economy
 John Harwood, of The Times and CNBC, sits down with Senator John McCain to talk about taxes, government spending and other issues.
 nytimes.com/politics
 TIMES TOPICS:
 Passover Recipes
 What to serve for the holiday, from Moroccan shad with fava beans to Argentine roast chicken with vegetables and chimichurri sauce, and Odessa-style gefilte fish to cashew nut strudel with guava and lime. Also, memories of Passover in old New York, including making matzo on the Lower East Side in 1871.
 nytimes.com/dining
 TIMES TOPICS:
 Virginia Tech
 On the anniversary of the shootings at the university, a panel reviews developments related to gun laws, mental health, student privacy and other issues that were raised by the attack.
 nytimes.com/virginiatech
 BAGHDAD BUREAU:
 Walking Toward the Dead
 An Iraqi employee for The New York Times writes about sifting through the aftermath of explosions and the dread of hearing of a new attack, knowing that its victims are largely bystanders. 
 nytimes.com/baghdadbureau
 THE LEDE:
 Cracking Down on Pirates
 In 2005, there were so many pirates marauding in the Malacca Strait, one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, that Lloyd's of London classified it as a war zone. But last year, there wasn't a single attack, according to a Malaysian defense official.
 What changed?
 nytimes.com/thelede

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PASSOVER (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%)

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (65%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (65%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (67%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



434 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Money Doesn't Buy Happiness. Well, on Second Thought ...

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the aftermath of World War II, the Japanese economy went through one of the greatest booms the world has ever known. From 1950 to 1970, the economy's output per person grew more than sevenfold. Japan, in just a few decades, remade itself from a war-torn country into one of the richest nations on earth.
 Yet, strangely, Japanese citizens didn't seem to become any more satisfied with their lives. According to one poll, the percentage of people who gave the most positive possible answer about their life satisfaction actually fell from the late 1950s to the early '70s. They were richer but apparently no happier. 
 This contrast became the most famous example of a theory known as the Easterlin paradox. In 1974, Richard Easterlin, then an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, published a study in which he argued that economic growth didn't necessarily lead to more satisfaction. 
 People in poor countries, not surprisingly, did become happier once they could afford basic necessities. But beyond that, further gains simply seemed to reset the bar. To put it in today's terms, owning an iPod doesn't make you happier, because you then want an iPod Touch. Relative income -- how much you make compared with others around you -- mattered far more than absolute income, Mr. Easterlin wrote.
 The paradox quickly became a social science classic, cited in academic journals and the popular media. It tapped into a near-spiritual human instinct to believe that money can't buy happiness. As a 2006 headline in The Financial Times said, ''The Hippies Were Right All Along About Happiness.'' 
 But now the Easterlin paradox is under attack.
 Last week, at the Brookings Institution in Washington, two young economists -- from the University of Pennsylvania, as it happens -- presented a rebuttal of the paradox. Their paper has quickly captured the attention of top economists around the world. It has also led to a spirited response from Mr. Easterlin.
 In the paper, Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers argue that money indeed tends to bring happiness, even if it doesn't guarantee it. They point out that in the 34 years since Mr. Easterlin published his paper, an explosion of public opinion surveys has allowed for a better look at the question. ''The central message,'' Ms. Stevenson said, ''is that income does matter.''
 To see what they mean, take a look at the map that accompanies this column. It's based on Gallup polls done around the world, and it clearly shows that life satisfaction is highest in the richest countries. The residents of these countries seem to understand that they have it pretty good, whether or not they own an iPod Touch.
 If anything, Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers say, absolute income seems to matter more than relative income. In the United States, about 90 percent of people in households making at least $250,000 a year called themselves ''very happy'' in a recent Gallup Poll. In households with income below $30,000, only 42 percent of people gave that answer. But the international polling data suggests that the under-$30,000 crowd might not be happier if they lived in a poorer country.
 Even the Japanese anomaly isn't quite what it first seems to be. Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers dug into those old government surveys and discovered that the question had changed over the years. 
 In the late 1950s and early '60s, the most positive answer the pollsters offered was, ''Although I am not innumerably satisfied, I am generally satisfied with life now.'' (Can you imagine an American poll offering that option?) But in 1964, the most positive answer became simply, ''Completely satisfied.'' 
 It is no wonder, then, that the percentage of people giving this answer fell. When you look only at the years in which the question remained the same, the share of people calling themselves ''satisfied'' or ''completely satisfied'' did rise.
 To put the new research into context, I called Daniel Kahneman, a Princeton psychologist who shared the 2002 Nobel Prize in economics. He has spent his career skewering economists for their belief that money is everything and has himself written about the ''aspiration treadmill'' at the heart of the Easterlin paradox. 
 Yet Mr. Kahneman said he found the Stevenson-Wolfers paper to be ''quite compelling.'' He added, ''There is just a vast amount of accumulating evidence that the Easterlin paradox may not exist.'' 
 I then called Mr. Easterlin, who's now at the University of Southern California and who had received a copy of the paper from Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers. He agreed that people in richer countries are more satisfied. But he's skeptical that their wealth is causing their satisfaction. The results could instead reflect cultural differences in how people respond to poll questions, he said.
 He would be more persuaded, he continued, if satisfaction had clearly risen in individual countries as they grew richer. In some, it has. But in others -- notably the United States and China -- it has not.
 ''Everybody wants to show the Easterlin paradox doesn't hold up,'' he told me. ''And I'm perfectly willing to believe it doesn't hold up. But I'd like to see an informed analysis that shows that.'' He said he liked Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers personally, but he thought they had put out ''a very rough draft without sufficient evidence.''
 They, in turn, acknowledge that the data on individual countries over time is messy. But they note that satisfaction has risen in 8 of the 10 European countries for which there is polling back to 1970. It has also risen in Japan. And a big reason it may not have risen in the United States is that the hourly pay of most workers has not grown much recently.
 ''The time-series evidence is fragile,'' Mr. Wolfers said. ''But it's more consistent with our story than his.''
 So where does all this leave us?
 Economic growth, by itself, certainly isn't enough to guarantee people's well-being -- which is Mr. Easterlin's great contribution to economics. In this country, for instance, some big health care problems, like poor basic treatment of heart disease, don't stem from a lack of sufficient resources. Recent research has also found that some of the things that make people happiest -- short commutes, time spent with friends -- have little to do with higher incomes. 
 But it would be a mistake to take this argument too far. The fact remains that economic growth doesn't just make countries richer in superficially materialistic ways. 
 Economic growth can also pay for investments in scientific research that lead to longer, healthier lives. It can allow trips to see relatives not seen in years or places never visited. When you're richer, you can decide to work less -- and spend more time with your friends. 
 Affluence is a pretty good deal. Judging from that map, the people of the world seem to agree. At a time when the American economy seems to have fallen into recession and most families' incomes have been stagnant for almost a decade, it's good to be reminded of why we should care.
Correction: April 21, 2008, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Wednesday with the Economic Scene column, about the relationship between income and personal satisfaction, misidentified the country shown with a gross domestic product of just under $8,000 per capita and a satisfaction score of just over 5. It was Iran, not Ireland. (As the chart correctly noted, Ireland has a gross domestic product of more than $32,000 per capita and a satisfaction score above 7.)

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (pg.C1)
 CHART: MEASURING SATISFACTION: A new study shows that people in wealthier countries are more likely to be satisfied with their lives. Earlier research had suggested that satisfaction did not necessarily increase once basic needs were met. (Source: Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers, Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010



435 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Blogger Listens to Her Inner Journalist, and a Second Firestorm Erupts

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The back story of how Senator Barack Obama's comments about small-town voters became news is getting almost as much attention in the blogosphere as the comments themselves. 
 Mayhill Fowler, a blogger for OffTheBus.net, was the first to report Mr. Obama's comments -- that small-town voters in Pennsylvania ''cling'' to guns and religion out of bitterness at their economic situation -- which he made at a fund-raiser in California. 
 In part because Ms. Fowler is an Obama supporter whose $2,300 donation to his campaign seems to have helped her get into the fund-raiser, her scoop has offered a revealing glimpse into yet even more ways the Internet is changing the coverage of politics. The news media was not invited to the event, but Ms. Fowler said she considered herself a journalist. 
 Mr. Obama's remarks created a sensation and were seized on by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who used them to try to slow his momentum in the polls in Pennsylvania. If Pennsylvania rejects Mr. Obama by a wide margin in Tuesday's primary, and voters in Indiana and North Carolina follow suit, these comments could be the game changer. 
 Ms. Fowler said in an interview Sunday that she had initially been reluctant to write about what Mr. Obama said because she supported him, which partly explains why she waited four days to do so. Ultimately, she said, she decided that if she did not write about it, she would not be worth her salt as a journalist.
 Obama supporters in the blogosphere are up in arms at Ms. Fowler, calling her a plant for Mrs. Clinton, and suggesting she used deception to get into the fund-raiser. Ms. Fowler finds the whole fuss a little hard to believe.
 ''I'm 61,'' she said. ''I can't believe I would be one of the people who's changing the world of media.'' 
 But her experience raises questions about whether the roles and rules for journalists are different for bloggers. Can a person be both? Even Ms. Fowler acknowledged that ''clearly everyone is going to be rethinking how they handle this kind of thing.''
 Ms. Fowler, who graduated from Vassar in 1968 and has dabbled in writing for years, became a ''citizen journalist'' last summer when The Huffington Post started OffTheBus.net, a venture that has now expanded to a network of about 1,800 unpaid writers and researchers. 
 Jay Rosen, who with Arianna Huffington founded OffTheBus, said they anticipated such a problem when they deployed ordinary citizens, as opposed to professional journalists, to cover the campaigns.
 ''We knew there could be problems with this approach, and possible disputes with the campaigns,'' he wrote on his blog. ''But we also felt that participants in politics had a right to report on what they saw and heard themselves, not as journalists claiming no attachments, but as citizens with attachments who were relinquishing none of their rights.''
 Generally, mainstream news media outlets ban their reporters, especially those covering politics, from making campaign donations. In Ms. Fowler's case, she had not only given money to Mr. Obama but also gave $100 to Mrs. Clinton. Ms. Fowler is a year older than Mrs. Clinton and said that at first she liked the idea of a woman as president. (She also gave $500 to Fred Thompson, the former senator from Tennessee, even though he is a Republican, because she has family roots in Tennessee.)
 As an Obama supporter who had made donations, Ms. Fowler had been invited to his fund-raisers before -- and written about them on OffTheBus. After the Ohio and Texas primaries, she was back home in the Bay Area and heard that Mr. Obama would be holding four fund-raisers there on April 6. She had not been invited but asked a friend in the campaign if she could go. She was put on the list for the last of four events, this one at a mansion in San Francisco.
 There is a bit of a brush fire in California about how Ms. Fowler got in, and Ms. Fowler is protecting the person who secured her the ticket. Ms. Fowler said that person had since called her to say that fund-raisers were always off the record.
 ''This was never conveyed to me,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''I was invited to the event. I had written on fund-raisers in the past. Why wouldn't I this time?''
 As to whether the campaign knew Ms. Fowler was at the event and likely to blog about it, an Obama aide said the campaign recognized that ''from time to time, people do blog from events closed to the media.'' 
 And, he added, there is not much a campaign can do about it.
 Marc Cooper, the editorial coordinator of OffTheBus, is writing on his blog about how Ms. Fowler's story has developed, and he acknowledged that the Obama campaign did not want the event covered. Still, he wrote: ''Most if not all press was kept out of the room, but Mayhill was invited in. She was under no obligation not to report. Obama was indeed more loose-lipped than usual. He should be more careful in his choice of words when he is staring into so many video cams, no matter who is holding them.'' 
 Ms. Fowler said she made no effort to conceal her digital recorder, holding it openly. The place was jammed with others using video cameras and cameras, she said, including a professor who was recording the event for his students. Snippets of the speech were posted on YouTube.
 Ms. Fowler had just finished covering Mr. Obama's bus trip across Pennsylvania -- not on the bus itself but tagging along in a car -- and was well acquainted with his stump speech. So she recognized that his comments about rural voters were new. 
 She said she knew the remarks could hurt him and wrestled about what to do. ''There are no standards of journalism on the Internet,'' she said. ''I'm always second guessing myself. Is this the right thing to do? Am I being fair?''
 She said she discussed the matter with her husband. ''Like many people, he didn't see anything wrong with the remarks,'' she said. ''He didn't think it was newsworthy.''
 Then she told her Web editor in New York that she had some interesting material but did not tell her what it was. ''Initially I resisted what she was telling me, which was that if you're going to cover the campaign, you have to not be partial or your coverage isn't worth as much as it could be,'' she said.
 She then realized that her editor was right. In a few hours, the post garnered 250,000 page views. By nightfall, Mr. Obama was trying to explain his comments, and Mrs. Clinton was trying to exploit them.
 Ms. Huffington said that despite being an Obama supporter herself, there was no debate about whether to post the item. 
 ''We are a news site,'' said Ms. Huffington, who cleared the post by cellphone while aboard David Geffen's yacht in Tahiti. ''We have opinions, points of view, but we'll post whatever is newsworthy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010



436 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2976 words

HEADLINE: Life in the Time of Cholera

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and JAVAID KHAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students learn about the way the 1832 cholera epidemic in New York affected urban life and reflected issues like immigration and social class in the growing city. They then take part in a collaborative writing exercise in which they have a "conversation on paper" about various documents related to urban life during the Industrial Revolution. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan:
In this lesson, students learn about how the 1832 cholera epidemic in New York affected urban life and reflected issues like immigration and social class in city. They then take part in a collaborative writing exercise in which they have a "conversation on paper" about documents related to urban life during the Industrial Revolution.
Author(s):
Annissa Hambouz, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance:
One hour
Objectives:
Students will:
 1. Respond to the language and messages warning New Yorkers of cholera in the 1830s.
 2. Learn about the role of the 1832 cholera outbreak during New York's period of industrialization by reading and discussing the article, "How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis."
 3. Take part in a collaborative writing exercise using a variety of documents related to urban life during the Industrial Revolution.
 4. Write a letter, diary entry or dialogue from the point of view of someone living in a community affected by cholera during the 19th century.
Resources/Materials:
-student journals
 -pens/pencils
 -paper
 -classroom board
 -copies of "How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080416wednesday.html (one per student)
 -classroom computer with Internet access and projector
 -7-10 pieces of large poster board
 -7-10 sources on urban life during the Industrial Revolution (see lesson plan for further explanation)
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: Before class, either print out or project a health notice on cholera prevention from 1830s New York, found online at The New York Times at http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/15/science/15chol.html?_r=1&oref=slogin (image in the left sidebar), or at the New York Historical Society "Plague in Gotham! Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York" exhibit page (http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/15/science/15chol.html?_r=1&oref=slogin)
 At the beginning of the period, have students examine this document and respond to the following questions (written on the board prior to class):
 -What is the main message of this poster?
 -Where do you think it might have been used, and at what time? Why?
 -What words or phrases stand out to you, either as unfamiliar or as outdated? 
Allow students several minutes to look at the poster and write their responses. Then call on several students to share what they have written. Responses will vary depending on your curriculum. If necessary, explain that this was a "broadside," or a large printed announcement similar to the public service announcement posters we use today. It was printed during New York City's cholera outbreak in 1832, when there was increasing immigration and rapid industrialization. If students are familiar with some of the effects the Industrial Revolution had on 19th century society, have them briefly discuss some of the other challenges people faced during this time of rampant urbanization. You may wish to review topics like tenement housing, sanitation and sewage issues, the "miasmatic theory" of disease, emerging social classes, urban planning and migration from rural countryside to urban centers. 
Conclude this discussion by explaining that students will be learning more about the ways cholera affected New York City in the 1800s by reading today's article from The New York Times. 
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080416wednesday.html) focusing on the following questions:
 a. Why did New York's wealthier residents escape the city in 1832?
 b. What is cholera?
 c. How did people in the 1830s believe the disease was transmitted? How was it actually spread?
 d. What toll did the 1832 cholera outbreak take on New York?
 e. Which communities did it affect the most, and why?
 f. To which other historical events (both ancient and modern) does the article compare the cholera outbreak?
 g. How did the city eventually manage to control the spread of cholera?
 h. What clues does the article offer about immigrant life during the 1800s?
 i. How did the disease affect the way New York City developed in the 1800s?
 j. What information presented in the article reflects the division among social classes during the 1800s?
 k. How, if at all, has this article affected your understanding of urban life during the 1800s?
 l. What voices do you think are missing from the reporting of this article? 
3. Before class, you will need to prepare between seven and 10 "stations" around the classroom. (The number of stations will depend on the density of the documents you choose as well as the ability of your students to read and respond to them independently.) Each station should feature a large piece of poster board on which you have pasted a document or excerpt from a document related to the topic: urban life during 19th century industrialization. These documents should include a mix of different kinds of sources like news articles, photographs, infographics, maps, interviews, letters, political cartoons, editorials and excerpts from other documents. You may wish to consider some of the following online resources: 
On Disease:
 -The New York Times Multimedia Photographic Slideshow on the cholera outbreak of 1832 (http://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2008/04/15/science/20080415_CHOLERA_SLIDESHOW_index.html) provides illustrations, a map of the city at the time, and drawings of cholera victims.
-An 1849 letter from Memphis describing cholera outbreak in the South can be found online at USGenNet (http://www.tngenweb.org/tnletters/shel.htm).
 -Images and cartoons on 19th century urban housing and health, compiled by St. Andrew's University can be found online at http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/~city19c/viccity/houshealth.html.
-The BBC's "London's 'Great Stink' and Victorian Urban Planning," by Professor Martin Daunton, offers photographs and documents related to life in 19th century London, and can be found online at http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/trail/victorian_britain/social_conditions/victorian_urban_planning_01.shtml. 
On Immigration:
 -The Ithaca City School District Library hosts "Effects and Consequences of the Industrial Revolution," which tells the story of labor, immigration, and industrialization using images from the 19th century (http://www.icsd.k12.ny.us/acs/library/ushistory/laborwebquest/index.html).
-The Lower East Side Tenement Museum Index (http://www.tenement.org/Encyclopedia/toc.htm) includes information on all of New York's immigrant populations in the 19th century as well as other information related to urban life at this time.
-Victoriana's "Stereotyping of the Irish Immigrant in 19th Century Periodicals," by Christine Haug, contains a number of cartoons related to this topic (http://www.victoriana.com/Irish/IrishPoliticalCartoons.htm).
On Industry and Social Class:
 -Primary documents on industry and workers in "Rise of Industrial America: 1876-1900," can be found online at the Library of Congress at http://memory.loc.gov/learn/features/timeline/riseind/work/work.html.
-An excerpt from Andrew Canegie's "The Gospel of Wealth" (1889), from the Modern History Sourcebook, can be found online at http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/mod/1889carnegie.html. 
After reading today's article, have students rotate through every station with pens or markers in hand. At each station, ask students to read and respond to the featured text by writing a short comment or question on the blank poster board space surrounding it. As students circulate in small groups around the various stations and add more to their understanding of the topic, encourage them to have a "conversation on paper," in which they may write responses to previous comments and questions. When students eventually return to their original stations, they should spend several minutes reading the comments written by others who responded after them. 
At the end of the period, students reconvene as a class to discuss their impressions of the documents they reviewed and what information helped add to their understanding of urban life during the 19th century, and specifically on public health. Were they surprised by any of the documents? How did the emerging social classes (middle and working classes) differ at this time of change? What role do students think immigration may have played in New York City's urban expansion that made it different from other industrial centers like London or Manchester? How were people discriminated against both for socioeconomic status and their ethnicity or nationality? Which populations seemed to bear the most discrimination for these reasons? Why? What parallels might they draw between New York during the Industrial Revolution and cities in developing countries today? Why? 
4. Wrap-Up/Homework: To wrap up this lesson, have students revisit the article at the end of class. Now that they have read excerpts from John Pintard's letters offering the distant and disdainful perspective of the upper class during the cholera outbreak, their task will be to communicate the perspective of those who lived in communities devastated by the disease. For homework, have students write a letter, diary entry, or dialogue from the point of view of someone suffering from the disease or from one of the "heroes in the ordeal" mentioned in today's article, like the nuns and priests who remained in New York to aid the sick and dying.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-What do you think about the comparison the article raises between cholera in the 1830s and AIDS in the 1980s? Why?
 -In what other situations have you witnessed someone "blame the victim"?
 -If you could travel back in time to the 19th century, which parts of the world or historic events would you like to see? Why?
Evaluation/Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the initial exercise, thoughtful participation in the in-class collaborative writing exercise, and completion of creative writing response for homework.
Vocabulary:
Somber, cholera, prognosis, dire, livery coaches, vulnerabilities, broadside, squalor, stench, dissolute, habitations, malady, epidemiology, fouled, miasmas, noxious, hypothesis, metastasized, loathsome, sinkhole, poultices, idyllic, epidemic, chastened
Extension Activities:
1. Compare the living conditions in 19th century American or European urban centers to industrializing nations around the world today. Make a chart of similarities and differences, based on what you know about history. You may wish to start your research with The Economist article, "A Flourishing Slum" (Debember 17, 2007), found online at http://www.economist.com/world/asia/displaystory.cfm?story_id=10311293. 
2. Revisit the cholera broadside you examined at the start of class. Think of a current disease and create a public service announcement that offers people advice on treatment and contagion. 
3. Choose two common ailments, like headaches or sore throats, and write a short report comparing remedies from one hundred years ago with the treatments of today. 
4. The article mentions Dr. John Snow. Research and write a biography about a doctor or scientist who has made a significant impact on our understanding of viruses.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Fine Arts -- Create a slideshow of Realist and Impressionist Art depicting urban life in the 19th century. 
Global History -- Choose one of the ancient historical references from the article (Pompeii, Rome, or Sumerian civilization), to investigate and create a visual presentation for your class. 
Language Arts -- Read a novel by a 19th century author, like Charles Dickens or Emile Zola, which describes the gritty details of urban life during industrialization. Write a review of the novel focusing on social class and living conditions. 
Media Studies -- Using this article as inspiration, write an episode for a modern television drama in which an unexpected and mysterious outbreak of a disease impacts life in a city today. 
Teaching with The Times -- Most of us take clean, drinkable water for granted. Search The New York Times for articles related to water, from sanitation and clean water sources to irrigation and agriculture. Over the course of a month, "tell the story" of this precious natural resource by summarizing the articles you have read. (To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Other Information on the Web:
Further information on The New York Historical Society's "Plague in Gotham!" exhibit can be found online at https://www.nyhistory.org/cholera/. 
The Department of Epidemiology at the University of California, Los Angeles has a site devoted to John Snow, the doctor who identified the connection between contaminated water and cholera and established the foundations for scientific epidemiology (http://www.ph.ucla.edu/epi/snow.html). 
For more information about cholera around the world today, visit the World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/topics/cholera/en/). 
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8 
 Historical Understanding Standard 2 -- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Analyzes the influence specific ideas and beliefs had on a period of history; knows different types of primary and secondary sources and the motives, interests and bias expressed in them. 
 United States History Standard 16 -- Understands how the rise of corporations, heavy industry, and mechanized farming transformed American society. Benchmarks: Understands influences on business and industry in the 19th century; understands responses to the challenges of rapid urbanization in the late 19th century; understands differences in commercial farming in various regions of the United States; understands various influences on the scenic and urban environment. 
 Geography Standard 6 -- Understands that culture and experience influence people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmark: Knows the ways in which culture influences the perception of places and regions. 
 Geography Standard 12 -- Understands the patterns of human settlement and their causes. Benchmarks: Knows the causes and consequences of urbanization; knows the similarities and differences in various settlement patterns of the world; knows ways in which both the landscape and society change as a consequence of shifting from a dispersed to a concentrated settlement form. 
 Health Standard 8 -- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how lifestyle, pathogens, family history and other risk factors are related to the cause or prevention of disease and other health problems; knows communicable, chronic, and degenerative disease processes and the differences between them. 
 Language Arts Standard 1-- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions. 
 Language Arts Standard 8 -- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; listens in order to understand a speaker's topic, purpose and perspective; conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being discussed. 
Grades 9-12
 Historical Understanding Standard 2 -- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Analyzes the influences specific ideas and beliefs had on a period of history and specifies how events might have been different in the absence of those ideas and beliefs; understands that change and continuity are equally probable and natural; knows how to evaluate the credibility and authenticity of historical sources. 
 United States History Standard 16 -- Understands how the rise of corporations, heavy industry, and mechanized farming transformed American society. Benchmarks: Understands the development of business in the late 19th century; understands issues associated with urban growth in the late 19th century; understands influences on economic conditions in various regions of the country; understands the factors leading to the conservation movement of the late 19th century; understands how rapid increase in population and industrial growth in urban areas influenced the environment. 
 Geography Standard 6 -- Understands that culture and experience influence people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmark: Knows ways in which people's changing views of places and regions reflect cultural change. 
 Geography Standard 12 -- Understands the patterns of human settlement and their causes. Benchmarks: Understands how the functions of cities today differ from those of towns and villages and cities in earlier times; knows the shape of cities in the United States and factors that influence urban morphology. 
 Health Standard 8 -- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how the immune system functions to prevent or combat disease; understands the social, economic, and political effects of disease on individuals, families, and communities. 
 Language Arts Standard 1 -- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; writes expository compositions; writes reflective compositions 
 Language Arts Standard 8 -- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmark: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions. 

        
How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (93%); CITIES (93%); EPIDEMICS (93%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); WRITERS (72%) American History; Digital Media and Culture; Disease; Europe; Geography; Global History; Historic Preservation; History of North America; Human Systems; Media Studies; Multimedia; Science; Social Studies; The Industrial Revolution; Visual Literacy

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



437 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Market Turmoil Has Taken a Toll on Big Pension Funds

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
America's biggest pension funds lost ground in the first quarter and are likely to require larger contributions from their corporate sponsors this year, joining the ranks of homeowners, lenders and others hurt by the recent turmoil in the financial markets.
 At the same time, though, some of America's biggest companies have begun taking steps to shield their pension funds from market volatility by moving out of stocks. Such a step has long been predicted by economists, but was shunned until now by the vast majority of pension investment managers. 
 ''This trend is 11 years in the making,'' said Paul C. Morgan, an investment adviser with Evaluation Associates, a consulting firm owned by the Milliman actuarial firm, which issued the pension study on Tuesday. 
 Pension funds that made major shifts away from equities last year included those at mature manufacturing companies like General Motors, Ford, Boeing and Deere. Their plans have been a source of concern to policy makers, because the federal government insures the benefits, and if a plan of that size failed, it could swamp the federal insurance system. 
 Because of market forces, Milliman estimated the 100 biggest companies might need to make total contributions this year at close to twice their 2007 level, even as their businesses come under pressure because of a slowing economy.
 Mr. Morgan predicted that more companies would join the shift out of equities in the coming years, aiming to protect their pension funds from interest-rate swings when the baby boomers retire in huge numbers and draw their benefits, pulling billions of dollars out of the funds. 
 ''We believe this shift is permanent and the trend will continue,'' Mr. Morgan said. He dismissed concerns that pension funds stampeding to unload their stocks could cause a bear market, though. ''This isn't Armaggedon,'' he said. 
 Pension funds were dealt a double whammy in the first quarter of 2008, according to Milliman, which studied the pension funds of America's 100 largest corporations. First, the funds lost billions of dollars when stock prices tumbled in January, wiping out in just one month nearly all the gains achieved in 2007. 
 Second, the funds have been hurt by the Federal Reserve Board's urgent efforts to bolster the American economy by cutting interest rates. Most actors in the economy rebound when interest rates fall, but pension funds tend to weaken. This is because the total value of the benefits they have promised rises when interest rates fall, much as bond prices do. That means companies must set aside more money to keep their pension plans funded when interest rates fall than when rates climb. 
 Corporate America had to cope with the same double whammy in 2002. That time, the pension mismatch was so severe that it killed off the plans at prominent companies like United Airlines. It has taken five years for the corporate pension sector to recover from that disaster. Only in 2007 did the 100 largest plans finally begin to show an aggregate surplus, thanks to five years of investment gains and the rise in interest rates last year. 
 John W. Ehrhardt, a consulting actuary and principal at Milliman, said companies reined in their pension contributions in 2006 and 2007 because they wanted to see how major changes in the federal pension laws and the accounting rules would affect them. The big companies in Milliman's study put just $27 billion into their plans last year. 
 With the legal and accounting uncertainties now resolved, he said, companies were likely to step up their pension contributions, even if they did not suffer big losses in January. He said the 100 largest companies might put a total $45 billion into their plans this year, as they did in 2005. 
 Mr. Morgan said companies had been thinking for several years about stripping some of the risk out of their pension funds by weaning them off stocks, but only last year did some of the largest corporations take the plunge. Milliman found that the biggest funds shed about $60 billion worth of stocks in 2007. They replaced the equities with fixed-income instruments, like bonds, combined with certain types of derivatives, which are supposed to make the shift less expensive. 
 For decades, most pension managers considered equity investments the most efficient way to prepare for workers' retirements, because equities have historically returned more than bonds. But after the technology crash and the painful bear market that followed, a growing number of economists began to dispute that approach. They argued that a pension accounting rule issued in the 1980s was biased in favor of equity investments, and was improperly keeping the tremendous volatility of equity-laden pension funds off corporate balance sheets. 
 That accounting rule has been changed. Companies with pension funds are now required to show the deficits, or surpluses, in their pension funds on their balance sheets every year. Those with large concentrations of stocks in their pension funds have had to show investors, for the first time, just how much stock market volatility they have been bearing, relative to the size of the business itself. 
 It was not a pretty sight, especially at mature troubled companies where the pension funds had grown bigger than the market value of the companies themselves. 
 Such companies appear to have begun reducing the equity in their pension funds last year. That, in turn, should reduce the volatility on their balance sheets. 
 Along with some big manufacturing concerns, financial services companies like Prudential and Hartford are shifting to fixed-income strategies, reflecting their comfort with the derivatives involved. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: A SETBACK FOR RETIREMENT FUNDS: After improving throughout 2007, pension fund assets have fallen this year, hurt by falling interest rates and stock prices. Still, some companies are not as exposed to market fluctuations because they reduced their equity exposure last year. (Source: Milliman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (92%); TRENDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); BONDS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



438 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON THE CHEAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2226 words

HEADLINE: Don't Hate Me Because I'm Solvent

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio 

 BODY:
 IN these times of mortgage crisis and credit card debt, of people living over their heads and losing their homes, it may be instructive to visit David and Gina Giffels, proud owners of an exquisitely renovated 1913 Tudor house, with six fireplaces, a solarium and a billiards room, which is well within their means, in part because they paid $65,000.
 It is true, this was 12 years ago here in Akron, as the city was struggling to come out of its Rust Belt doldrums, and at the time the house was not so exquisite. It was, in fact, as the couple learned only at the closing, about to be condemned. There were large holes in the roof, various furry woodland animals in residence, a barely functional heating and plumbing system. The roof over the master bedroom leaked so badly that the previous owner had placed 55 aluminum baking pans on the floor to catch the rain. Passers-by, glimpsing the house through trees and brush, assumed it was deserted. 
 Saving this house has taken David Giffels, a columnist at The Akron Beacon Journal and sometime rock musician, and his wife, Gina, a special education teacher, 12 years. And the renovation, most of which Mr. Giffels has done on his own, is not finished. The strain on their marriage, as Mr. Giffels admits in his sweet and funny book, ''All the Way Home: Building a Family in a Falling-Down House,'' which will be published next month by HarperCollins, has not been inconsiderable. Weekends, vacations, time Mr. Giffels might have spent with his two children, have been given over to such projects as removing, cleaning, and re-caulking the 733 windowpanes in the house. (He counted.) 
 On the other hand, except for the mortgage on this house, the Giffelses have no debt. This is not only because they have done so much of the renovation themselves, but because they do not have and never have had credit cards. Their feeling, anachronistic as the servants' call button in their dining room, is that if you don't have the money for something, you don't buy it. It is for this reason that none of the six fireplaces in their house are functional: they do not have the money to fix them. If this sounds extremely practical, you should know that the story of the Giffelses and the falling down house is as romantic as they come, tied up with not just the love of a house, but the love of a city. Ask Mr. Giffels (who once tried to evict squirrels from the house by playing guitar really loudly) how much money he's put into it over the years, and you'll get the idea. 
 ''What I put into it was about eight ounces of my heart,'' Mr. Giffels says. ''It's like asking, 'Well, what do you have in Gina, what have you spent on Gina over the years? Gina is not a commodity; neither is this. It's not something that we really bought, it's something that came into our lives.'' 
 He is 44, the son of an engineer, married for 19 years, and a lifelong resident of Akron. He may also be the only person in the known universe who has both written for ''Beavis and Butt-Head'' and names ''It's A Wonderful Life'' as his favorite movie. Mr. Giffels identifies with the film's hero, George Bailey. 
 ''He is deeply committed to his hometown, in a really sincere and responsible way and I do feel that way, especially as a newspaper columnist,'' Mr. Giffels says. ''I love Akron, I love Akron. The Goodyear tire company is headquartered here; it's a place where a man would get up in the morning in Goodyear Heights, get in his car with Goodyear tires, drive down Goodyear Boulevard past the Goodyear Middle School, with the Goodyear blimp overheard. There is something about that that is like it was written for an animated feature, which I love. It's so quintessentially weird in the most endearing way possible.''
 A broken-down, deserted house also figures in ''It's A Wonderful Life,'' you might remember.
 Gina Giffels, who is 43 and whose father worked two jobs to take care of his wife and seven children, also has a favorite movie with a distinctive house. Hers is ''Wuthering Heights,'' not when things are going well with the inhabitants, but in its fabulous decline. Ms. Giffels identifies with the heroine, Cathy. 
 ''Cathy loved the finer things and I did, too,'' she says, sitting with her husband in the now-spotless solarium, ''My parents struggled. We shared bath water and never got anything new. My mom is completely frugal to this day. ''
 The couple, who married after college, never had a lot of money. Mr. Giffels's first newspaper job, at The Medina County Gazette, paid, as he recalls, about $17,000. Their first home, a two-bedroom that they bought in 1990, cost $40,000. When Mr. Giffels contributed to ''Beavis & Butt-Head,'' he did not make what screenwriters quantify as car money or house money -- he said he earned about $300 an episode. In 1996, when Ms. Giffels was pregnant with their second child and they were desperately searching for more space, they found the falling-down house in Highland Square, a pedestrian-friendly, ethnically and economically mixed neighborhood that is home to many small shops and restaurants. 
 ''It revealed itself as an abandoned castle might,'' Mr. Giffels writes. ''Draped in shadows and ivy, even more mysterious up close than it had been from behind the overgrown yard. Just a few yards from a busy street, we seemed to have entered a different place entirely, darker and cooler, radiating something like myth.''
 A rogue wisteria in the yard had eaten its way through the side of the house where the chimney met the wood, and was, Mr. Giffels would discover later, wending its way across the attic floor. Inside, a harp stood in a darkened, junk-filled living room. The smell of cat urine was pervasive. The house was not, as everyone had thought, deserted. The inhabitant was an elderly woman, bent over with osteoporosis, who seemed lost in a world of her own. When the Giffelses walked into the solarium, they saw a ceiling rotted to the laths, as well as two chandeliers. As a couple who loved tragic ruins, they didn't have a chance. 
 ''It was full of somebody else's life, stacked and stacked and stacked, like a saga,'' Mr. Giffels says. ''So many questions are rising just in the first stepping across the threshold and they aren't the right questions, the traditional questions. My questions were, How tangled up is this story going to be? Not, I wonder if the plumbing is copper and what state it's in.''
 Is it possible Mr. Giffels loved this house more because it was a wreck?
 ''I did,'' he says. ''I took a whole side road in the book about my love for old decrepit buildings. Some of my most profound coming-of-age moments took place in old B. F. Goodrich factories that we had figured out how to break into. There was a recognition that somebody had thrown away something that was to me still valuable and solid and beautiful, and part of the reason was that it was decayed and neglected and had taken on that patina of real life. ''When I first started to go see music,'' he continued, ''there was a punk rock bar called the Bank, because it was a former bank. The vault door was still there. The kids would get into the old president's office, which was mahogany, and smoke pot. The bathrooms were marble, the finest urinals you've ever seen. It had been reclaimed by the underground. The establishment didn't need that bank anymore, but the kids in rock bands did.''
 The falling-down house had beenon the market for a year and a half, during which time the asking price had come down from $165,000 to $110,000 -- close enough to their budget of $100,000. But the contractor the Giffelses hired told them they would need to put in at least $60,000 to make the house habitable. They bid $65,000. To their astonishment, they got the house. At the closing they learned why: the Akron Health Department was demanding a new roof and repairs to all the entryway steps. 
 Thanks to improvements they had made on their old home, they were able to sell it for $88,000 doubling their purchase price in six years. They still needed to take out a $55,000 home improvement loan, for the plumbing, electricity and roof repairs to make the house habitable. After the closing, they had another surprise: The elderly owner (whose name Mr. Giffels changes in his book) was still in residence. A few days later, a daughter came to fetch her. The woman left the house, Mr. Giffels writes, ''her arm raised overhead, holding a clothes hanger draped with a fur coat, or rather, the shoulders of a fur coat, trailed by the mangy tatters of what once had been the front, back, and sleeves of a fur coat.''
 The Giffelses had their own heartbreak: On the day they were to close on the house, Ms. Giffels had a miscarriage. Nine months after moving into the broken-down house, she had another. Their doctor reassured the couple that the miscarriages had nothing to do with the stress of taking on a house that had been ignored for decades. But it was stressful.
 Their son, Evan, was 18 months old when the family bought the falling-down house. Ms. Giffels insisted that lead paint be removed from any room Evan might be in, which led to a frantic marathon of preparation while he stayed with his grandparents. Although the initial renovation was done by professionals before the family moved in and took just a month, the remaining work, done primarily by Mr. Giffels, was never-ending. And Mr. Giffels was not merely an amateur who was teaching himself how to lay brick and do plasterwork with the aid of self-help books, he was a perfectionist. Painted door hinges were a moral affront to him -- rather than go to bed with his wife when she asked him to in the times after the miscarriages, he'd work on a project. 
 Early in the renovation, Mr. Giffels and the contractor stumbled upon a treasure, $14,000 in $20 bills, wrapped in bank wrappers stamped March 15, 1930, a time when the ownership of the house was unclear. For the most part, however, the house was an ongoing financial drain -- every week, $100 would be spent at the hardware or paint store. 
 Mr. Giffels was an artful scavenger. A basement bathroom includes a toilet and mirror from a house that had been demolished next door; slate from a friend's demolished foyer; leftover baseboard from a renovation by one of Mr. Giffels's brothers. They also had the help of family. Mr. Giffels's father, an accomplished amateur furniture maker, replaced the rotted kitchen sink counter and cabinets with an L-shaped counter (nothing showy: fiberboard with laminate) with poplar cabinets and drawers. 
 How long did projects like re-caulking 733 window panes take?
 ''Years,'' Mr. Giffels says. ''This is where I'm glad I wrote the book 10 years later, it gave me a perspective of all the time it cost: All my vacation time, all my possible spare time, a number of years of my children's growing up I gave to my children's house. And once you get in it, you can't get out, you can't sell a house in that condition. When all of a sudden you realize what it is costing you in your life, it's too late.''
 The Giffels children, Evan and Lia, are now 12 and 9. The work on their house is incomplete; the basement billiards room, with its brick fireplace, remains unfinished. Looking back on the renovation, David and Gina Giffels do not think they would do anything differently. If somebody gave them $100,000, they wouldn't say, ''Let's go to Paris,'' they say, they'd put it into the house.
 Does Mr. Giffels still watch ''It's A Wonderful Life''?
 Sure, he says, every year around Christmas. The couple finds an evening when they're free and they both watch their favorite movies and cry. 
 And what part of his movie makes Mr. Giffels cry?
 The final scene, he says, when Harry Bailey raises a glass and says, ''To my big brother George, the richest man in town.''
 Preserving Sanity as Well as History: Tips for Taking on a Falling-Down House
 David Giffels's tips for taking on a falling-down house.
 1. Invest in a heavy-duty vacuum. ''In a renovation if your mess gets ahead of you, it's anarchy,'' Mr. Giffels says. A heavy-duty vacuum will pick up nails, small chunks of wood, sawdust, and mud. Mr. Giffels uses the Craftsman 16 gallon Wet/Dry Vac from Sears. 
 2. Identify and befriend your local house demolition contractors. 
 3. Exploit the sweat equity of family members, but remember that if somebody gives you a day of work, you have to give one back down the line. 
 4. Do not be afraid to try things you have never done before. Study how-to books. Mr. Giffels learned from both the Time-Life and Sunset home repair series.
 5. ''Anyone who paints a hinge spends one day in purgatory for each hinge that she or he has painted.''
 6. ''Every single person you ask how to get rid of squirrels will have a different method they swear is foolproof, and none of them work.'' 
 7. Do not begin one project until you finish another.
 8. ''Be cognizant of the fact the last 10 percent of any project takes as long as the first 90 percent -- it's all in the details.''
 9. Regarding preservation of family life: ''Every time I re-do a room which is in a state of repair, I write our initials, DG + GG, on the walls to remind myself of why we are doing this.''
 10. ''Allow yourself to believe that some things can wait, even if you don't believe it.'' JOYCE WADLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOUGH LOVE: David Giffels, with his son, Evan
wife, Gina, and daughter, Lia, admits his obsession with the old house was hard on his family. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F5)
D.I.Y. COMMANDO: David Giffels plastered, painted and pounded his falling-down house into submission. The billiards room, left, in 1996, has yet to be tackled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F1)
EXTREME FIXER UPPER: Today, the entry hall of the Giffels family's Akron house, far left, is pristine. When the house was purchased 12 years ago, the solarium, inset left and below, was rotted
the woodwork over the dining room fireplace, inset bottom right and lower right, had collapsed
 and water damage had destroyed a bedroom, inset bottom left and lower left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, RIGHT, BELOW AND BELOW RIGHT, PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MARRIAGE (75%); WRITERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (66%); POP & ROCK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: All the Way Home: Building a Family in a Falling-Down House (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



439 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: The Troubles of City Employers Are Not Trickling Down, Yet

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The financial troubles plaguing some of New York City's biggest employers have not yet cut into the paychecks of city residents or curtailed consumer spending in the city, the latest tax collection figures show.
 In March, the amount of taxes withheld from New Yorkers' pay was $34 million higher -- up more than 7 percent -- than in March 2007, according to the city comptroller's office. The amount of local sales taxes collected last month was up even more, about 13 percent, according to the State Department of Taxation and Finance.
 Those gains stand in stark contrast to the sharp drop in taxes collected from corporations, especially banks. So far in the city's fiscal year, which ends June 30, the amount of general corporate tax collected is down about 2 percent, while bank tax collections are down 29 percent, according to the comptroller's office. 
 ''It's kind of eerie at this point because it feels that there's so much momentum in the economy, but we know there's this underlying weakness,'' said Marcia J. Van Wagner, the deputy comptroller for budget.
 The situation is reminiscent of the late 1980s, when the city's economy ''kept clicking'' until 1989, two years after the stock market crashed in October 1987, Ms. Van Wagner said. A lag like that is not unusual when Wall Street is the primary source of the downturn, she said, because cuts in employment and pay at the big financial firms do not show up immediately in government statistics.
 Even though there has been trouble at some of the biggest investment banks, including Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns, the year-end bonuses the firms paid out were still very large, Ms. Van Wagner said. The prospects for 2008 bonuses have city officials worried.
 ''I'm concerned about next fiscal year,'' she said. ''The sun isn't coming out for any of these guys yet,'' she said, referring to the financial firms. ''We could be feeling the effects of the weakened business tax base for a while. Who knows at this point what the impact on jobs is going to be?''
 One of the few bright spots on the corporate side has been in taxes collected from hedge funds and other unincorporated businesses, Ms. Van Wagner said. That total is nearly 20 percent higher this fiscal year over the last one, she said.
 George Sweeting, a deputy director of the city's Independent Budget Office, said the drop in corporate taxes ''probably indicates that a significant number of taxpayers are recognizing that they made less money in '07 than '06.''
 According to state data, the amount of personal income tax paid by city residents rose by almost 15 percent in March to about $460 million, compared with about $400 million in March 2007. Local sales tax collections reached $1.24 billion in March, almost $150 million more than in March 2007, those figures show. 
 Some of that increased spending is attributable to the tourists, many of them from overseas, who have flocked to New York, Ms. Van Wagner said. She noted that collections of hotel taxes in the city were up 16.5 percent, a gain of $28 million in revenue, so far this fiscal year.
 Still, economists said, spending by tourists was unlikely to offset the effects of a sustained downturn on Wall Street, especially if it brought an end to the boom in the city's housing market.
 Already, taxes collected on the real estate transactions in the city are $300 million lower than last fiscal year, Ms. Van Wagner said. She said she expected to see another decline in real estate tax collections for March when those figures are released next week.
 ''We would expect to see the sales tax weaken a bit as the real estate market softens,'' because people will buy fewer pieces of furniture, rugs and other things to outfit their new homes, she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers carrying their bags in SoHo on Wednesday. Consumer spending in New York rose last month, with tourists' help. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARY CONOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (65%); LAYOFFS (64%); INCOME TAX (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



440 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Prepping Children for the 9 to 5

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
MANY years ago, my son was sitting in his booster seat at the kitchen table, scribbling madly on a legal pad with a crayon. When I asked him what he wanted for breakfast he waved me off with a shake of his head. ''I working Mommy or my editor will be mad with me,'' he said. 
 He was parroting me, of course, and it was the first time I realized that my feelings about work could color his. So I set out to change my tune. No more shooing him away with explanations like: ''There won't be any more toys ever again, if I don't finish this article.'' No more describing my writing as the chore that prevented me from doing what I really wanted to do (which, from his point of view, would surely be to play with him).
 Instead, since then, I have talked about work as the linchpin in the construct of my life, giving him new words to parrot -- ones like ''excitement'' and ''satisfaction'' and ''joy.'' 
 That toddler is now a teenager, and part of a generation whose members are so convinced that work should be personally fulfilling that they see photocopying as beneath them. Any generalization has its exceptions (my son, I should note, in the interest of family harmony, works far harder in high school than I ever did.) But on the whole the workers of Generation Y, the eldest of which are almost 28, have a sharply different attitude toward work than their parents did. 
 And that's probably their parents' doing. 
 This time of year, when middle schoolers are about to mob offices nationwide for Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day, the subject of children and work rises particularly close to the surface. Not to mention that college seniors will soon grab diplomas and start their first ''real'' jobs. But that raises a question: Which incarnation of work should we be taking our children to? The one that is fulfilling, uplifting and ego-affirming, or the one that is grueling, taxing and just plain boring? We want them to see this as an adventure, yet be prepared for difficulty so setbacks don't make them retreat. We want them to seek their passion, but let's face it, we also want them to do something that will pay the rent. 
 I am not the only parent to emphasize the joys of worthwhile work. ''What I want most for my children is for them to find themselves in their work,'' said Elizabeth Lluch, the editor in chief of the WS Publishing Group in San Diego. ''I want them to find work that makes them feel good about themselves, helps them define who they are, and helps them find peace within themselves.'' Work, she added, ''is not about making a bunch of money, but finding a little niche for oneself in a world that is very fast-paced, busy and impersonal.''
 Molly Bingham, who lectures and writes about choosing a career, advises parents to ''ask their kids 'What do you do that you love so much that you lose track of time?' '' That passion (the word comes up constantly in conversations about children and work nowadays) should form the core of any future career search, Ms. Bingham said. 
 That makes sense, but also makes me worry. Nothing about the working world is that straightforward, and lately I have been hearing from parents who have preached the gospel of fulfillment and are seeing some unexpected results. 
 ''Do you have any advice for me?'' one reader asked in an e-mail message. She described her daughter, who will be graduating from college next month, as paralyzed by the fear that whatever job she takes would not be her passion and would therefore be wrong. ''How can I help her find her life's calling?'' the mother wondered. 
 At a conference recently, Carol Bryce-Buchanan, the director of development for the Families and Work Institute, shared a different wrinkle of that concern. Her daughter, also a college senior, recently found herself as one of two finalists for a coveted job, but lost it to the more experienced candidate. ''She seemed ready to give up after one setback,'' said Ms. Bryce-Buchanan, whose work includes helping the Ms. Foundation create the more inclusive Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day. Surprised at her daughter's lack of resilience, Ms. Bryce-Buchanan found herself giving the most elemental job-hunting advice, telling her that finding work, particularly in a sluggish economy, is a process that takes ''months and months and months and months.''
 Meanwhile, Eric Papp, the 24-year-old founder of Generation Y Consulting in Tampa, Fla., recalled how he had run into a friend who was dressed in gym clothes having just worked out in the middle of the afternoon. ''I asked how his job was going and he said it was going well but he had to quit,'' Mr. Papp recounted. ''He said 'It interfered with my social life. I had to work weekends.' '' 
 None of this surprises Daniel H. Pink, an author who specializes in navigating the workplace. ''This generation has been spoon-fed self-esteem cereal for the past 22 years,'' he said. ''They've been told it's all about them -- what they want, what they are passionate about, what they find fulfilling. That's not a bad message, but it's also not a complete message.''
 Mr. Pink's new book is designed to fix that. ''The Adventures of Johnny Bunko'' (Riverhead Trade) is a career guide cum manga comic designed to appeal to the newest entrants to the workplace. During the illustrated tale, the title character learns six lessons that Gen Y workers might not have fully absorbed at home. 
 To Mr. Papp's friend, Rule No. 3 might apply: It's Not About You. 
 ''Yes, work should be fulfilling, but there are different kinds of fulfillment,'' Mr. Pink said. ''There's a deep sense of satisfaction that comes from serving someone else well -- serving the customer well, giving a client something they didn't know they needed.'' 
 To Ms. Bryce-Buchanan's daughter, there's Rule No. 4: Persistence Trumps Talent. 
 ''We need to return to stressing doggedness,'' Mr. Pink said. He has made a point to do that with his own children, who are 11, 9 and 5, so that they do not hit their first career bump and crumple. ''Now when they ask for help they say 'Yes I've already tried harder and yes, I've already tried a different way,' '' he said. 
 And for my reader and her daughter, Rule No. 1: There Is No Plan. ''It's nice to believe you can map out every step ahead of time and end up where you want,'' Mr. Pink wrote in his book. ''But that's a fantasy. The world changes. Ten years from now, your job might be in India. Your industry might not even exist. And you'll change, too. You might discover a hidden talent. Take a job because it will let you do interesting work in a cool place,'' even if you ''don't know exactly where it will lead.'' 
 What appears to be a complex contradiction, he said -- that work can be glorious but grinding, worthwhile and wretched, a place you can't wait to get to and can't wait to leave, something you love but hate to do -- is actually the simple truth, and therefore the best message we can give our children. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL HOROWITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); GENERATION Y (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



441 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Facing The End Back Where It All Began

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Indianapolis 

 BODY:
 The end of the road at least was a place where Isiah Thomas would never be singularly cast as a failure, much less one of historical proportion. He grew up in Chicago, but dribbled onto the national radar in basketball-loving Indiana, where he won a national championship in 1981 under the doctrinaire tutelage of Bob Knight.
 ''Feels like yesterday,'' Thomas said of the rolling landscape leading to Bloomington, about 50 miles southwest of here. But that was because he had gone there Tuesday night to visit his son, a student at Indiana University, touching one of the bases on his way to being thrown out in New York. 
 After all the determined talk in recent weeks about soldiering on, even as his nameplate was removed from the team president's door, Thomas had to all but admit he was coaching his last game for the Knicks on Wednesday night. Not surprisingly, it was a 132-123 defeat to the Pacers, giving him a 23-59, Larry Brown-matching season before he faces his expected executioner, Donnie Walsh.
 ''I'm not used to being on the bottom,'' Thomas said before the morning shoot-around at Conseco Fieldhouse. ''However, this is the bottom and this is how you get treated on the bottom.''
 If there is a place for Thomas in the Knicks' organization until the matter of his contract is resolved, it will be something akin to a scouting assignment to Slovenia. By now, Walsh surely understands that the New York basketball community does not want more rationalizations from Thomas, or, worse, postulations for the future.
 ''Obviously, that's there every day,'' Walsh said of the fans' antipathy while remaining coy on Thomas's fate.
 For Thomas's part, he seemed to know it was time to stop pretending he might have a meaningful role with the team he tried to hastily remake upon replacing Scott Layden in the front office in December 2003, beginning with the acquisition of a pseudo star, Stephon Marbury. It was far from his last error of commission, even if he would rather get a root canal than admit to anything specific.
 ''Whatever sport you choose, there are some times when you get it right and some times when you don't,'' Thomas said in the morning. He spoke in his customary deliberate manner, the long pauses made all the more awkward by the circumstances, with one silver lining. Walsh's injection of professionalism into the organization allowed Thomas to speak one last day as a Knicks front man without a public relations attendant furiously recording every word for the Orwellian headmasters of Madison Square Garden.
 He struck a familiar theme he is understandably proud of, the perspective gained from the impoverished life he was born into to the affluent one he has now, including many Knicks millions still owed. ''I'll take where I am today,'' he said, adding, ''I'm not looking for sympathy or anything like that.''
 He won't get much, not in New York, though I will admit to feeling no joy as the most accomplished little man in N.B.A. history became the target of consuming ridicule and scorn. 
 But sympathy? Difficult to manufacture after the Anucha Browne Sanders trial last September, Thomas a central figure in that repulsive workplace unveiling. Years ago, he was a committed leader of the players union, the same thorn in the side of the establishment that he was on the court to Jordan and Bird and Magic. Thomas made great contributions to his sport, but then, so did Lenny Wilkens, another Hall of Fame point guard, a New York legend. And Thomas treated Wilkens shabbily after hiring him as coach, not just capriciously firing him but emasculating him along the way.
 There was no need, but we do learn more about true character when a man is empowered, in control of people's careers and lives.
 Before the game, Thomas talked about the support he had received from friends around the league, but by now there must be more sworn enemies. Will that make him unemployable in his beloved N.B.A. when he checks around to see if he can, as Chuck Daly likes to say, land on his feet after falling out of a plane?
 Notoriety is not in itself a career-killer. Remember, the righteous New York City jury that wanted Thomas sent to Guantanamo for his crimes against basketball is the same congregation that celebrated Latrell Sprewell, who exhibited misanthropic tendencies before, during and after his time with the Knicks.
 ''I'm definitely having my low point, but you move through these things, none of these things is permanent,'' Thomas said. Except the record, horrific and indelible, and compiled on one of the grand basketball stages. 
 After the game, in his third, last and briefest farewell address, Thomas said: ''I'll wait to see what Donnie has to say. He's our boss.'' For how long? My suggestion to Thomas would be to hang around the Knicks, out of the way and invisible, until a buyout can be negotiated and to fall out of his next plane and into a rehabilitative coaching job in a place where he remains famous and marketable.
 That would be Europe. And since Marbury has already expressed a desire to finish his career there, Thomas should take him along. Please.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A friend of the former N.B.A. referee Tim Donaghy, above, pleaded guilty Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); INDIANA PACERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%) INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); SLOVENIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



442 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: More Steps Urged On Interest Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Inflation and economic growth have slowed slightly in China, the government announced Wednesday, saying price controls had limited the cost of many essential items and exports to the United States had weakened. 
 But the latest figures, for inflation in March and for economic output in the first quarter, also showed that prices were still rising at an uncomfortably swift pace and the economy still threatened to overheat.
 Economists at several Western investment banks issued research notes on Wednesday calling for China to increase interest rates further. A wide range of the heavily regulated borrowing rates in this country are lagging well behind inflation, giving companies and individuals the incentive to borrow.
 ''It is still too early for the government to claim victory for their inflation battle,'' Hong Liang, an analyst with Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong, wrote to clients.
 A spokesman for China's National Bureau of Statistics, Li Xiaochao, said officials would ''continue to implement sound financial policies and tight monetary policies'' to curb inflation and pursue balanced growth.
 For the third time this year, China also ordered commercial banks to set aside more of their deposits as reserves, increasing the share by 0.5 percentage point, to 16 percent.
 Consumer prices were 8.3 percent higher in March than a year earlier. That was slightly slower than the inflation rate in February, which reached a nearly 11-year high of 8.7 percent, in part because snowstorms late in January and early in February damaged many crops and interfered with the distribution of goods. 
 Economic output was 10.6 percent higher in the first quarter than a year earlier, down from 11.7 percent for the fourth quarter. The latest figures mean that the inflation rate, which has nearly tripled in the last year, is causing distress for families -- a worry for Chinese leaders who have placed a premium on social stability and have begun allowing China's currency, the yuan, to rise more quickly against the dollar in hope of making imports cheaper. 
 The governor of the Chinese central bank, Zhou Xiaochuan, has said there is room for further increases in interest rates and the value of the currency. 
 A consumer, Wu Xiao Mei, went shopping at a grocery store Wednesday with her young son in Taizhou, a town in the eastern province of Zhejiang, and voiced dismay. ''Everything is much more expensive than last year,'' she said. ''The price of milk powder for my boy has doubled.'' 
 Food prices in China have risen 21 percent in the last year, despite controls imposed in January on cooking oil and some grains. But there are signs that inflation is starting to spread, with housing prices up 6.6 percent this year through March.
 Despite controls on the prices of gasoline and diesel fuel, cost increases in goods and services purchased by companies are accelerating. Producer prices are up 8 percent through March, compared with 6.6 percent through February. Rises in producer prices often foretell higher consumer inflation.
 Stephen Green, an economist in the Shanghai office of the Standard Chartered Bank, said the true Chinese economic growth rate in the first quarter might have slowed a little more than authorities acknowledged.
 Despite repeated denials from government economists, a variety of Western economic studies have suggested that the Chinese government smoothes its economic data -- exaggerating performance in weak quarters and understating growth in booms to present an image of stability.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Inflation in China has picked up in recent months. (Sources: China National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GASOLINE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); MILK (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); WEATHER (64%); DIESEL FUEL (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



443 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Dispute on Treatment Of Children After Raid

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and GRETEL C. KOVACH; Kirk Johnson reported from Denver, and Gretel C. Kovach from San Angelo and Eldorado, Tex.

DATELINE: SAN ANGELO, Tex. 

 BODY:
Texas child welfare officials and parents of many of the more than 400 children seized in a raid on a polygamist religious compound in West Texas differ sharply on how the children are faring after two weeks in state custody.
 Hearings begin on Thursday in what could be one of the largest child custody proceedings in United States history. 
 A spokesman for the State Department of Family and Protective Services said Wednesday that the children, most of whom are now at the San Angelo Coliseum, a midsize multipurpose arena, were doing well, eating good food and happily playing ball on a local football field under adult supervision.
 Some mothers, however, painted a different picture. Separated from their offspring on Monday so that the older children could be questioned about abuse that may have occurred at the compound, the mothers said their children, who had previously been held inside an old military facility called Fort Concho, had wanted only to go home. Colds and a wave of chickenpox had swept through the fort's close quarters, they said.
 ''Life at Fort Concho was very much like a concentration camp,'' said one mother, a woman who gave only a first name, Amy, in speaking with a reporter.
 The question asked by both sides in the tempestuous, complicated aftermath of the raid this month in Eldorado, about 45 miles from here, is what is best for the children who have already been subjected to the trauma of the removal from their homes. 
 But answers to that question are tied up in emotion, politics and religion, all set against what legal experts say is Texas's underfinanced and overextended state child welfare system. 
 Dozens of lawyers from around the state have arrived here to represent the various sides -- some being trained in child welfare law only upon arrival. Details of how the hearings will work were still being ironed out late Wednesday, but the rhetoric on both sides is already honed.
 The Department of Family and Protective Services spokesman, Darrell Azar, said the state would argue that all the children should remain in state custody for the time being.
 ''We have evidence that some children have been sexually abused and that all would be at risk if we returned them to the compound at this time,'' Mr. Azar said.
 ''We intend to show that there has been a practice of grooming or conditioning young girls to be the spiritual wives of older men and to have sex with them,'' he added. ''The male children are at risk because they're being trained to grow up to be sexual predators, so it's the potential for abuse.''
 One lawyer who is representing some family members said the state was trying to tarnish all the cases and the families, who belong to the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with broad-brush attacks that will fail in any fair court process that looks at the children individually, as the process requires. The F.L.D.S. broke off from the Mormon Church over polygamy after the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, based in Salt Lake City, disavowed the practice in 1890.
 ''As long as they continue to look at them en masse, and judge a society, a culture and a religion, it's hard to believe they will be dealt with fairly,'' said the lawyer, Jim Bradshaw, of Salt Lake City. ''So the attempt is going to be to individually examine each of the families -- I am very confident if that happens the children will all be returned.''
 Experts in child welfare said the burden of having to detach about 500 state workers to deal with the Eldorado cases was already rippling through a system whose caseload is among the nation's highest and per-child spending levels among its lowest.
 ''Right this minute, the kids in San Angelo are getting the very best that the state has to offer in terms of attention and energy,'' said Scott McCown, director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a research group in Austin that focuses on low-income families. ''But in the long run, it is going to be difficult to serve those children, and in the short run, those services come at the cost of children in places like Dallas and Houston.'' 
 A 2004 study by the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan economic and social policy research group, ranked Texas 47th in the nation in child welfare spending, measured against its population. Spending increases by the Legislature in 2005 and 2007 have helped, Mr. McCown and several other experts said, but not enough rebuild an overextended system.
 An equally important issue, other child welfare experts said, is that the children from the raid have been thrown into what for them is an alien culture. 
 ''They don't depend on the outside world; they are very self-contained,'' Shannon Price, director of Diversity Foundation, a group that helps boys who have been pushed out of the F.L.D.S. communities in Hildale, Utah, and Colorado City, Ariz. Ms. Price spent several days in Eldorado advising Texas officials. She said she told them that the children would be comfortable with ''fundamental toys, very hands-on, involving lots of dexterity.''
 ''Rag dolls might be fine, if dressed modestly,'' she said, ''but no Barbie dolls.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); POLYGAMY (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELDORADO POLYGAMIST SECT (79%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); LAWYERS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); SEX OFFENSES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



444 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Not Much of a Watchdog

DATELINE: It is probably safe to say that regulation 

 BODY:
-- especially when it comes to its friends in business and industry -- is one of the Bush administration's least favorite government responsibilities. So it should come as no surprise that even as the financial sector's recklessness is tipping the economy into crisis, the Securities and Exchange Commission seems to be bending over backward to not discomfit the banks and firms it regulates. 
 As Jenny Anderson reported in The Times last week, Wall Street's watchdog has been rather unzealous in its pursuit of corporate malfeasance since Christopher Cox, the former Republican congressman, took the helm in 2005. 
 Like other regulatory agencies, the S.E.C.'s enforcement division has had its budget cut in recent years and its staffing level has dropped, making it harder to do the necessary work. But staff lawyers also complain of commissioners overruling the findings of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division to water down fines and payments. In one instance, JPMorgan Chase had agreed to pay a $25 million settlement only to have the commissioners overrule the deal, reducing the bill to $2 million. 
 Mr. Cox defends his agency, arguing that last year the S.E.C. brought the most corporate penalty cases in its history. Still, Ms. Anderson reported that penalties against individuals and firms fell by almost half last year, to $505 million. The S.E.C. also ordered companies to give up about $1.1 billion in ill-gotten gains last year, down from $2.4 billion in 2006. Democratic Senators Christopher Dodd and Jack Reed have asked Congressional investigators to look into the S.E.C.'s enforcement operations and particularly the sharp decline in penalties. We are eager to hear what they find out. 
 The Bush administration has belatedly seized on the idea of regulatory reform for financial markets -- but not before the housing crisis and credit crunch have wreaked havoc on the economy and the lives of far too many Americans. Whatever happens with future reform, the White House must ensure that current regulators take their jobs a lot more seriously. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (75%); JACK REED (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



445 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2313 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 RUSSIA STRENGTHENS TIES
 To Separatist Georgia Regions
 Russia said that it was expanding support for two separatist regions in neighboring Georgia and would establish legal connections with the regions' de facto governments. The move falls short of offering official recognition but did alarm the Georgian government, which called on international support to block what an official called Russia's policy of ''creeping annexation.'' PAGE A12
 U.S. LISTS CONDITIONS FOR SUDAN
 The Bush administration could remove Sudan from a United States list of state supporters of terrorism and normalize relations if the Sudanese government agrees among other steps to allow Thai and Nepalese peacekeepers in its Darfur region. Sudan has already promised to permit United Nations peacekeepers to operate within its borders, and human rights advocates and others say it would be a mistake for the United States to offer any new incentives until Sudan carries out that and other pledges. PAGE A16 
 AN OPEN-AIR MOVEMENT
 As a rallying cry, it might lack the impact of ''Remember the Maine.'' But there are movements in Canada and elsewhere around the globe seeking to overturn bans on outdoor clotheslines as an anachronism in this day of environmental concerns, asserting what they like to call the ''right to dry.'' PAGE A6 
 IRAQ RECALLS BASRA COMMANDERS
 The Iraqi government recalled to Baghdad the two security commanders who led the troubled operation in the Southern city of Basra against Shiite militiamen. Although some people close to the commanders saw the government move as a rebuff, officials took pains to try to paint their action as part of the normal sequence of events, saying that both had been in Basra for temporary missions and that the government was not disappointed with the outcome in Basra. PAGE A18
 Tibetans Storm Chinese Embassy A14 
 Reporter Cleared of Charges A16
 NATIONAL
 SAN FRANCISCO PLANS TO CHARGE
 Fees for Greenhouse Emissions
 Air quality regulators in the San Francisco Bay area plan to charge hundreds of businesses in the region for their greenhouse gas emissions. The businesses affected by the fee include petroleum refineries, cement plants and industrial bakeries. The agency setting the fee is stretching its authority under state law to regulate conventional pollutants, an expansion an oil refinery representative called ''questionable.'' PAGE A19
 SPECTATORS FOR A MATING RITE
 Eagleville, Mo., is but a relic of the thriving town it used to be. But for the past few years, another relic of better times -- prairie chickens -- have swooped into town for their annual mating ritual, and with them have flocked ornithologists and amateur birdwatchers eager for a sight. ''You can see things in pictures, it's just not the same,'' said one witness. ''I cried.'' PAGE A19
 BYRD HAS ANSWER FOR DOUBTERS
 Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the longest-serving senator in history, is 90 years old, uses double canes, a walker and sometimes a wheelchair to get around. But he has a ready response for anyone who might question whether he is up to the job of running the Appropriations Committee: ''Shut up.'' PAGE A19 
 IMMIGRANTS ARRESTED AT PLANTS
 More than 280 workers accused of being illegal immigrants were arrested by federal agents in coordinated operations at five plants belonging to Pilgrim's Pride, a major chicken-processing company, in the largest immigration round-up at a workplace this year. The federal prosecutor said some arrests were based on indictments accusing immigrants of presenting Social Security numbers belonging to other people when they were hired at the chicken plants. PAGE A20
 EFFORT TO ALTER 9/11 MEMORIAL FAILS
 An effort to substantially alter Arizona's official 9/11 memorial has failed, ending months of rancorous debate over statements on it that some deemed unpatriotic or irrelevant to the attacks seven years ago. Artists involved in the memorial say it was supposed to evoke the varied emotions engendered by the attacks. PAGE A20
 NEW YORK REPORT
 RADIO ON SCHOOL BUSES
 Prompts a Familiar Debate
 BusRadio is a business that provides just what its name suggests, radio service for buses, specifically school buses. But a lot of parents and school administrators don't like what it also provides -- advertising -- and outrage has led some places to ban the service. The dispute is reminiscent of one nearly two decades ago, when Channel One delivered ad-laden TV news programs to classrooms. PAGE B1
 OLIVE BRANCH IN HARRY POTTER SUIT
 J. K. Rowling held out an olive branch to the man who wants to publish a guide to her Harry Potter books as her copyright infringement trial drew to a close. ''Do your book,'' she said in court, ''but please, change it so it does not take as much of my work.'' The writer of the guide, Steven Jan Vander Ark, broke down sobbing on the witness stand on Tuesday, saying he felt cast out of the ''Harry Potter community'' by Ms. Rowling's lawsuit. PAGE B1
 TAX COLLECTIONS INCREASE
 The financial troubles plaguing some of New York City's biggest employers have not yet cut into the paychecks of city residents or curtailed consumer spending in the city, the latest tax collection figures show. In March, the amount of taxes withheld from New Yorkers' pay was more than 7 percent higher than in March 2007. The amount of local sales taxes collected last month was up even more, about 13 percent. PAGE B3
 BUSINESS
 LESS (INFORMATION) IS MORE
 In American Retailers' Reports
 J. C. Penney says the economy is making it impossible to predict earnings. Macy's asserts that providing monthly sales information is too confusing. And Starbucks argues that annual profit estimates are unnecessary. Faced with an economic slump, a growing number of national retailers are abandoning the tradition of reporting sales and forecasting annual profits. Wall Street analysts and investors are crying foul. PAGE C1 
 WHEN BAD NEWS IS GOOD NEWS
 One big bank after another has reported grim results this week, and more gloomy tidings are expected. But for the moment, investors do not seem to mind: After months of disappointments, they are just relieved the banks are not doing worse. JPMorgan Chase reported a plunge in profits, sending its stock soaring 6.7 percent. Wells Fargo said falling home prices depressed its earnings. Its stock rose 4.3 percent. PAGE C1 
 OLYMPIC SPONSORS IN THE HOT SEAT
 It is getting tougher to be a global brand these days. Just ask Coke. As a sponsor of the Olympics, Coca-Cola has found itself in the middle of a public dialogue about China's human rights record in Tibet. The company has been named by protesters as a target of a boycott at a time when it is expanding in China, a quandary facing other Olympic sponsors as protests unfurl across continents. PAGE C3 
 RETHINKING AIRLINE DEREGULATION
 Airline deregulation was supposed to spur competition and bring down fares. But with the planned merger between Delta and Northwest likely to encourage other airlines to pair off, the number of airlines may be shrinking. Reduced competition will probably mean higher fares, as the airlines shrink their fleets and cut flights to reduce costs. All of which raises anew the question: Has deregulation really worked? A news analysis by Micheline Maynard. PAGE C1 
 Pension Funds Lose Ground C3 
 Steep Loss at American Airlines C10 
 ARTS
 UNEASY LESSONS LEARNED
 From a School Tragedy
 ''From Up Here,'' a comedy-drama by Liz Flahive, explores a topic that is all-too-painfully timely: schoolplace violence. Some credibility issues aside, Charles Isherwood writes in his review, ''Ms. Flahive's casual avoidance of hand wringing and sententiousness brings a breath of fresh air to a subject more often accompanied by torrents of the hot kind.'' PAGE E1 
 HEROINES IN THE FOOTLIGHTS
 ''Girls Like Us'' is a biography of the singer-songwriters Carole King, Joni Mitchell and Carly Simon. Ms. Mitchell objected to being included with the other two, and only Ms. Simon cooperated with the author. And Janet Maslin isn't too keen on the title. But, she writes in her review, the book ''defies expectations,'' to the point where the author's grand ambitions wind up fulfilled. PAGE E1 
 THE RETURN OF PERKY CANDOR
 It is not surprising to learn that Kathie Lee Gifford says she sleeps only four hours a night. She seems to have no problem filling the remaining 20, especially now that she is bringing her Kathie Leeness to NBC's ''Today.'' Recent topics: young celebrities having babies, what to do when a man drops a relationship bomb and how to buy a bra that fits. PAGE E3 
 French Ingredients, Russian Dressing E6 
 Painting Outside the Lines E7 
 SPORTS
 A DOZEN MAPLE BATS 
 Await an Unemployed Owner
 Few baseball players -- if any -- can claim to have done a better job hitting a baseball in recent years than Barry Bonds. But with Bonds facing an indictment on four counts of perjury and one count of obstruction of justice related to the use of performance-enhancing drugs, and with no team so far interested in offering him a job, his custom-made maple bats are sitting, waiting. PAGE D2 
 DON'T CRY FOR ME, KNICKS FANS
 Isiah Thomas was talking about the many things he can be proud of about his life and accomplishments, striking a familiar theme. ''I'll take where I am today,'' he said, adding, ''I'm not looking for sympathy or anything like that.'' Well, ''He won't be getting much, not in New York,'' Harvey Araton writes, ''though I will admit to feeling no joy as one of the great N.B.A. showmen, the most accomplished little man in the history of the sport, became the target of such consuming ridicule and scorn.'' PAGE D1
 LEARNING THE HARD WAY
 Before he had his breakout season for the Cleveland Browns, before he played in stadiums with 60,000 people watching his exploits, Larry Williams learned his game in Flatbush, Brooklyn. Cars marked the sidelines, sewer grates identified first downs and street lights the end zones. And tackle was a hard game. ''Look around,'' Williams said on a recent tour. ''All you see is concrete.'' PAGE D7 
 SLUGFEST IN THE BRONX
 After a flurry of hitting by both teams in a game that took 4 hours 8 minutes, the Yankees beat the Red Sox, 15-9. Every Yankees starter scored at least one run, and the third-string catcher, Chad Moeller, had three hits. PAGE D1
 OBITUARIES
 MARTIN S. KIMMEL, 92
 A real estate developer, he tracked power company trucks throughout South Florida in the early 1960s to find sites for what eventually became the nation's largest builder of strip malls, the Kimco Realty Corporation. He and his friend Milton Cooper started it in 1960, and until the corporation went public 30 years later, the partners never saw a need to formalize their business relationship. PAGE B6
 HOUSE & HOME
 A CHUNKY, ERGONOMIC PLASTIC PEG
 In a Round Hole (Or Something)
 Only one thing stood, or lay, between Alexandra Avlonitis and domestic bliss after she renovated her bathroom: the toothbrushes. Each one was a different size, shape and amalgam of voluptuous injection-molded plastics. The only thing they had in common was that none fit into the toothbrush holder she'd bought. PAGE F1 
 THE GROW-IT-YOURSELF GANG
 Kitchen gardens are as old as the first hunter-gatherers who decided to settle down and watch the seeds grow. But they are being rediscovered by a generation worried about just what is in that bag of spinach and how much fuel was consumed to grow it and to fly it a thousand miles. PAGE F1 
 At Home With Reeve Lindbergh F7 
 THURSDAY STYLES
 NOTORIOUS JEWEL THIEF
 Alive and Well Received
 A sizable contingent of the hip-hop and fashion worlds never thought they'd see Derek Khan resurface. Once the most sought-after stylist in the music business, Mr. Khan was imprisoned in 2003 for pawning more than $1.5 million worth of jewelry he had borrowed. But Mr. Khan is again a star -- in Dubai. ''A lot of people who have a background come here,'' he said. PAGE G1 
 FINDING A SPEED TO GO THE DISTANCE
 Sara Hall, 2006's national road-running champion for 5K, experienced an instructive epiphany that year. After running the Fifth Avenue Mile in New York, she realized the distance played to her strengths. Now she is determined to make the United States Olympic team in middle distance running. The Olympic hopeful shares her tips for becoming a better runner. PAGE G1 
 Gen Y Job Hunters G2 
 Skin Deep G3 
 Critical Shopper G4
 EDITORIALS
 IMMIGRATION, OFF THE BOOKS
 Every American who has a job or wants one should be following the debates in Congress over bills to crack down on illegal hiring. Employment verification affects every worker and employer in America, native-born or not. PAGE A28
 STILL AWAITING AN ACCOUNTING
 It is encouraging that Pope Benedict XVI arrived in the United States speaking about his anguish over the actions of pedophile priests. But the church faithful still await an accounting of the long years of cover-up. PAGE A28
 SUPREME COURT FINE-TUNES PAIN
 The Supreme Court's regrettable ruling upholding Kentucky's use of lethal injection is a reminder of why government should get out of the business of executing prisoners. PAGE A28
 OP-ED
 GAIL COLLINS
 In the presidential debate, the Democratic candidates tossed personal baggage back and forth like a tennis ball. The ''bitter'' comment. The baking blunder. Jeremiah Wright. The nonexistent Bosnian sniper. I know it's been a hard couple of weeks, people. But just five more days, and then it's on to the next primary. PAGE A29
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 If you're a Democrat, your candidate won in the debate regardless of whom you support. That prediction is based on psychological research that helps to explain the recriminations between supporters of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. PAGE A29 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); EMISSIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); AIR QUALITY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); CEMENT MFG (64%); CITY LIFE (64%); BIRDS (64%); CITIES (64%); BIRDING (60%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); ORNITHOLOGY (60%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); TIBET (79%); CANADA (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



446 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Former Mayor Guilty of Fraud In Newark Sales

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES; Tina Kelley, Jonathan Miller and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Two blocks from the wood-paneled office where Sharpe James ran New Jersey's largest city for 20 years, the former mayor made a stealthy exit through a back door of the federal courthouse here on Wednesday after a jury found him guilty of fraud for conspiring to sell city-owned properties to a former companion at a fraction of their value.
 For Mr. James, 72, who had built a formidable political machine before his tawdry fall, it was a day of mixed images. After listening stone-faced to the verdict, he kissed his wife of five decades on the cheek as his former companion, Tamika Riley, 39, trailed a few steps behind.
 Snared in a scandal involving the sale of houses in the city's struggling South Ward, the former five-term mayor also presided over the construction of a glamorous performing arts center, a minor league ballpark and a glittering new ice hockey arena in downtown Newark. 
 He was found guilty on all five of the charges he faced, including fraud and conspiracy. Ms. Riley was found guilty of those charges plus eight others for tax violations.
 Under federal guidelines, prosecutors say, Mr. James and Ms. Riley each face at least eight years in prison, though a judge could sentence them to as much as 20 years on some counts. For now, they are both free on bail and will face sentencing on July 29. Mr. James's lead lawyer, Thomas Ashley, said he intended to appeal the verdict, which a jury had wrestled with since April 9. 
 From City Hall to the city streets, the conviction of Mr. James disappointed some, vindicated others, and left some observers hopeful that it could end this city's reputation as a trough for opportunistic public officials.
 It is a reputation that has been well-earned. Mr. James's predecessor, Kenneth A. Gibson, who was mayor from 1970 to 1986, pleaded guilty to tax fraud in 2002 but did not go to prison. Hugh J. Addonizio, who was mayor from 1962 to 1970, served five years in federal prison after being convicted in a scheme to take $1.4 million in kickbacks from city contractors. 
 As for Mr. James, David Bositis, a senior policy analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, which studies public policy issues of concern to black Americans, said: ''His time had clearly passed, in terms of Newark. The torch is gradually being passed, the old style of black leadership is increasingly being replaced by a younger generation.''
 Wednesday's verdict provided an exclamation point for a city that has largely moved beyond the ostentatious reign of Mr. James, who traveled the city's crime-plagued streets in a Rolls-Royce and owned a beach house and a 54-foot yacht. Mr. James left the mayor's office in the summer of 2006 after two decades in power as well as several hard looks from prosecutors. He was also a state senator from 1999 to early 2008.
 The verdict marked one of the most significant convictions won by the United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, who has successfully prosecuted more than 120 public corruption cases against Republicans and Democrats alike in the last seven years.
 ''For 36 years, Sharpe James reigned over this city,'' Mr. Christie said in a news conference on the courthouse steps, referring to Mr. James's two decades as mayor and 16 years on the Municipal Council. ''Today he is taught the lesson: that for those who disgrace their public office, for those who betray the public trust, there is only one place for you, and that is federal prison.''
 The verdict provided a dispiriting bookend to a political career that began when Mr. James, a track coach and physical education teacher, emerged as a community activist in the aftermath of the riots in Newark in the 1960s.
 A charismatic man, he cut a larger-than-life figure in New Jersey politics, and through the years he became known for his gap-toothed grin and bubbling optimism, his wide influence in doling out patronage and a ferocity when punishing political enemies.
 But after leaving the mayor's office in 2006 and with his indictment the following year, Mr. James all but disappeared from public life.
 ''Many people who are politically active in the city now are probably looking to put this behind them and, to be frank, may be breathing a sigh of relief that Sharpe James will no longer be a political presence in the city,'' said Brigid Harrison, a political scientist at Montclair State University.
 The case that brought about Mr. James's fall centered on the purchase of nine city-owned properties that Ms. Riley bought through a special program to help revitalize the city. She paid a total of $46,000 for the properties and quickly resold them for a profit of more than $600,000 without making any renovations, as required under the city contract.
 Prosecutors also said that Ms. Riley did not report the income she earned from the sale of the properties.
 Mr. James was accused of improperly using his influence to steer the properties to Ms. Riley, though his lawyers contended that Mr. James had made no extraordinary or unlawful efforts on her behalf. They also maintained that Mr. James had limited ability to control the program because all sales had to be approved by the Municipal Council.
 Ms. Riley's lawyer, Gerald Krovatin, acknowledged on the first day of arguments that she and Mr. James had an extramarital affair that lasted about six months in 2002, insisting that by the time their relationship had turned romantic most of the land sales had been completed.
 But witnesses testified that Mr. James and Ms. Riley had traveled together to the Dominican Republic as recently as 2006.
 And after 16 days of testimony from 33 prosecution witnesses, some trial watchers felt that prosecutors had crafted a stronger case against Ms. Riley than against Mr. James because they did not show that Mr. James profited from the sale of the properties, and no witnesses testified about direct knowledge of a scheme to steer the properties to Ms. Riley.
 ''This is really a risky gambit for the government,'' said Robert A. Mintz, a lawyer in Newark and former federal prosecutor who is an expert on white-collar crime. ''Because the government didn't have that'' -- a cooperating witness with knowledge of a conspiracy -- ''they relied on circumstantial evidence, on inferences and ultimately appealed to the jurors' common sense.''
 Mr. Christie acknowledged that prosecutors had more than a few nervous moments during the jury deliberations.
 ''Of course, of course,'' he said. ''But I never had any doubts about our case. I never had any doubts about Sharpe James's guilt.''
 Allegations of wrongdoing trailed Mr. James for years, intensifying in 1995 when he was fined $44,000 by the state election commission after he could not account for hundreds of thousands of dollars in political contributions. Two years later, Mr. James's chief of staff was jailed after a bribery investigation. Yet Mr. James emerged unscathed, attributing his lavish lifestyle to sound investments.
 On Wednesday, those who study Newark politics were trying to gauge how severely the conviction would tarnish Mr. James's legacy.
 ''In terms of the mayor's longstanding stature as a civic servant, as a political leader in Newark, I think the verdict will obviously cast a shadow over his personal history in Newark,'' said Clement A. Price, a professor of history at Rutgers University in Newark. ''Most unfortunately, in the minds of some, it will probably harden the stereotype of Newark as a city all too corrupt over the years.''
 Some had worried that if Mr. James were exonerated, it would be more difficult for his successor, Mayor Cory A. Booker, who positions himself as a reformer, to accomplish his goals. But Professor Harrison said, ''This verdict means Cory Booker can move forward in governing the city with a renewed sense of mission and a new kind of judicial mandate.''
 Mayor Booker called Wednesday a sad day for Newark, but said in a statement: ''I'm staying focused on the future. I hope the citizens of Newark stay focused on the important work we must do and the great things happening in the city.''
 If Mr. James's legacy was soiled by the conviction, on Wednesday he remained beloved on the streets. Gary McLean, 45, a city sanitation worker since 2001, credited the former mayor for lifting Newark from the ashes of the 1967 riots and said for that reason alone, Mr. James retained broad support. ''Everybody in this city, whether they say it or not, are still behind him,'' he said.
 For Mr. James, the verdict means that his legal odyssey is only half over. He faces another trial, not yet scheduled, on charges that he improperly used city-issued credit cards to incur more than $58,000 in travel and other expenses for trips that he took with Ms. Riley and other women.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharpe James arriving at court in Newark on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A27) CHART: SHARPE JAMES: A TIMELINE: The mayoral administration of Sharpe James came under scrutiny from federal investigators several times between 1995 and 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A27) Chart showing an overview of Sharpe James and his administration under investigation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); VERDICTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); MAYORS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); JUDGES (72%); SCANDALS (72%); POLITICS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRISONS (70%); BAIL (66%); TAX LAW (66%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%); ICE HOCKEY (53%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (53%); WINTER SPORTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



447 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A Line in the Yard: The Battle Over the Right to Dry Outside

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: AURORA, Ontario 

 BODY:
Rob and Laurie Cook are not prone to breaking the law, but these days they have been given to a regular act of civil disobedience: hanging their laundry to dry out in the backyard. The deed to their home -- like most in this upscale suburb -- prohibits outdoor clotheslines as eyesores. 
 ''I thought people passing by couldn't see it, and the developers wouldn't see it, so it didn't bother my conscience too much,'' said Mr. Cook, a retired businessman and former officer in the Canadian Air Force who is part of a citizens group trying to get the clothesline ban overturned, arguing that line drying is better for the environment. 
 ''Using a dryer may have made sense 30 years ago when energy was cheap and we weren't aware of global warming,'' he said. ''It doesn't any more.'' 
 The Cooks are part of a loose global network of people who are rallying around what they call the ''right to dry.'' While not necessarily abandoning the electric dryer, they are adding the clothesline and the drying rack to their stable of household appliances, or fighting for the right to do so. 
 Ontario is among a number of places that is considering striking down the clothesline bans that have been common in North America and parts of Europe, arguing that they are environmentally irresponsible. Laws seeking to overturn clothesline bans are now pending in Connecticut, Vermont and Colorado. 
 ''If we can't change simple stuff like this, we'll never handle the big things we need to do for the planet,'' said Aurora's mayor, Phyllis Morris, who earlier this year petitioned Ontario's government to declare clothesline bans an illegal ''barrier to conservation'' under provincial law. ''People say, 'Oh, Phyllis, you want to turn women back into the laundry lady,' and I say wrong: This is about rights. It's about the environment.'' 
 Motivated by environmental concerns and skyrocketing energy costs, consumers like her and the Cooks are re-evaluating their drying habits. The British retailer ASDA said that in the first four months of 2007, the most recent period for which numbers were available, sales of clotheslines and washing lines rose 150 percent and sales of clothespins over 1,000 percent. Hills Industries of Australia, whose core product is drying racks, reported that revenues in its home division jumped 15 percent in 2007. 
 Tumble dryers, like sport utility vehicles, are verging on an image problem: once symbols of economic success, they have morphed into icons of environmental disregard. The gas guzzlers of household appliances, electric dryers use about as much energy as a refrigerator -- consuming more than 6 percent of household energy -- even though they are used only intermittently. 
 And there is a cheap and easy, carbon-free alternative. ''A clothesline is not a solar panel or a Prius -- it's something that everyone can afford,'' said Alexander Lee, founder of Project Laundry List, which promotes sustainable technology in the home.
 None of this means the tumble dryer is dead. Over the past three decades it has become a fixture of domestic life in the developed world. As of 2005, they were in more than 50 percent of households in the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, Belgium and Britain. 
 Even in the Netherlands, known as environmentally conscious, the number of dryers has been doubling every 10 years. The only country to have withstood the trend is Italy, where laundry hangs from balconies, even in cities. 
 But conservation experts say that to avert a temperature increase of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels, global emissions must be cut by 80 percent by 2050. To reach that goal, they say, household emissions, which make up a quarter of the total in developed countries, will have to take a big cut. At least a third of the carbon savings in the residential sector comes from behavioral changes, according to a recent study by the Environmental Change Institute of Oxford University. 
 Dryers, which must heat air and spin clothes around, cannot be made much more efficient, or at least no one has figured out how to do it yet. The United States Environmental Protection Agency's energy star system, intended to direct consumers to more efficient models, does not rate dryers because they all use ''similar'' amounts of energy. In fact, for more energy-efficient clothes drying, it recommends choosing a model that detects when clothes are dry and shuts off, or ''air drying clothes on clotheslines or clothes racks.''
 Appliance manufacturers say they are ''continually looking for ways to improve efficiency,'' with sensors and the like, said Allison Eckelkamp, public relations manager for General Electric's consumer division. 
 But she added: ''When it comes to drying clothes, we find that our consumers are very busy and are looking for the fastest dry time. Of course, line drying is a more energy-efficient option, provided the weather is good, but it is not very convenient or time efficient.''
 Aurora is exactly the kind of hip, upscale, well-educated town where conflicting values are put to the test. Its picturesque Victorian heritage district is lined with coffee shops, bookstores, spas and lawyers' offices. Its newer districts consist of immaculately maintained developments featuring spacious homes (five different models), with balconies and two-car garages, on manicured parcels of land. Recycling bins -- one blue and one green -- stand in front of each driveway, placed out only on Fridays. 
 Laundry is not part of the landscape.
 Here, legal line drying is often impossible because developments tend to ban clotheslines under longstanding ''restrictive covenants'' -- laws to protect homeowners that, for example, forbid satellite dishes beyond a certain size, fixing cars on the street or keeping farm animals in the yard. Most of the provisions date back decades. ''The people who moved here wanted convenience and a suburban paradise -- sheets and clothes hanging out symbolized a less affluent time,'' Mayor Morris said.
 Some homeowners and developers still support the bans. ''I can see why people would want to do it for the environment, but the houses here are so close together, you don't really want to look at your neighbor's laundry,'' said Danielle DeCastro, 28, who was walking in the Great Gulf Homes development with her baby.
 In New Hampshire, an attempt to overturn clothesline bans was defeated this month by a coalition of businessmen and representatives of community associations, who said they felt such measures unduly restricted homeowners' contracts.
 ''We spend a lot of money on architecture and design -- we tell builders what windows they may use -- so this is a long list of protections that evolved to protect homeowners, to keep things looking nice for everyone,'' said Nik Mracic, vice president of Metrus Development in Ontario, noting that his developments typically allowed umbrella-type clotheslines, while forbidding those strung across the yard. 
 Still, he said, such covenants typically reflect clients' priorities at the moment and ''this is the right time'' for the clothesline issue to be reviewed. Recently, he has deleted the clause from new developments, adding, ''I think many developers would gladly delete it -- but some people will not like the fact that they're seeing their neighbors' underwear.'' 
 In Ontario, a 60-day comment period on the new proposal has just ended, and the government will be addressing it shortly. 
 Mayor Morris has already begun to proudly hang out her laundry again. ''I'm not worried,'' she said. ''These days the people who are skulking around aren't the ones drying their clothes outside, but the ones who oppose it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Motivated by environmental concerns and rising energy costs, some people in Aurora are forsaking tumble dryers
 For Laurie Cook, above, the answer to one energy issue is drying in the wind. She is working with others in Aurora, Ontario, to end a ban on clotheslines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARANTXA CEDILLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Aurora is an upscale town where laundry is rarely public. Map of Aurora in Canada. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (87%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); AIR FORCES (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (65%); RETAILERS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



448 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Get Stingy With Data

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
J. C. Penney says the tumultuous economy is making it impossible to predict earnings over the next year. Macy's asserts that providing monthly sales information is too distracting and confusing. And Starbucks argues that annual profit estimates are unnecessary.
 In American retailing, less is suddenly more -- at least when it comes to giving investors the sort of financial information they have long expected from companies. 
 Faced with an economic slump, a growing number of national retailers are abandoning the longstanding tradition of reporting monthly store sales and forecasting annual profits.
 The stores say that they are eliminating outdated practices that encourage short-term decision-making and can confuse investors. 
 But many Wall Street analysts and investors, who rely on these numbers to gauge a company's health and the mood of the American consumer, are crying foul. The motive for providing less financial insight, they suspect, is to avoid issuing embarrassing numbers in the middle of a recession, numbers that can drive down a company's stock price.
 So far this year, Starbucks, Macy's, CVSCaremark and Jos. A. Bank have ditched one or both of the financial reporting practices that were once standard in retailing.
 And on Wednesday, J. C. Penney joined the list, saying it would stop offering annual profit estimates, known in the industry as guidance, at least for now. (It will still provide monthly sales and quarterly profit estimates.)
 Myron E. Ullman, the chief executive of J. C. Penney, said that with the housing market in turmoil and gas prices surging, ''there is not enough visibility to give something meaningful.''
 The analysts who track J. C. Penney and the rest of the retail business can barely contain their frustration with all the lip zipping. ''Withholding information is not what investors want,'' said Bill Dreher, a longtime retail analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. ''They want clarity.''
 A tough economy, Mr. Dreher added, ''is a time to be more communicative, not a time to deprive us of guidance or clamp down on information.'' 
 Though they have no legal obligation to do so, most publicly traded retail companies divulge their monthly sales performance and offer an estimate of their annual profits, with the figures becoming guideposts for Wall Street, economists and investors. 
 The profit forecasts allow stores to set reasonable expectations for investors, and minimize the chances for surprises, which Wall Street tends to dislike. 
 The monthly sales figures from retailers are especially valuable to economists, because they provide a regular snapshot of consumer finances and confidence. The first Thursday of every month, dozens of chains disclose how much sales rose or fell at stores open at least one year, a figure known as same-store sales. ''It's a barometer of the economy and a benchmark for the industry,'' said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group.
 But monthly sales have become controversial within retailing. Stores say they encourage employees to make decisions that bolster sales within a given month, even if they may hurt the company over time. 
 And some retailers argue that frequent quirks in the calendar can skew the numbers from one month to the next, creating a false impression of strong or weak performance. 
 That is what happened at chains like Macy's during the 2007 holiday season. Because Thanksgiving occurred a week earlier than normal last year, one week of holiday shopping shifted from December to November. As a result, reported sales surged in November and plunged in December. Macy's sales, for example, rose 13.4 percent in November 2007, but fell 7.9 percent in December. When the latter figure came out, Macy's stock fell more than 6 percent in two days.
 Despite warnings about the calendar shift, many investors were surprised by the December numbers. Executives at Macy's found this agonizing -- and said it contributed to their decision to stop reporting monthly store sales after January 2008. 
 ''The numbers are increasingly confusing because of the calendar shifts,'' said Jim Sluzewski, a spokesman for Macy's. He added that the monthly numbers encourage ''a short-term orientation, which is not the way to run a business.''
 But analysts suspect another motivation for Macy's: weak performance. The department store chain, which has experienced ups and downs since its merger with May Department Stores in 2005, reported sales declined in seven out of the last nine months that it provided such figures.
 It was not until Starbucks ran into business problems, in January, that it stopped offering annual profit forecasts and same-store sales for its coffee shops. 
 With the chain experimenting with a variety of changes, like closing stores and dropping warm breakfast sandwiches, the chief executive, Howard Schultz, said monthly sales ''will not be an effective indicator of our performance.''
 Mr. Schultz said he would consider offering a quarterly same-store sales figure, but no decision has been made so far. 
 ''The less said the better,'' said Mr. Niemira, of the shopping council, summing up the new prevailing wisdom.
 But clamming up can backfire for companies. In mid-2006, as the housing market began to slip, Home Depot said it would no longer disclose same-store sales, which it issued every quarter alongside its earnings. 
 The company said the figure was becoming less relevant, since Home Depot was branching out into new businesses, like a supply division focused on lumber and cement. 
 But investors balked. Soon, Home Depot reversed itself and began offering same-store sales figures. 
 So far, there is no sign that Macy's, Starbucks or J. C. Penney will face similar revolts. But analysts are making their displeasure known. 
 ''Small investors will be hurt because they will not have as much information,'' said Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a retail consulting firm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan Koval of Buffalo browses at J. C. Penney. Penney said Wednesday it would stop offering annual profit estimates. It will still provide monthly sales and quarterly profit estimates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%); J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); JOS A BANK CLOTHIERS INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (53%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%); JCP (NYSE) (95%); JOSB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



449 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Is Doing Just Fine As It Reports Strong Profit

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. reported strong quarterly profits on Wednesday that easily surpassed Wall Street's estimates, as its reach across global markets and its healthy services and software businesses left it unscathed so far by the weakness of the United States economy.
 The performance was helped by the decline of the dollar. Most of I.B.M.'s business is outside the United States, so a falling dollar lifts reported earnings. 
 But even in the American market, I.B.M. has proved remarkably successful in sidestepping problems, with sales rising 6 percent in the quarter, an improvement from the last quarter in 2007, when revenue in the United States rose only 2 percent.
 I.B.M., the world's largest technology services company, reported net profits of $2.32 billion, an increase of 26 percent from the year-earlier quarter when it earned $1.84 billion. Its earnings per share were $1.65, well ahead of the analysts' consensus, as compiled by Thomson Financial, of $1.45.
 Revenue for the quarter was $24.5 billion, an 11 percent increase from a year earlier.
 In a conference call, Mark Loughridge, I.B.M.'s chief financial officer, said the company was raising its profit projection for the year. I.B.M. expects profits of at least $8.50 a share, up from the previous guidance of $8.25.
 In after-hours trading, I.B.M.'s stock price rose to nearly $124. In regular trading, before the earnings report, the shares closed at $120.47, up $3.30 for the day.
 I.B.M. resilience in challenging times, Mr. Loughridge said in an interview, has been the result of its strategy, which was fine-tuned early last year. He described it as ''two separate views of the global market.'' 
 In developed nations, including the United States, where customers were likely to be tightening their belts, I.B.M. tailored its services and software offerings to help customers cut costs, conserve cash and improve productivity. Those kinds of technology investments, Mr. Loughridge said, make sense when the economy is weak. 
 In fast-growing markets like China, India and Eastern Europe, Mr. Loughridge said, I.B.M. has invested heavily to capture opportunities for new business. I.B.M., he said, has positioned itself as a leading supplier of hardware, software and services to large banks, government agencies and telecommunications companies. In India, for example, I.B.M. is a major technology supplier to the three largest telecom companies, who together are signing up 55,000 new cellphone customers every day. ''In these emerging markets, it's all about technology infrastructure for us,'' Mr. Loughridge explained. 
 I.B.M.'s strong quarterly results were led by its big services business, where revenue rose to $14.6 billion, up 17 percent, or 9 percent after adjusting for currency gains. Services represent the majority of I.B.M.'s business, and in recent quarters the growth and profit margins have been improving. ''Fundamentally, the thing that is really rocking for I.B.M. now is the services business,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 The software business grew to $4.8 billion, up 14 percent, or 6 percent without the currency effects. Computer hardware and microprocessor sales fell to $4.2 billion, but that business picked up toward the end of the quarter when I.B.M. introduced a new version of its mainframe, the z10.
 I.B.M.'s total revenue, after excluding a 7 percent lift from currency gains and 1 percent from an acquisition, grew a modest 3 percent. ''It isn't that I.B.M. is rocketing ahead of everyone, but it is executing so well in this environment,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. 
 Beyond I.B.M., another sign of resilience in the technology sector came Wednesday from the personal computer industry. Personal computer shipments worldwide rose a robust 14.6 percent in the first quarter, according to IDC, a market research firm.
 In the United States, PC shipments rose only 3.5 percent from the year-earlier quarter. The slowdown in America was more than offset by strong sales elsewhere, especially in fast-growing Asian markets, with the exception of Japan, where sales rose less than 2 percent.
 Worldwide, the shift to notebook computers in both the business and consumer market is fueling growth, along with falling prices on desktop PCs, IDC said. Hewlett-Packard continues to be the world's largest PC maker, with 19.1 percent of the market, up from 18.6 percent a year ago. And second-ranked Dell is regaining share, rising to 15.7 percent worldwide, up from 14.8 percent a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



450 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: From Six-Year Drought in Australia, a Global Crisis Over Rice

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Keith Bradsher reported from Australia last month and later added updated information. Rose Skelton in Fadiouth, Senegal, contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DENILIQUIN, Australia 

 BODY:
Lindsay Renwick, the mayor of this dusty southern Australian town, remembers the constant whir of the rice mill. ''It was our little heartbeat out there, tickety-tick-tickety,'' he said, imitating the giant fans that dried the rice, ''and now it has stopped.''
 The Deniliquin mill, the largest rice mill in the Southern Hemisphere, once processed enough grain to meet the needs of 20 million people around the world. But six long years of drought have taken a toll, reducing Australia's rice crop by 98 percent and leading to the mothballing of the mill last December.
 Ten thousand miles separate the mill's hushed rows of oversized silos and sheds -- beige, gray and now empty -- from the riotous streets of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, but a widening global crisis unites them. 
 The collapse of Australia's rice production is one of several factors contributing to a doubling of rice prices in the last three months -- increases that have led the world's largest exporters to restrict exports severely, spurred panicked hoarding in Hong Kong and the Philippines, and set off violent protests in countries including Cameroon, Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti, Indonesia, Italy, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, the Philippines, Thailand, Uzbekistan and Yemen. 
 Drought affects every agricultural industry based here, not just rice -- from sheepherding, the other mainstay in this dusty land, to the cultivation of wine grapes, the fastest-growing crop here, with that expansion often coming at the expense of rice. 
 The drought's effect on rice has produced the greatest impact on the rest of the world, so far. It is one factor contributing to skyrocketing prices, and many scientists believe it is among the earliest signs that a warming planet is starting to affect food production. 
 It is difficult to definitely link short-term changes in weather to long-term climate change, but the unusually severe drought is consistent with what climatologists predict will be a problem of increasing frequency.
 Indeed, the chief executive of the National Farmers' Federation in Australia, Ben Fargher, says, ''Climate change is potentially the biggest risk to Australian agriculture.''
 Drought has already spurred significant changes in Australia's agricultural heartland. Some farmers are abandoning rice, which requires large amounts of water, to plant less water-intensive crops like wheat or, especially here in southeastern Australia, wine grapes. Other rice farmers have sold fields or water rights, usually to grape growers.
 Scientists and economists worry that the reallocation of scarce water resources -- away from rice and other grains and toward more lucrative crops and livestock -- threatens poor countries that import rice as a dietary staple. 
 The global agricultural crisis is threatening to become political, pitting the United States and other developed countries against the developing world over the need for affordable food versus the need for renewable energy. Many poorer nations worry that subsidies from rich countries to support biofuels, which turn food, like corn, into fuel, are pushing up the price of staples. The World Bank and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization called on major agricultural nations to overhaul policies to avoid a social explosion from rising food prices.
 With rice, which is not used to make biofuel, the problem is availability. Even in normal times, little of the world's rice is actually exported -- more than 90 percent is consumed in the countries where it is grown. In the last quarter-century, rice consumption has outpaced production, with global reserves plunging by half just since 2000. A plant disease is hurting harvests in Vietnam, reducing supply. And economic uncertainty has led producers to hoard rice and speculators and investors to see it as a lucrative or at least safe bet. 
 All these factors have made countries that buy rice on the global market vulnerable to extreme price swings.
 Senegal and Haiti each import four-fifths of their rice, and both have faced mounting unrest as prices have increased. Police suppressed violent demonstrations in Dakar on March 30, and unrest has spread to other rice-dependent nations in West Africa, notably Ivory Coast. The Haitian president, Rene Preval, after a week of riots, announced subsidies for rice buyers on Saturday.
 Scientists expect the problem to worsen. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, set up by the United Nations, predicted last year that even slight warming would lower agricultural output in the tropics and subtropics. 
 Moderate warming could benefit crop and pasture yields in countries far from the Equator, like Canada and Russia. In fact, the net effect of moderate warming is likely to be higher total global food production in the next several decades. 
 But the scientists said the effect would be uneven, and enormous quantities of food would need to be shipped from areas farther from the Equator to feed the populations of often less-affluent countries closer to the Equator.
 The panel predicted that even greater warming, which might happen by late in this century if few or no limits are placed on greenhouse gas emissions, would hurt total food output and cripple crops in many countries. 
 Survival Techniques
 Paul Lamine N'Dong, an elder in Joal, Senegal, worries that hot weather and failing rains have already crippled his village's crop of millet, a coarse grain eaten locally and traded for rice. 
 Sitting on a concrete dais reserved for elders, Mr. N'Dong said on a recent morning, ''The price rises very quickly, which means we really have to go and look for money.'' 
 ''It is live or die,'' he said.
 For farmers in a richer nation like Australia, the effects of the current drought are already significant. 
 The rice farmers who do not give up and sell their land or water rights are experimenting with varieties or techniques that require less water. 
 Still, Australia's total rice capacity has declined by about a third because many farmers have permanently sold water rights, mostly for grape production. And production last year was far lower because of a severe shortage of water; rice farmers received one-eighth of the water they are usually promised by the government.
 The accidental beneficiaries of these conditions have been the farmers who grow wine grapes in the river basin where the Deniliquin mill stands silent. 
 Even with the recent doubling of rice prices, to around $1,000 a metric ton for the high grades produced by Australia, it is even more profitable to grow wine grapes. All told, wine grapes produce a pretax profit of close to $2,000 an acre while rice produces a pretax profit around $240 an acre. 
 Also selling water rights to grape growers are ranchers like Peter Milliken, who raises sheep on 37,500 acres near Hay, Australia. Some ranchers have water to sell because they are reducing the water they use. Mr. Milliken is installing a buried nine-mile pipe to replace an irrigation canal that lost up to 90 percent of its water to evaporation -- and is planning for the day when he does not irrigate at all.
 Sheep farmers have already worked out cooperative arrangements to send flocks to whatever fields have recently received rain, sometimes herding or trucking them long distances. Keeping an eye on a flock, Frank Cox, a drover, said recently, ''We had to move the sheep because they were dying of starvation, and truck them down here.''
 The drought is making rice harder to find. For instance, SunRice, the Australian rice trading and marketing giant owned by the country's rice growers, began preparing to mothball the Deniliquin mill five months ago, when it noticed that Australian farmers were planting almost no rice. To make sure that it could continue supplying the domestic market, as well as export markets in Papua New Guinea, South Pacific island nations, Taiwan and the Middle East, SunRice stepped up rice purchases from other countries, said the chief executive, Gary Helou.
 The SunRice purchases became one among the many factors that are making it harder for longtime rice importers elsewhere to find supplies. 
 Researchers are looking for solutions to global rice shortages -- for example, rice that blooms earlier in the day, when it is cooler, to counter global warming. Rice plants that happen to bloom on hot days are less likely to produce grains of rice, a difficulty that is already starting to emerge in inland areas of China and other Asian countries as temperatures begin to climb.
 ''There will be problems very soon unless we have new varieties of rice in place,'' said Reiner Wassmann, climate change coordinator at the International Rice Research Institute near Manila, a leader in developing higher-yielding strains of rice for nearly half a century. 
 The recent reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change carried an important caveat that could make the news even worse: the panel said that existing models for the effects of climate change on agriculture did not yet include newer findings that global warming could reduce rainfall and make it more variable.
 Seeking Hardier Rice
 Many agronomists contend that changes in the timing and amount of rain are more important for crops than temperature changes. Rajendra K. Pachauri, the chairman of the panel, said long-range climate forecasts for precipitation would require another 5 to 20 years of research.
 In addition to drought, climate change could also produce more extreme weather, more pest and weed outbreaks, and changes in sea level as polar ice melts. Most of the world's increase in rice production over the last quarter-century has occurred close to sea level, in the deltas of rivers like the Mekong in Vietnam, Chao Phraya in Thailand and Ganges-Brahmaputra in Bangladesh. 
 Yet the effects of climate change are not uniformly bad for rice. Rising concentrations of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, can actually help rice and other crops -- although the effect dwindles or disappears if the plants face excessive heat, inadequate water, severe pollution or other stresses.
 Still, the flexibility of farmers and ranchers here has persuaded some climate experts that, particularly in developed countries, the effects of climate change may be mitigated, if not completely avoided.
 ''I'm not as pessimistic as most people,'' said Will Steffen, the director of the Fenner School of Environment and Society at Australian National University. ''Farmers are learning how to do things differently.''
 Meanwhile, changes like the use of water to grow wine grapes instead of rice carry their own costs, as the developing world is discovering.
 ''Rice is a staple food,'' said Graeme J. Haley, the general manager of the town of Deniliquin. ''Chardonnay is not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LONG DRIVE FOR WATER: In the grip of a punishing drought, herds of Australian sheep, like these in New South Wales, are driven long distances in search of water and feed (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TURNING SCANT WATER INTO WINE: The De Bortoli vineyard in Yenda uses fields converted from water-intensive rice to grape growing. (pg. A8) MAP: FARMING IN A WARMER WORLD: Crop forecasts show that some countries farther from the Equator could benefit from a warmer world, but others would be worse off by 2080 if global warming were to proceed unchecked. Long-range forecasts vary widely
the following is a synthesis of available forecasts by country or region. (Source: ''Global Warming and Agriculture: Impact Estimates by Country,'' by William R. Cline, Peterson Institute, 2007.) (pg. A8) Map showing the changes in agricultural output potential by 2080. GRAPH: GROWING GRAPES, NOT RICE: Faced with drought since 2003, Australia has increased output of grapes for wine and cut rice production, as rice farmers have sold many of their water rights to grape farmers. (Sources: Australian wine and rice producers
New South Wales Rice Marketing Board
 Australia Wine and Brandy Corporation) (pg. A8) Graph showing an increase in Australia's wine and cut rice production. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (90%); RICE MILLING (90%); RICE FARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); MAYORS (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); RICE MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); RIOTS (68%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); EQUATOR (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); HAITI (91%); PHILIPPINES (90%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



451 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Slowing in U.S. and Chinese Economies, but at Much Different Paces

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
A flurry of reports on Wednesday portrayed an American economy limping its way through a broad-based downturn, as consumer demand softens and the labor and housing markets continue to struggle. 
 Though consumer prices stayed elevated last month, there were signs that inflation has started to recede, welcome news for the Federal Reserve as it tries to avert a prolonged recession while keeping prices in check. 
 ''A credible case can be made that inflation is behaving as expected in a recession and starting to moderate,'' Bernard Baumohl of the Economic Outlook Group wrote in a research note. ''The healing process has begun.'' 
 The Consumer Price Index, a bellwether inflation gauge that includes prices from a basket of common consumer goods, rose 0.3 percent in March after staying flat in February. 
 There were slight increases in the cost of housing, with rent, utilities and the price of heating oil accelerating from February. The cost of gasoline also stayed high, as the price of oil hit triple-digit record highs last month.
 But some economists said the numbers could have been worse. Food and beverage prices, which soared last year, have decelerated slightly in 2008. They declined again in March, as consumers paid less for dairy products and alcoholic beverages. The cost of fruits and vegetables has also fallen over the last two months.
 The cost of clothing, automobiles and personal computers also declined. The closely watched core index, which excludes the volatile costs of food and energy products, rose less than 0.2 percent. In the last 12 months, core prices rose 2.4 percent, at the high end of the Fed's presumed comfort zone but not beyond it. ''We're seeing incipient signs that inflation pressures are starting to ebb,'' Mr. Baumohl wrote. 
 Economists speculated that the broader downturn in the economy had discouraged businesses from raising prices as consumers become increasingly budget-conscious. Slower demand for goods is forcing some businesses to absorb higher production costs, which can hurt profits. 
 Still, the report was far from an all-clear. Food prices could stage a comeback in April as a huge run-up in wheat prices works its way through the production pipeline. ''Commodities and wholesale prices take a few months to pass through,'' said Ephraim Leibtag, an economist who studies food markets for the Department of Agriculture. ''They're not instantaneous.''
 And compared with 12 months ago, prices are up a hefty 4 percent over all. 
 ''It's headline inflation that erodes the purchasing power of income, and that continues to rise at a brisk pace, especially food and energy prices,'' said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investor Service. ''This could be the worst year for real consumer spending since 1991.''
 Mr. Lonski's concerns were reinforced on Wednesday by a Fed report that showed American business conditions had weakened in the last few weeks.
 The beige book, a regular report based on an anecdotal survey of businesses in 12 major metropolitan districts, showed Americans were more reluctant to make large purchases last month. Manufacturers reported mixed results, and demand for transportation services weakened. Robust tourism and export sales, however, helped prop up activity. 
 Credit problems remained widespread, according to the report, as mortgage houses tightened their lending standards and banks were less willing to lend to businesses and consumers.
 More workers struggled to find jobs, with employment running flat in many regions. Philadelphia, Atlanta and Minneapolis were particularly hard hit: businesses in those cities reported layoffs and hiring freezes.
 Businesses in nine of the districts reported a slowdown in activity, while three cities -- Boston, Cleveland, and Richmond -- reported mixed performances. The businesses were surveyed in March and the first week of April.
 Real estate construction also stayed stagnant, businesses said, dovetailing with a dreary report on housing released on Wednesday by the Commerce Department. Groundbreakings for new homes declined 12 percent and permits dropped 6 percent as builders grappled with fewer buyers and bloated inventories. New residential construction has fallen to levels last seen in the housing recession of the early 1990s.
 Housing starts dropped to an annual rate of 947,000, seasonally adjusted, the slowest pace since March 1991. Permits fell to a 927,000 annual rate, below expectations. 
 The declines were hitting every geographic region and affecting single-family homes, apartment buildings and condominiums. 
 ''In short, truly calamitous,'' Ian C. Shepherdson, an economist based in London for High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note.
 Many would-be buyers of new homes are waiting for values to drop further before entering the market, saddling many builders with a backlog of unsold homes.
 In a separate report on Wednesday, the Fed said production output at American factories unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent in March, after falling 0.7 percent in February. 
 The increase came primarily from utilities, mining and electronics, with a big jump in natural gas production. Capacity utilization, also a measure of productivity, rose slightly, to 80.5 percent, from 80.3 percent in February.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: MIXED GROWTH IN MOST REGIONS: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before April 7. (Source: Bloomberg News)
 CONSUMER PRICES: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) A breakdown of retail sales and growth region by region in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (72%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



452 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: More Than a Food Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The United States' ethanol industry shares the concerns of The New York Times about the effect of hunger on developing nations around the globe (''The World Food Crisis,'' editorial, April 10). 
 But the problems of hunger have existed long before the United States' ethanol industry, and without structural reform in how aid is delivered will unfortunately persist. 
 In calling for the end of the world's emerging biofuels industry (one that an analyst at Merrill Lynch calculates is keeping oil and gasoline prices 15 percent lower than they might otherwise be), you are extraordinarily shortsighted about the single largest economic and environmental challenge facing the world today: our increasing reliance on finite supplies of oil. 
 It is world oil prices that are the most significant factor driving the price of food across the globe. It requires petroleum to grow, process, package and transport food all around the world. With oil prices sustained at record levels and gasoline and diesel prices soaring, it is little wonder that food prices are rising.
 Until we truly address the energy crisis, the environmental and food security issues facing the world today will continue. 
 Bob Dinneen President, Renewable Fuels Association Washington, April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (91%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOMASS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (69%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



453 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; FASTER, HIGHER, STRONGER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Changing Speeds to Go The Distance

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS

 BODY:
SARA HALL experienced an instructive epiphany in 2006. In the fall, she'd won the national road-running championship for 5K (3.1 miles), a distance she specialized in at Stanford. At the time, she considered herself a 5K runner. So did everyone else. 
 A few weeks later, everything changed when she won the Fifth Avenue Mile in New York, a glamour event in American road racing. ''Afterward, I thought, 'That's my distance,' '' she said. ''It plays to my strengths. I loved the fast pace. I'm not a patient runner.''
 Today, Hall, 25, is laser-focused on training for the 1,500 meters (0.93 mile) in hopes of making the United States Olympic team in middle distance running. 
 She and her coach, Terrence Mahon, who also coaches Hall's husband, Ryan Hall, the winner of the United States Olympic team men's marathon trial, have increased her speed work and reconfigured how much she's running and her intensity. 
 ''Her work capacity has gone through the roof,'' Mahon said, and she can run greater distances faster than ever before. Which makes her current regimen a good model for how recreational runners -- not just the elite -- can get swifter and sharper, and perhaps even decide that they have been racing the wrong distance all along. 
 SPEED THRILLS
 ''I'm not running as far these days,'' Hall said, compared with the distances she ran in high school and college. That might come as a surprise to anyone who learns that her average weekly mileage remains 85 to 90 (compared with her husband's 140-plus). A typical training week includes easy running on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday (usually twice a day). Hall, who can run almost a four-minute mile, lopes through these 30- or 50-minute workouts at a leisurely mile pace of 7 minutes. (To accurately figure her mile splits, she wears a watch equipped with G.P.S.) On Saturday, she takes a 14-mile run at a pace (5 minutes 45 seconds per mile) that is between what she runs in races and her easy days.
 Then there are the fast, hard interval sessions at a track on Tuesdays and Thursdays. These hurt because they are supposed to. ''You stress the body to get it to adapt'' to the mechanical and physiological demands of speed, Mahon said. A typical Tuesday session includes two miles of warm-up, six miles of intervals and three miles of cool-down. 
 Anyone not aiming for an Olympic qualifying time should adjust speed-training mileage downward, Mahon said. ''Go to a track and run a mile flat-out'' and record your time, he said. Your ideal pace for a 5K race would be around 95 percent as fast per mile. Then implement what Mahon calls ''over-speed and under-speed training.'' In over-speed, you sprint through quarter-miles, 800 meters and other intervals at a speed faster than your 5K pace (close to your top mile time). Don't run more than two fast miles. 
 For under-speed work, time your interval splits to be a little slower than your 5K pace, with shorter rest periods than those within the over-speed intervals. Total mileage can be four to six miles. Cool down with a gentle jog of about half your total interval distance. 
 Try sprinting one week, and running slower the next or, if you're an experienced racer, both in separate sessions in a week. Don't, despite its discomforts, worm out of speed work. ''The most common mistake'' that recreational runners make, Mahon said, ''is running the same pace all the time.'' Occasionally making yourself run fast, he said, ''is the only way to make yourself a fast runner.'' 
 STRIDE RIGHT
 Hall kicks like a mule when she runs. She's trying to stop. ''This year, we've been totally focused on my form,'' she said. ''I tend to lean forward and I have a big back kick.'' This slightly toppling stance lessens the power of her strides, and also has made her prone to being tripped up from behind during races. 
 Although some runners and coaches are loathe to fiddle with a runner's stride, Mahon isn't one of them. ''Proper running form will lessen the chance of injuries and further the longevity of an athlete's career,'' he said. ''It will improve running economy and allow the runner to run faster with less fuel expended.''
 To help with form, ''those of us in the elite-distance running community have started looking at what sprinters do,'' Mahon said. 
 Ideally, he said, ''You want a straight, perpendicular line between the ground and your ankle and knee.'' So, for up to two hours a day, several times a week, Hall has been practicing various drills, which as she said, are designed to teach her to ''keep your feet right underneath you.'' 
 During each exercise, she said, she tried to land more toward her heels than her toes. This is known as ''dorsiflexion'' of the ankle, or a slight upward tilting of the foot. Mahon said this is the ideal foot-strike position. Landing flat-footed or near your heel, he said, ''allows for the arch to work as a spring.'' It also ''allows for the ankle joint to disperse shock up to the knee and hip and lessen the total blow on a single joint.''
 The drills seem to be working for Hall, who demonstrated some of her favorites on a recent Thursday while training at the University of California, Riverside, with her husband. ''People have told me I look more upright,'' she said. She hasn't tangled legs with another racer for months. And, she said, her feet don't hurt like they once did. 
 LOAD UP ON ICE 
 ''You can't keep up with a heavy workload'' of running if you don't recover between sessions, Mahon said. Hall schedules a weekly sports massage and, after hard interval sessions, settles herself into an ice bath (a tub filled with ice-cube-laced water at the sports medicine department at U.C. Riverside, where she trains) for 15 minutes. 
 This immersion is widely believed to help reduce the swelling and soreness that can follow intense workouts. Ice baths after intervals ''feel really good,'' she said. The scientific evidence is more equivocal.
 A study published last month in the European Journal of Applied Physiology showed that cold-water immersion did hasten muscle recovery and also reduced swelling in men assigned to complete repeated leg press exercises. Other studies haven't shown similar benefits from ice baths. 
 But Mahon, at least, believes ice baths are helpful in reducing swelling and soreness in his athletes, allowing them to return for another interval session within only a day or two. (Most sports medicine doctors suggest waiting until any significant muscle soreness is gone before repeating a hard workout.)
 TRY IT, YOU MIGHT LIKE IT
 ''It can be hard for an average runner to know what his real genetic potential is,'' Mahon said. ''Many runners pick a distance and stick with it.'' The dedicated, mediocre marathoner may never discover that nature had intended him to win his age group at 5Ks. 
 ''You have to run different distances,'' Hall said. ''Experiment. If I hadn't run that Fifth Avenue Mile, I wouldn't be doing the 1,500 now.'' 
 More systematically, Mahon says, track your performance during intervals. ''Are you excelling in the workouts that highlight intensity or those that highlight endurance?'' he said. ''We saw that Sara was topping the charts in intensity.'' She was clearly meant, he said, to be going hard, fast, and relatively short. 
 Destiny, of course, can be tweaked. Hall doesn't expect to contest the 1,500 for the rest of her career. ''The speed work that I'm doing now for the 1,500 will translate beautifully'' to the 5K, she said, should she decide to run that distance at the 2008 United States Olympic Trials or at future Olympics.
 Then there's the marathon, which has an ineluctable pull. ''Ryan makes the training look so fun,'' she said almost wistfully. But for now, ''I haven't reached my potential in the 1,500. There's still lots of speed to explore.''
 This article is the second in a series. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. G9
 G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); MARATHONS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



454 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Japan to Block Investment in Power Firm

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Japanese government said on Wednesday that it would block a British hedge fund from buying a larger stake in a power company, in a case that is being closely watched as a test of Japan's openness to foreign capital. 
 The trade ministry rejected a proposal by the hedge fund, the Children's Investment Fund, to increase its holdings in Electric Power Development, an electricity wholesale company, to as much as 20 percent, from 9.9 percent. The ministry was acting on the recommendation of a government-sponsored panel, which said the fund's short-term profit horizon could hurt the company's ability to provide electricity.
 The rejection is the latest in a series of setbacks for foreign investors in Japan that have raised questions about the country's commitment to welcoming foreign investment and business. Recently, Japan has appeared adrift in economic policy, seeming to waver between embracing the global economy and erecting barriers to keep it out.
 Japanese officials have insisted that the country remains open. They said that the electric company, commonly known as J-Power, was an exception because of its strategic role in supplying energy to Japanese homes and businesses. In its recommendation, the committee expressed concerns about the possibility of foreign investors getting access to sensitive technology used by the company, which operates nuclear power plants.
 The top government spokesman, Nobutaka Machimura, told reporters that the fund was just aiming for short-term profits and that the ministry's decision would not deter other foreign investors.
 ''This case is straightforwardly related to national security,'' Mr. Machimura said
 But John Ho, the head of the investment fund's Asian operations, called such concerns absurd, saying shareholders did not get access to sensitive technology. He said his interests were limited to improving returns for shareholders through actions like pressing the company to raise dividends.
 J-Power has rebuffed these requests, arguing it cannot raise the dividend because it needs the cash to invest in new power facilities and pay down debt.
 ''This is bad for Japan,'' Mr. Ho said. ''Japan is going in the wrong direction.''
 He compared his difficulties with those of other foreign funds that have run into resistance. The best known was the American investment fund Steel Partners, whose bid to take over Bull-Dog Sauce, a sauce maker, failed last year after Japan's Supreme Court ruled against the fund.
 The Children's Investment Fund has 10 days to respond to the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (89%); DIVIDENDS (86%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%)

COMPANY: BULL-DOG SAUCE CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: 2804 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



455 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Incentive in Sudan Talks: Normalized Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration could remove Sudan from an American list of state supporters of terrorism and normalize relations if the Sudanese government agreed, among other steps, to allow Thai and Nepalese peacekeepers in its Darfur region, says a document outlining the American negotiating position for talks with Sudan that began Wednesday.
 The document was part of a series of negotiating papers exchanged between the governments in preparation for talks in Rome. They were provided to The New York Times by an American government official critical of the administration's position. 
 Sudan has already promised to let United Nations peacekeepers operate within its borders, and human rights advocates and others say it would be a mistake for the United States to offer any new incentives until Sudan carries out that and other pledges.
 ''Given the fact that Khartoum has been involved in negotiations repeatedly over the years regarding Darfur and the comprehensive peace agreements and has signed documents and consistently failed to implement what they've signed, why are we discussing normalization with them?'' said Roger Winter, a former Sudan negotiator at the State Department. Richard Williamson, the United States envoy to Sudan, is in Rome for the talks with Sudanese officials. The broad thrust of the American position has been known, but the negotiating papers provide new details about the positions staked out by each side as they try to resolve differences over Darfur. 
 At least 200,000 people have been killed there since the Arab-dominated government of Sudan unleashed tribal militias known as the janjaweed on non-Arab rebel groups and civilians.
 The papers show that the United States is demanding that Sudan speed up visas for humanitarian workers and allow private aid organizations to work in Darfur. 
 Sudan wants an end to economic sanctions imposed by the United States since 1997. Sudan complained in the negotiating papers that sanctions had continued ''despite the many positive achievements'' by its government in Khartoum.
 In addition, Sudan wants United States backing for its membership in the World Trade Organization, American support for the cancellation of Sudan's foreign debts and ''the immediate release of the Sudanese detainees at Guantanamo.'' 
 Sudan is further seeking a formal apology for the Clinton administration-era strike on the Shifa pharmaceutical plant in Khartoum. It was destroyed by American cruise missiles in 1998 in the days after the terrorist attacks on the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
 American officials have acknowledged over the years that the evidence that prompted President Clinton to order the missile strike was not as solid as first portrayed, and have said that there was no proof that the plant had been linked to Osama bin Laden, a resident of Khartoum in the 1980s. But the United States has not ruled out the possibility that the plant did have some link to chemical weapons production.
 Bush administration officials have acknowledged in the past that they have offered to restore full diplomatic ties, lift economic sanctions and remove Sudan from the American list of state sponsors of terrorism in exchange for concessions on Darfur. 
 The Sudanese government says the death toll in Darfur has been exaggerated, and has denied an accusation from President Bush that the killing there amounts to genocide. 
 The Sudanese government has signed several peace agreements relating to Darfur or another internal conflict, in the non-Arab southern part of Sudan. But international aid organizations and American officials say that Sudan has failed to carry through on the promises it made in those agreements. 
 Sudanese Army bombs and new attacks by Arab militias in the ravaged western region of Darfur have driven thousands of refugees into neighboring Chad, according to the United Nations. In the oil-rich region of Abyei, which is claimed by both the government of Sudan and the semiautonomous government of South Sudan, several hundred people have died in recent clashes between a large group of Arab nomads, the Misseriya, and South Sudan's armed forces. Like the janjaweed militias, the Misseriya are armed by Sudan's government.
 Sudan, pressed by the Bush administration, signed a comprehensive peace agreement with the South in 2005, but President Omar Hassan al-Bashir has balked at carrying out major parts of the deal. 
 ''We see this process of potential improvement in the United States/Sudan relationship as a holistic one, covering the entirety of Sudan,'' said the text of the American negotiating document. 
 Sudanese officials, meanwhile, adopted a besieged air in their negotiating paper, complaining that the Darfur government had ''suffered the brunt of many punitive measures which were either totally unjustified and/or politically motivated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Senegalese peacekeeper did his morning salute this month at a base in Geneina, West Darfur. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



456 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Fever Is Rising Again

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Guns and Bitter'' (editorial, April 16):
 One cannot but express the disillusionment of independent as well as Democratic voters about the way Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama have been sparring over trivial issues that by and large do not affect the general well-being of America and its present state of affairs.
 The early charisma and hopes exuded by these two presidential contenders, both with the possibility of making history on the American political scene, seem to be fading fast with people's increasing disdain and disregard for this long and seemingly inconclusive battle for the Democratic presidential nomination.
 I am sure many like-minded voters will agree and hope that these two promising candidates do not lose sight of the core issues: the economic malaise, the snowballing subprime mortgage debacle, the growing inequity in income levels and taxation, the spiraling unaffordable health care and the open-ended wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which are adversely affecting every American in some way or another. 
 Atul M. Karnik Woodside, Queens, April 16, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Eggheads and Cheese Balls,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, April 16):
 I'll admit it: I am bitter, and most of the people I know are bitter. We feel powerless against a corrupt administration and a press that seems to focus on the shiniest object.
 Please concentrate on the issues that matter: there are two wars, a tanking economy, people without health care and there's a Republican running for president who doesn't seem to know much about the economy and who seems much too comfortable discussing the possibility of starting up a war with Iran. That scares and angers us more than any so-called misstatement about the mood of the country. 
 From what I see, this is a very weary country, and bitterness is not an outrageous assumption. 
 Mark Cutler Riverside, R.I., April 16, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd has it right when she says, ''Behind closed doors in San Francisco elitism's epicenter, Barack Obama showed his elitism, attributing the emotional, spiritual and cultural values of working-class, 'lunch pail' Pennsylvanians to economic woes.'' 
 I grew up in a small town of 6,000 in a valley in West Virginia and had the opportunity to visit there recently. The comments of Barack Obama that tried to explain the attitudes of people in similar small towns could not be further from the truth. 
 People in small towns have a great deal of pride. His comments certainly offended many of them. Those in small towns pull together in adversity through work in their churches and the local schools.
 They get involved in ways help their neighbor that those who live in big cities may not understand. Their religious faith is very important. Often the social and cultural life surrounds the church in which people worship.
 Some people in small towns love to fish and hunt, but many do not. But they do not fear others because they know one another, which makes gun ownership used for hunting more acceptable. 
 Barack Obama has more to learn about America than he realizes. Hillary Rodham Clinton has a far better grasp, as did her husband, President Bill Clinton, on the way Americans in small towns and rural communities think. 
 Mamie Jane Burdick Durham, N.C., April 16, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I just don't get it. After seven and a half years of a president who can't utter a coherent sentence, folks are calling Barack Obama elitist because he can actually speak English. 
 Even Hillary Rodham Clinton is dropping G's, as in hopin' and drinkin', to get more ''homey'' with the voters. She's downin' shots 'cause George W. Bush was the guy you'd want to have a beer with. 
 What have we become in this country? Barack Obama was saying, in times that are as difficult as these, gas prices closing in on $4 a gallon, a war costing billions of dollars, support money to things that are really important to all Americans axed out of budgets, we turn to those activities that give us some comfort. 
 Those activities are turning to our families, places of worship, activities that we are already good at -- hunting, knitting, praying or doing sudoku puzzles.
 Barack Obama isn't any more elitist than John McCain, Mrs. Clinton or any other politician. Not being able to bowl doesn't an elitist make, as downing a shot of Crown Royal (with gusto or not) doesn't make a president. 
 Alison Goodwin Schiff New York, April 16, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd says Barack Obama retreats into ''law professor mode'' and has an ''egghead quality'' about him. But don't we want a president who is smart? Who has gone to good schools? Who understands constitutional law? 
 I'll gladly vote for a presidential candidate who's snobby if it means he can fix our economy, address global warming and make peace with Iran. 
 Carrie Abels Boston, April 16, 2008
 To the Editor:
 What's wrong with the elites? In the 18th century, it was the socially and academically elite (Washington, Jefferson, Franklin) who forged the foundation of American independence. In the 20th century, economically elite dynasties (the Roosevelts, the Rockefellers and the Kennedys) had a profound effect on America's social and political evolution. 
 And have the conservatives succumbed to amnesia as to forget that their movement was singlehandedly crafted by the blue blood William F. Buckley Jr.? Thank heaven for elitism; otherwise, we'd be a very different country.
 Phil Hall Oxford, Conn., April 16, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Some Perspective on 'Bitter,' '' by Bob Herbert (column, April 15):
 Mr. Herbert has given Barack Obama excellent advice in urging him to confront the issues between himself and the working people of Pennsylvania head on with candor and honesty. 
 Each time that Mr. Obama's speeches have come transparently from his heart and innermost feelings, the people have responded with gratitude for his openness and admiration for his intelligence. He should address his race and background openly and thoroughly.
 His is as complicated a background as can be imagined for a candidate, but it is also a fascinating history of unusual, gifted, productive parents of totally different backgrounds who produced a remarkable son undoubtedly beyond their wildest imaginings and dreams. 
 Stanley B. Williams Atlanta, April 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert decries the portrayal of Senator Barack Obama by his critics as divisive after his condescending explanation of a lack of support among white working-class voters. Mr. Herbert finds such a portrayal ''perverse'' after Mr. Obama's efforts to promote a message of unity and healing, and particularly after the ''great insight and empathy'' of his race speech. 
 But that is exactly why some voters find his speeches ''just words'': we are looking not for great speeches but for the reality of the man, which will only be apparent over time, through his actions and in moments that are less consciously ''on message.'' 
 Karen Rockwell El-Badry Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., April 16, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); RELIGION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); SUBPRIME LENDING (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



457 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
GLOBAL SHORTAGE A drought that led to the collapse of rice production in Australia is contributing to skyrocketing prices around the world. 
 EBAY'S MR. FIX-IT John Donahoe, chief executive of eBay, has made a number of radical changes to the way the company operates, and the effect was beginning to be seen in the company's financial results, including a 22 percent increase in net income from the year ago quarter. [C1.] 
 THE EVOLUTION OF AIRLINES Thirty years after deregulation, the airline industry seems to be heading toward less competition, not more. [C1.]
 The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, posted a quarterly loss of $328 million, its biggest in more than two years, as fuel prices jumped and demand slowed. [C8.]
 LOWERING THE BAR JPMorgan Chase posted a decline in first-quarter income, and Wall Street cheered, sending the bank's stock up 6.7 percent. [C1.]
 A BLUE CHIP STUMBLES Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, faces challenges in the wake of the company's disappointing results in the first quarter. [C1.]
 WHEN LESS IS MORE A growing number of national retailers are abandoning the tradition of reporting monthly store sales and forecasting annual profit. [C1.]
 TICKLING THE IVORIES, DIGITALLY The Disklavier Mark IV from Yamaha is the first piano with an Internet connection. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 A NEW BRAND Thomson plans to raise its public profile with a global marketing effort when it completes its takeover of Reuters this week. Advertising. [C2.]
 I.B.M. POSTS A PROFIT Quarterly profit at I.B.M. rose 26 percent, surpassing analysts' forecasts, with operations in the United States showing strength in a weakening economy. [C3.]
 OLYMPIC FALLOUT Coca-Cola, a prominent sponsor of the Olympics, has become the focal point for protesters in the United States because of China's human rights record in Tibet. [C3.]
 PENSION FUNDS STRUGGLE Hurt by turmoil in the financial markets, America's biggest pension funds are likely to require larger contributions from their corporate sponsors this year. [C3.]
 'HEALING PROCESS HAS BEGUN' Although consumer prices rose slightly in March, economists welcomed signs that inflation had started to recede. [C4.]
 GROWTH IN CHINA The Chinese government reports that inflation and economic growth have slowed slightly, but the latest figures show that the economy still threatens to overheat. [C4.]
 A NEW CHAPTER Scrapbooking, once a pastime for mothers recording family memories, has blossomed into a fertile marketplace for personalized book creation. Basics. [C8.]
 FLIGHT INSURANCE If its takeover of Yahoo succeeds, Microsoft will need to offer a retention package to prevent talented employees from hopping to other jobs. [C9.]
 BUYING BINGE Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the billionaire financier, plans to buy stakes in a handful of struggling regional banks and combine them with mortgage-related companies his firm owns. [C10.]
 PRIVACY ADVOCATES In a New England Journal of Medicine article, two prominent doctors express concerns about the privacy implications of the push for online health records. [C11.]
 JAPAN BLOCKS INVESTMENT The Japanese trade ministry rejected a proposal by a British hedge fund to increase its holdings in a power company. [C13.]
 EMISSIONS FEE Air quality regulators in San Francisco are considering a fee for area businesses based on the amount of greenhouse gases they emit. [A19.] 

GRAPHIC: CHART: EBay stock per share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); BANK FAILURES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RICE FARMING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (64%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMR CORP (71%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN DONAHOE (73%); JEFFREY IMMELT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



458 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Russia Expands Support for Breakaway Regions in Georgia

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia announced Wednesday that it was broadly expanding support for two separatist regions in neighboring Georgia and would establish legal connections with the regions' de facto governments.
 The announcement, made by order of President Vladimir V. Putin, fell short of offering official recognition to Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the two breakaway regions, which have had self-rule and intensive Russian support since brief wars with Georgia after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
 But it signaled a comprehensive deepening of ties between the separatist enclaves and Russia, including in trade, agriculture, education, diplomacy and social support. Officials in the region said that in its long-term ambitions, Russia's enhanced engagement was modeled in part on American support for Taiwan. 
 The Georgian government, which has spurned the Kremlin in recent years and tightened relations with the West, reacted with alarm. It called on international support to block what David Bakradze, Georgia's foreign minister, called Russia's policy of ''creeping annexation.''
 Mr. Bakradze said Georgia would seek a special session of the United Nations Security Council. ''We will do everything we can do within diplomatic, political and legal international measures,'' he said by telephone, shortly after a session of Georgia's National Security Council.
 The Russian decree underscored a lingering diplomatic dispute from Mr. Putin's eight years in office and suggested that the Kremlin was seeking to assert itself more fully against Georgia in the weeks before Mr. Putin stepped down. He is scheduled to turn over the presidency next month to a protege, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has limited foreign policy experience and, to date, a less confrontational style.
 Russia has supported both enclaves since wars in the 1990s ended in stalemates that created them. Russia's anger at Georgia intensified in 2003 after Georgia's so-called Rose Revolution, when protests against a rigged election toppled the government and set the current Georgian government on a westward course.
 No nation recognizes Abkhazia or South Ossetia, which have endured only with Russia's assistance, and Russia has often tread lightly, offering support while officially staking a position of neutrality. But Russia had threatened to formalize its connections after Kosovo, in defiance of Russia's opinion and with support from the West, declared its independence from Serbia in February. Russia has also said it will increase its presence in response to Georgia's efforts to join NATO.
 Wednesday's decree said that Russian ministries would establish direct relations with their counterparts in the breakaway regions. Mr. Putin also ordered that consular services for residents of the regions be offered from an office just over the border inside Russia; most adults in the enclaves have Russian citizenship, part of the Kremlin's policy of offering passports to them.
 The announcement came as Abkhazia and South Ossetia, emboldened by Kosovo's declaration, have sought more foreign support. The de facto Abkhaz government has been repairing its long-idled civilian airport and hopes to establish direct air service to Russia and perhaps Turkey, where much of the Abkhaz diaspora lives.
 Maksim K. Gvindzhiya, Abkhazia's deputy foreign minister, said by telephone that he did not expect Russia to recognize the regions formally because it would bring a diplomatic burden on the Kremlin. But he welcomed the growing ties and said he was not concerned about foreign reaction. ''The political attitude is less important to us than the practical and economic,'' he said.
 He added that Russia's decision left open the possibility of more military collaboration, short of establishing Russian bases or conducting joint exercises. ''Support for the Abkhaz military in the form of logistics or ammunition, this is possible,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People shopped recently near Sukhumi, the capital of Abkhazia, a separatist enclave in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZBEK BASAYEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); CITIZENSHIP (63%); COUPS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (96%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



459 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Capital Available for the Right Ideas

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN

 BODY:
WITH all the grim earnings news from corporations and banks lately, not to mention the continuing credit squeeze and widespread talk of recession, it would seem that most small companies, too, would be having a hard time finding financing. 
 But that was not the case at a recent conference in Southern California, where 1,000 investment professionals came from all parts of the United States to hear and talk to 330 aspiring companies -- 50 of them from China. Many of the companies sought by investors were developing environmental, clean energy, cellphone, water treatment and biomedical technologies.
 The economic gloom actually encouraged the crowd, said Byron Roth, chairman of Roth Capital Partners, the Newport Beach, Calif., investment bank that was the host of the conference. These days, Mr. Roth said, ''established large companies may not offer earnings growth but we can show investment managers fast-growing small companies that few people in broader markets know about.'' 
 In addition, he said, investors with capital have less competition for choice properties ''because large investment banks and hedge funds are affected by the financial crisis and forced to hold back.'' Most companies at the Roth conference, in February, are publicly traded on Nasdaq and related over-the-counter markets. 
 ''What I like about these conferences is that I find small, growing companies before everybody else does,'' said Joseph C. McNay, who attended the Roth conference. Mr. McNay is chief investment officer and managing principal of Essex Investment Management, a firm based in Boston that handles $2.4 billion in investments for institutional and private family funds.
 The crowds and enthusiasm were similar at the Montgomery & Company Technology Conference in March in Santa Monica, Calif., which attracted more than 500 investors and 160 companies. Most companies at the Montgomery conference were privately held and worked mainly in the fields of social networking games and communications services for mobile communications devices. 
 ''The sentiment was very optimistic,'' said James W. Montgomery, the chairman of the firm, which has been raising money for small companies in media, communications and health care for 20 years. ''There is plenty of capital around because venture capital hasn't been in a bubble mode in recent years like real estate and debt markets.'' 
 It is also a good time for mobile phone companies ''because the infrastructure of the Internet has been built out,'' Mr. Montgomery added. ''So companies selling entertainment and services for phones can innovate on the Internet.'' 
 To be sure, financing for small companies is less generous and flamboyant than it was a few years ago, said Kenneth Kalb, a serial entrepreneur who has just started Analog Analytics, a company that he presented at the Montgomery conference. In recent years, the venture investment climate became overheated, Mr. Kalb said. 
 ''Private equity firms and venture capitalists would pour money into Internet solutions, investing more than $100 million and looking to earn 5 to 10 times their money in three to five years,'' he said. ''Now, it has returned to a business with more reasonable valuations. Small amounts of capital are invested but capable of earning a return in two to three years.'' 
 Fortunately, Internet services do not need a lot of capital to get going, he added. ''My investor group and I started the company for $1 million,'' said Mr. Kalb, who has founded and led two other companies in the last decade, selling the latest one last year. Analog Analytics uses database software to pinpoint for advertisers specifically who is seeing and reacting to their ads in newspapers, television and billboards. 
 Thomas Unterman, managing partner of Rustic Canyon Partners, a venture capital investment firm, agrees that the days are ''long gone when investors looked for returns of 10 times their money in three years.'' But there are hotly favored fields today. ''Anything clean or green technology, like solar energy, will attract funding immediately,'' Mr. Unterman said.
 Twenty-five ''green track'' companies presented at the Roth conference, including Basin Water Inc., a company that converts contaminated groundwater to drinking water and maintains water systems for municipalities and private companies. Based in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., the company, which had $18 million in revenue last year, is expanding operations across the United States, said Michael Stark, president and chief executive. ''I presented at the Roth conference to keep up awareness of our company in the investment community, not to raise capital,'' Mr. Stark said. 
 California has no monopoly on entrepreneurial companies, Mr. McNay of Essex Investment said. ''These days, good small companies crop up in Boston and Chicago, Austin, Tex., and many other places,'' he said. ''But California does have more of them.'' 
 Mr. McNay particularly liked the array of Chinese companies that Roth Capital brought to the conference. Those companies included China BAK Battery, a firm from Shenzhen, China, that makes lithium-ion batteries, and Sutor Technology Group, a Changshu company that makes steel finishing products for use in electrical appliances.
 ''Today's China companies are just like the small entrepreneurial outfits with a lot of promise that we helped bring along in the early 1990s,'' Mr. Roth said. 
 He reported that at least 10 acquisition or special financing transactions were initiated during the four-day conference. And possibly more long-term business was initiated because several ''blank check'' special purpose acquisition companies attended, Mr. Roth said. 
 Those companies, known as SPACs, raise money for the purpose of acquiring and then operating an existing company. One example is the Heckmann Corporation of Palm Desert, Calif., which was formed last November with $450 million of capital raised by two underwriters, Credit Suisse and Roth Capital.
 Richard Heckmann is chief executive of the new company, which will spend $1.7 million organizing itself and researching which companies to acquire and operate. His board includes former Vice President Dan Quayle; Alfred E. Osborne Jr., senior associate dean at the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles; and Lou Holtz, a former football coach and television analyst.
 Mr. Heckmann founded, built up and sold four companies over the last four decades, including U.S. Filter, a water treatment firm now owned by Siemens, and K2, a sporting goods company he sold last year to the Jarden Corporation. ''I saw this bubble bursting years ago,'' Mr. Heckmann said in an interview. ''Private equity funds, swelled by debt, were buying companies in sporting goods and every other field, bidding up prices for no good reason.''
 But now, in the downturn, he sees a new picture. ''Companies can't raise debt so there are opportunities for equity investment,'' Mr. Heckmann said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Byron Roth's investment banking firm sponsored a conference for entrepreneurs and investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); BIOMEDICINE (70%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: ROTH CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (57%); ESSEX INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



460 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: City's Coney Island Design Revised to Break Deadlock

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration has revised its redevelopment plan for the Coney Island waterfront in an effort to break a deadlock with some landowners and elected officials while still preserving the area's historic amusement district, which includes the Wonder Wheel and the Cyclone roller coaster. 
 The proposal, which would turn the area into a year-round attraction, still calls for a lot of stores and as many as 5,000 apartments along Surf Avenue, but it would reduce to 9 acres from 15 a city-owned open-air amusement park north of the Boardwalk between KeySpan Park and the New York Aquarium. 
 The city would buy the land for a permanent amusement district from local property owners including Thor Equities and the Vourderis family, which owns Deno's Amusement Park and the Wonder Wheel.
 But in a departure from the original plan unveiled in November by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, those owners would be able to develop the remaining parts of their property themselves as long as they followed the city's master plan, which must still undergo an environmental review and a land-use review.
 The city's plan for the area north of the amusement district calls for a series of buildings that could include a glass-enclosed water park, games and amusements, a bowling alley, restaurants and entertainment-oriented businesses like House of Blues, Dave & Busters, NikeTown and movie theaters. Finally, the new zoning would allow for hotel towers on the south side of Surf Avenue.
 ''This is a plan that will preserve the iconic nature of Coney Island and enhance the amusement district, while generating economic opportunities and jobs for local residents,'' Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber said. ''We're trying to bling it up.''
 The revised plan is the result of meetings with local property owners and others since November.
 ''I'm guardedly optimistic,'' said Jesse Masyr, a real estate lawyer for Thor Equities, which has been at loggerheads with the Bloomberg administration. ''We have to look at the size of sites we have left and what we could build.''
 As the largest landowner in the area, Thor was in a position to block the city's redevelopment plan, and appeared willing to wait out the Bloomberg administration. Thor's chairman, Joseph J. Sitt, has spent more than $120 million in recent years buying about 10 acres in the heart of Coney Island's traditional amusement district and developing his own $1.5 billion proposal for the area. 
 Mr. Sitt proposed a glitzy amusement park, as well as stores, game rooms and condominium hotels. But the city and some urban planners opposed generic retailing and any housing near the Boardwalk, saying that it would inevitably crush a noisy, late-night amusement district.
 In recent months, the two sides have been discussing a mutually acceptable compromise. Mr. Sitt's recent counterproposal called for a smaller, 6.5-acre amusement area and far more stores and hotels -- 2.9 million square feet -- spread over 24 acres. The city's revised plan allows for 1.9 million square feet.
 Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr., a critic of the original plan who has supported Thor, said the city was headed in the right direction, as did Dennis Vourderis, of the family that owns the Wonder Wheel.
 ''We're optimistic,'' Mr. Vourderis said. ''We're hoping that they're going to let us develop our own properties.''
 The glory days of Coney Island's amusement parks are long gone, and the area is speckled with empty lots and dingy buildings. But the old-fashioned rides, sword swallowers, go-carts, wide-open beaches and cool breezes still attract hundreds of thousands of visitors in the summer months.
 The ''stars may finally be realigning,'' said Brooklyn's borough president, Marty Markowitz, a longtime advocate of revitalizing Coney Island. 
 ''Coney Island was always a working-class playground,'' he said. ''We should preserve the amusements for future generations. I welcome a water park, movie theaters, a bowling alley and House of Blues. I do not want to see another generic shopping mall.''
 The key issue for all sides is how to attract visitors to Coney Island in the winter, when the area is cold and windswept. Mr. Sitt had insisted on traditional retail space and housing to offset the cost of the amusements. But the redevelopment plan goes beyond the amusement district. There are plans for housing and retail businesses on the north side of Surf Avenue and west of the KeySpan ballpark.
 In recent months, the Bloomberg administration has sought to redesign and refurbish the historic 271-foot-tall Coney Island Parachute Jump, which sits on 2.2 acres west of the amusement district. The centerpiece of the new plaza would be the restored Bishoff & Brienstein carousel, and could include a glass pavilion, an observation deck and restaurants.
 Mr. Sitt is bringing the Reithoffer Shows traveling carnival to Coney Island from May 22 through June 1. The Astroland amusements, which Mr. Sitt bought and planned to close, will also reopen for one more season.
 Both sides need a victory. Many of the city and state's development plans have been battered by a slowing economy and the credit crisis, which has effectively ended lending for large-scale real estate projects. 
 So if Mr. Sitt fails to compromise on Coney Island, he risks alienating City Hall and jeopardizing two other projects he would like to build on the Brooklyn waterfront. He has proposed a $100 million shopping center at a former bus depot along Shore Parkway in Bensonhurst, where he lives. In Red Hook, Mr. Sitt bought the long dormant Revere sugar works, and would like to build a marina and luxury apartments there, next to the soon-to-open Ikea furniture store.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: CONEY ISLAND PLANS: The city has revised the plan that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled in November for redeveloping the Coney Island waterfront. The new plan allows more private development.
CITY PLAN: The city's original plan included a 15-acre amusement park west of the Cyclone.
THOR EQUITIES: The developer's plan cut the open-air amusement area to 6.5 acres, but included enclosed areas.
 REVISED CITY PLAN: The new design cuts the amusement park area down to 9 acres. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); WATER PARKS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (75%); CITIES (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (57%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (57%); NG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



461 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Proposes Auctioning Runway Slots to Curb Delays at La Guardia

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The federal Department of Transportation on Wednesday proposed auctioning landing and departure slots to airlines at La Guardia Airport to reduce persistent delays. The move drew immediate criticism from the Port Authority, Gov. David A. Paterson and Senator Charles E. Schumer.
 The proposal, by Mary E. Peters, the transportation secretary, is part of the federal government's drive to introduce market-based pricing measures for institutional users of airports, highways and other transportation facilities. Toll agencies, airlines and others who use these facilities have generally opposed such measures, arguing that the costs will ultimately be passed on to consumers. 
 Secretary Peters's proposal includes two options for La Guardia, which has had limits on landing and departure slots for 40 years but still has some of the worst delays in the country. 
 In both options, carriers would get to keep up to 20 of their slots a day for 10 years. The first option would include auctioning 8 percent of airlines' remaining slots for the first five years and retiring 2 percent of their slots. The money from these auctions would be used by the Federal Aviation Administration to expand capacity in the New York region.
 The second option would include auctioning 20 percent of the airlines' remaining slots, but the airlines would retain the net proceeds, effectively creating a secondary market for slots among them.
 The carrier with the largest presence at La Guardia, US Airways, had 396 departures and landings scheduled there on Thursday; the smallest, Frontier Airlines, had 4. 
 ''Our plan strikes a sound balance between protecting investments by incumbent carriers and ensuring that all airlines have the ability to fly to New York's La Guardia,'' Secretary Peters said in a statement. ''While the status quo at La Guardia has led to stagnant service, delays and unnecessarily high fares, open access and competition will help give fliers more choices, fewer delays and lower fares.''
 James C. May, president of the Air Transport Association, an industry group, sharply criticized the proposal, saying, ''It is truly mystifying, with the airline industry in a financial meltdown due to overwhelming fuel prices, that D.O.T. decides now is the time for a costly economics experiment at La Guardia.''
 The Port Authority, which operates the three largest airports in the New York region, opposes the auctioning of slots because, like many airlines, the agency says that it will not add capacity for additional flights, and that the cost of the auctions could lead to higher ticket prices.
 ''The D.O.T. and F.A.A.'s actions today ultimately would reduce choices for customers, make flying more expensive, and cut service to small cities that otherwise have no flights to New York City,'' the agency said in a statement.
 Governor Paterson called the federal government's proposal ''woefully misguided,'' and echoed the Port Authority's contention that passengers would end up paying more for tickets. 
 Also on Wednesday, the Department of Transportation doubled the limit on the compensation that airlines must pay to passengers who are involuntarily bumped from their flights. Starting next month, these travelers would receive up to $400 in cash if they reach their destination within two hours of their original arrival time, or four hours for international flights. They would receive up to $800 if they arrive more than two hours after their scheduled arrival time for domestic flights.
 Payments are determined by the price of the ticket and the length of the delay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR FARES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (91%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MARY PETERS (78%); DAVID PATERSON (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



462 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls for U.S. to Halt Rise in Gas Emissions by 2025

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush called Wednesday for the United States to stop the growth of greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 and challenged other countries, including major polluters like China and India, to abandon trade barriers on energy-related technology and commit to goals of their own.
 The White House cast Mr. Bush's announcement in the Rose Garden as an ambitious effort by a president determined to lead on the climate change issue, even with just nine months left in office. 
 But critics -- including environmentalists, scientists and lawmakers -- said the effort was too little, too late. They accused Mr. Bush of trying to derail legislation that would curb emissions even further. And because he did not offer any specifics for how to reach his 2025 goal, they dismissed the speech as irrelevant.
 ''It is now time for the U.S. to look beyond 2012 and take the next step,'' Mr. Bush said, a reference to his previously stated national goal, announced in 2002, of an 18 percent reduction in the growth of emissions of heat-trapping gases relative to economic growth by 2012. Mr. Bush said the nation was on track to meeting that target.
 The speech was intended to influence an international conference on climate change, which is convening in Paris on Thursday. The conference is the outgrowth of a process Mr. Bush initiated last year, when he called together major polluting nations and urged them to come together by the end of 2009 around a common goal for the long-term reduction of emissions.
 But Mr. Bush's talk was also a slap at the Democratic-controlled Senate, which is about to consider legislation that would impose limits on emissions and allow companies to trade pollution credits -- the so-called ''cap and trade'' approach. The White House vehemently opposes that approach, a point Mr. Bush restated on Wednesday.
 ''Bad legislation would impose tremendous costs on our economy and on American families without accomplishing important climate change goals we share,'' Mr. Bush warned.
 But rather than outlining his own legislative proposal, Mr. Bush emphasized advances in technology, like clean-coal energy, wind power and farm-grown fuels like ethanol, as a means to achieving emissions reductions. As he has in the past, he said the route to reducing emissions was through the free market and incentives for companies to invest -- as opposed to mandates or new taxes.
 ''The wrong way is to raise taxes, duplicate mandates, or demand sudden and drastic emissions cuts that have no chance of being realized and every chance of hurting our economy,'' he said. ''The right way is to set realistic goals for reducing emissions consistent with advances in technology.''
 Climate change is emerging as a powerful issue in the presidential race, with all the candidates, including Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, on record as supporting some kind of ''cap-and-trade'' program.
 The chief sponsors of the Senate bill, Senators John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said they expected their legislation to go forward.
 Experts say that under the Warner-Lieberman bill, overall emissions in 2025 would drop from 2005 levels by as much as 32 percent. 
 ''The train is moving toward legislation to control heat-trapping gases in the U.S.,'' David Sandalow, an expert on climate change who worked for the Clinton administration, said in reaction to the speech. ''President Bush's announcement appears to be an effort to throw sand in the gears, offering a weak goal in place of strong legislation.''
 Mr. Bush has faced international criticism for his views on climate change since the beginning of his presidency. He has steadfastly rejected the so-called Kyoto Protocol, which limits emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide, on the ground that China and India -- two of the world's biggest polluters -- were not bound by the accord in the same way as the United States would be if it joined. Instead, Mr. Bush emphasized a voluntary approach to reducing the gas emissions.
 Experts say it is unlikely that Mr. Bush could reach his goal of flattening emissions by 2025 without some kind of mandatory cap. Michael Oppenheimer, an author on several of the recent reports from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and a climate expert at Princeton University, said that even if Mr. Bush somehow set the country on track to meet his target, he was sending the wrong signal to other nations.
 ''U.S. failure to do more than stabilize emissions by 2025 likely means other developed countries won't do any more than that, and that then ripples through to China's position,'' Mr. Oppenheimer said, adding that it is difficult to see how the world could avoid dangerous warming and sea-level rise under the Bush proposal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush speaking about climate change Wednesday in the White House Rose Garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX INCREASES (68%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); ALCOHOLS (65%); ETHANOL (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



463 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Who's Bitter Now?

BYLINE: By LARRY M. BARTELS. 
Larry M. Bartels, the director of the Center for the Study of Democratic Politics at Princeton, is the author of ''Unequal Democracy: The Political Economy of the New Gilded Age.''

DATELINE: Princeton, N.J. 

 BODY:
 DURING Wednesday night's Democratic presidential debate in Philadelphia, Barack Obama once more tried to explain what he meant when he suggested earlier this month that small-town people of modest means ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them'' out of frustration with their place in a changing American economy. Mr. Obama acknowledged that his wording offended some voters, but he also reiterated his impression that ''wedge issues take prominence'' when voters are frustrated by ''difficult times.''
 Last week in Terre Haute, Ind., Mr. Obama explained that the people he had in mind ''don't vote on economic issues, because they don't expect anybody's going to help them.'' He added: ''So people end up, you know, voting on issues like guns, and are they going to have the right to bear arms. They vote on issues like gay marriage. And they take refuge in their faith and their community and their families and things they can count on. But they don't believe they can count on Washington.'' 
 This is a remarkably detailed and vivid account of the political sociology of the American electorate. What is even more remarkable is that it is wrong on virtually every count. 
 Small-town people of modest means and limited education are not fixated on cultural issues. Rather, it is affluent, college-educated people living in cities and suburbs who are most exercised by guns and religion. In contemporary American politics, social issues are the opiate of the elites.
 For the sake of concreteness, let's define the people Mr. Obama had in mind as people whose family incomes are less than $60,000 (an amount that divides the electorate roughly in half), who do not have college degrees and who live in small towns or rural areas. For the sake of convenience, let's call these people the small-town working class, though that term is inevitably imprecise. In 2004, they were about 18 percent of the population and about 16 percent of voters.
 For purposes of comparison, consider the people who are their demographic opposites: people whose family incomes are $60,000 or more, who are college graduates and who live in cities or suburbs. These (again, conveniently labeled) cosmopolitan voters were about 11 percent of the population in 2004 and about 13 percent of voters. While admittedly crude, these definitions provide a systematic basis for assessing the accuracy of Mr. Obama's view of contemporary class politics.
 Small-town, working-class people are more likely than their cosmopolitan counterparts, not less, to say they trust the government to do what's right. In the 2004 National Election Study conducted by the University of Michigan, 54 percent of these people said that the government in Washington can be trusted to do what is right most of the time or just about always. Only 38 percent of cosmopolitan people expressed a similar level of trust in the federal government.
 Do small-town, working-class voters cast ballots on the basis of social issues? Yes, but less than other voters do. Among these voters, those who are anti-abortion were only 6 percentage points more likely than those who favor abortion rights to vote for President Bush in 2004. The corresponding difference for the rest of the electorate was 27 points, and for cosmopolitan voters it was a remarkable 58 points. Similarly, the votes cast by the cosmopolitan crowd in 2004 were much more likely to reflect voters' positions on gun control and gay marriage.
 Small-town, working-class voters were also less likely to connect religion and politics. Support for President Bush was only 5 percentage points higher among the 39 percent of small-town voters who said they attended religious services every week or almost every week than among those who seldom or never attended religious services. The corresponding difference among cosmopolitan voters (34 percent of whom said they attended religious services regularly) was 29 percentage points.
 It is true that American voters attach significantly more weight to social issues than they did 20 years ago. It is also true that church attendance has become a stronger predictor of voting behavior. But both of those changes are concentrated primarily among people who are affluent and well educated, not among the working class.
 Mr. Obama's comments are supposed to be significant because of the popular perception that rural, working-class voters have abandoned the Democratic Party in recent decades and that the only way for Democrats to win them back is to cater to their cultural concerns. The reality is that John Kerry received a slender plurality of their votes in 2004, while John F. Kennedy and Hubert Humphrey, in the close elections of 1960 and 1968, lost them narrowly.
 Mr. Obama should do as well or better among these voters if he is the Democratic candidate in November. If he doesn't, it won't be because he has offended the tender sensitivities of small-town Americans. It will be because he has embraced a misleading stereotype of who they are and what they care about. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA DEZSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); RELIGION (77%); FAMILY (76%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); MARRIAGE (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



464 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: In Tense Debate, Clinton Employs Sharp Attacks

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama found himself consistently on the defensive as he and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton met Wednesday night in a tense debate that left him parrying questions and criticism on issues including values, patriotism and his association with onetime radicals from the 1960s.
 It was the first time the two candidates had shared a debate stage in seven weeks, and it came six days before a primary in Pennsylvania that could determine whether Mrs. Clinton can continue her quest for the Democratic presidential nomination. It could also prove to be the last debate between them. 
 Accordingly, Mrs. Clinton did not let an opportunity pass as she repeatedly challenged Mr. Obama on his record and views -- assisted, as it turned out, by vigorous questioning by the two moderators from ABC News, Charles Gibson and George Stephanopolous.
 The result was arguably one of Mr. Obama's weakest debate performances. He at times appeared annoyed as he sought to answer questions about his former pastor, his reluctance to wear an American flag pin on his lapel and his association in Chicago with former members of the Weather Underground, a radical group that carried out bombings in the 1960s that were intended to incite the overthrow of the government. 
 With a few exceptions -- one being when he recalled Mrs. Clinton's dismissive statement in 1992 about not wanting to spend her life at home baking cookies, an attempt to counter her attacks on his recent statements about religion and small-town values -- Mr. Obama chose not to go after his rival aggressively, even when he was asked whether voters considered her honest.
 The political implications of his performance remained unclear. As Mrs. Clinton was again reminded by a poll Wednesday in The Washington Post, there are risks to going on the attack as she has over the past six weeks: She is viewed unfavorably by an increasingly large number of voters. Mrs. Clinton can afford nothing short of a strong victory in Pennsylvania's primary on Tuesday as she looks for a rationale to proceed with her candidacy and stir doubts about Mr. Obama's ability to appeal to white, blue-collar voters. 
 But Mrs. Clinton's audience in attacking Mr. Obama and his electability was not just voters here, but also the unaligned Democratic superdelegates -- elected officials and party leaders -- whose choices are going to determine who wins the nomination. That was particularly clear when Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama tangled over his statement at a California fund-raiser that many small-town voters who are bitter over their economic circumstances ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them.''
 Mr. Obama said that he had misspoken and that he understood why voters would be offended by those remarks. But he accused Mrs. Clinton of seeking to parse his words for political gain in a way that he said accounted for widespread cynicism about politics.
 ''So the problem that we have in our politics, which is fairly typical, is that you take one person's statement, if it's not properly phrased, and you just beat it to death,'' he said. ''And that's what Senator Clinton's been doing over the last four days.''
 ''She has gone through this,'' he said. ''You know, I recall when back in 1992, when she made a statement about how, 'what do you expect, should I be at home baking cookies?' And people attacked her for being elitist and this and that. And I remember watching that on TV and saying, well, that's not who she is; that's not what she believes; that's not what she meant. And I'm sure that that's how she felt as well.''
 But Mrs. Clinton tersely rejected Mr. Obama's explanation. ''I can see why people would be taken aback and offended by the remarks,'' Mrs. Clinton said, adding, ''It wasn't just me responding to them, it was people who heard them, people who felt as though they were aimed at their values, their quality of life, the decisions that they have made.''
 Mrs. Clinton appeared, for the most part, calm and in control, particularly when the discussion moved to such questions as how the two candidates would respond to an attack by Iran on Israel and whether they would promise not to raise taxes as president. Both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama said they would not raise taxes on middle class Americans -- those making less than $200,000 to $250,000 a year -- though Mr. Obama, pressed by a questioner, acknowledged that he had said he was open to making more income below that threshold subject to the Social Security payroll tax. They also had differences on the capital gains tax; Mrs. Clinton said that if she were to raise it from its current 15 percent level, it would not be to above 20 percent, while Mr. Obama said he would consider raising it as high as 28 percent.
 While the tone remained civil on the surface, the displays of affection that both had engaged in during some of their previous encounters -- back slaps and lingering handshakes -- were replaced by shots of the two candidates staring tensely at each other or gazing into the darkened auditorium at The National Constitution Center. 
 There was a brief moment of lightness at the start when Mr. Gibson asked whether either would endorse a proposal by Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York, to promise that whoever wins the nomination choose the other as his or her running mate, and that the loser would accept. ''So I put the question to both of you: Why not?''
 The lengthening silence from the two candidates was filled by the laughter of the crowd. 
 On issue after issue, Mrs. Clinton raised stern questions about Mr. Obama's electability. 
 ''I have a lot of baggage, and everybody has rummaged through it for years,'' Mrs. Clinton said, drawing laughter. ''And so therefore, I have, you know, an opportunity to come to this campaign with a very strong conviction and feeling that I will be able to withstand whatever the Republican sends our way.''
 It took two answers -- and a nudging from Mr. Stephanopoulos -- before Mrs. Clinton answered whether she believed Mr. Obama could win.
 ''Yes, yes, yes,'' she replied, quickly adding, ''I think I am better able and better prepared.''
 At several points during the debate, the candidates were shown videotaped questions from voters in Pennsylvania. A woman from Latrobe, identified as Nash McCabe, pointedly asked Mr. Obama about his patriotism, saying: ''I want to know if you believe in the American flag.''
 ''I revere the American flag,'' said Mr. Obama, who does not regularly wear a flag lapel pin. ''And I would not be running for president if I did not revere this country.''
 But throughout the 90-minute debate, Mr. Obama was placed on the defensive, explaining his association with his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., as well as his connection to Bill Ayers, a Chicago supporter who was a member of the Weatherman Underground and is now a professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
 Those issues were raised in a tough round of questions posed by Mr. Stephanopoulos and Mr. Gibson, who in many ways presented a mirror image of earlier debates in which two NBC moderators, Tim Russert and Brian Williams, repeatedly pressed Mrs. Clinton with tough and provocative questions.
 But if the moderators put Mr. Obama on the defensive, Mrs. Clinton pressed her advantage at every opportunity, at one point invoking the name of Louis Farrakhan, the National of Islam leader, who has endorsed Mr. Obama. 
 ''This is a legitimate area,'' she said, ''as everything is when we run for office.''
 Mrs. Clinton seemed well prepared to push the question of Mr. Ayers, citing details of Mr. Obama's association with him as a fellow board member for the Woods Fund of Chicago. Mr. Obama, equally well prepared, responded by noting that Bill Clinton had, as president, pardoned the sentences of two other members of the Weather Underground.
 ''By Senator Clinton's own vetting standards, I don't think she would make it, since President Clinton pardoned or commuted the sentences of two members of the Weather Underground, which I think is a slightly more significant act than me serving on a board with somebody for actions he did 40 years ago,'' he said.
 After Mr. Obama made his remark at the California fund-raiser about the traditions of people who own guns, Mrs. Clinton told audiences at campaign stops that her father showed her how to shoot as a young girl. The issue, one that most Democrats have not found comfortable terrain, came up again at the debate, with Mr. Obama suggesting that he understood the issue to be almost one of family values. 
 ''You know, when you listen to people who have hunted, and they talk about the fact that they went hunting with their fathers or their mothers, then that is something that is deeply important to them and, culturally, they care about deeply,'' he said.
 And Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama said that as president, they would execute promises to begin the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq, even if their military commanders at the time advised them that it would be wiser to keep troops on the ground.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama speaking with Charles Gibson, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton with George Stephanopoulos. Chelsea Clinton was in the audience Wednesday night at the Democratic presidential candidates' debate in Philadelphia. Audience members watched the debate between Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama on a screen at the National Constitution Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SUPERDELEGATES (76%); RELIGION (72%); BOMBINGS (66%); FUNDRAISING (61%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



465 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: British Leader Visits U.S. in Pope's Shadow

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and JOHN F. BURNS; Sandy Macaskill contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Lambasted at home by foes across the political spectrum, Prime Minister Gordon Brown began a formal visit to the United States on Wednesday, and even there he seemed to some Britons to face eclipse by a simultaneous sojourn in America by Pope Benedict XVI.
 British news reports made pointed comparisons between the prime minister's three days in New York, Washington and Boston, and Benedict's closely chronicled visit. 
 As the British newspaper The Guardian remarked in a headline: ''U.S. prepares a rapturous welcome for world leader. And the P.M. is there too.''
 To explain the scheduling overlap, a British official said the people who had planned Mr. Brown's trip were not initially aware that it would clash with the pope's visit. By the time the double-billing became known, it was too late.
 While in the United States, Mr. Brown planned to discuss an array of issues, including African matters, Iraq and Afghanistan, at meetings at the United Nations and at the White House, said a British official who spoke on the condition of anonymity under civil service rules.
 Mr. Brown began his tenure as prime minister with a conscious effort to distance himself from the war in Iraq and to draw back from a relationship with President Bush that had British columnists mocking Tony Blair, the previous prime minister, as Mr. Bush's ''poodle.''
 But Downing Street officials have been playing down the differences over Iraq, and Mr. Brown now appears to be looking to the United States for a way to redress his sinking political fortunes at home over a variety of perceived missteps.
 He has scheduled meetings on Thursday in Washington with Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain, all presidential candidates. Like Mr. Blair, Mr. Brown apparently hopes to position himself as America's bridge to Europe when a new president takes power.
 He is competing for the title of America's best friend in Europe against newer contenders, notably President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, restored to political power in elections this week. But, evoking Britain's sense of a ''special relationship'' with Washington, he seems eager to rebuild Britain's bond with the United States. 
 ''I feel I can bring Europe and America closer together for the future,'' Mr. Brown told CBS News. ''That will be to the advantage of all of us.''
 On the global economic crisis, Mr. Brown, Britain's top financial official in the 10-year Blair era, planned discussions with an array of Americans, including the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. He had lunch in New York on Wednesday with leading American bankers and financial executives, The Associated Press reported. He also addressed the United Nations Security Council and met with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Britain faces many of the problems that have pushed the United States toward recession, declining real estate prices, slowing growth, higher food and energy prices and ever tighter constraints on credit. 
 The economic crisis has an added dimension because Mr. Brown has always presented his economic stewardship as a source of prosperity and stability. But his reputation has begun to fray as the credit crisis provokes charges of mismanagement. 
 ''The public, battered by rising prices in food, fuel and taxation, start to see how bad things are,'' Simon Heffer, a columnist, wrote in the anti-Labor Daily Telegraph. ''So do Mr. Brown's members of Parliament. And all apart from him know what a large share of the blame he must take.''
 Since World War II, Britain has positioned itself as America's closest ally, ready to share defense burdens to which other allies have been less committed. In Afghanistan, the relationship remains strong.
 But Iraq is another story. Mr. Brown's action to order British troops out of the center of Basra to the city's airport, and announcing plans to halve the British force to 2,500 troops by this spring, prompted barely muted disdain in some quarters of the Bush administration.
 Mr. Brown's critics in London and Washington said the British pullback left Basra to the mercies of Shiite militia gangs and a rampant criminal mafia. On April 1, his government postponed the planned troop reduction indefinitely in the wake of a bungled attempt by Iraq's prime minister to regain control of Basra. 
 The sequence of events was deeply embarrassing for Britain and left Mr. Brown, heading for Washington, without a clear Iraq policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gordon Brown in an interview in New York on Wednesday. He is to meet with President Bush in Washington on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN ROUSSEAU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); WRITERS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (78%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



466 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Giving $100 Million to Fight Dropouts

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
AT&T plans to announce a $100 million gift on Thursday intended to address the problem of high school dropouts and to improve the skills of the nation's work force. 
 The gift, which will be distributed over four years, is among the largest corporate donations on record, but it is the second $100 million donation announced by a company this year. Last month, Goldman, Sachs & Company announced it would spend at least the same amount over 10 years to advance women's business education in the developing world.
 ''We view it like any other investment we make,'' said Ralph de la Vega, president and chief executive of AT&T Mobility, the company's wireless operations. ''It's an investment in our future as well as the communities in which we work.''
 A recent report by America's Promise Alliance, a nonprofit started by former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, found that roughly one-third of American high school students, or about 1.2 million people, leave school before graduating. 
 Additionally, the unemployment rate among Americans with less than a high school education in March was 60 percent higher than among those who completed high school, according to AT&T.
 Traditionally, companies have been cautious about spending their money on philanthropy, worried about angering shareholders.
 Laura Sanford, president of the AT&T Foundation, said the company had conducted focus groups last fall with investors to determine how they felt about spending on charity.
 ''We found out that they think it is required,'' Ms. Sanford said. ''They're not going to invest in companies that aren't socially engaged.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a $100 million donation from AT&T to fight the problem of high school dropouts misstated the time frame of a similarly large gift by Goldman, Sachs & Company this year to advance women's business education. That donation will be given over a five-year period, not 10 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); WOMEN (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (90%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



467 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The Sorry Myth of Brucellosis

 BODY:
Every winter, some 22,000 elk drift out of Yellowstone toward lower elevations in Wyoming, lured to state-maintained feed grounds. Their natural range would be the river bottoms and sage flats. For decades, most of that range, much of it public land, has been given over to cattle. 
 The stated reason for keeping the elk away is a disease called brucellosis, which causes spontaneous abortion in cattle and is carried by elk. The real reason is that the range cannot support both cattle and elk. The trouble now is that a far more serious and inevitably fatal disease, called chronic wasting disease, is approaching the elk feed grounds -- where it could be catastrophic. 
 Brucellosis is essentially a political myth, valuable for keeping the range under cattle. For years, ranchers warned that losing its brucellosis-free status would devastate the Wyoming livestock industry. But when the disease appeared in Wyoming cattle in 2004, the economic effect on ranchers was negligible. The pattern of elk management also undermines their arguments. If elk were allowed to disperse at will, the disease would quickly burn itself out, while concentrating the herds at feeding grounds perpetuates it. 
 No one knows whether chronic wasting disease infects cattle (or humans), but among deer and elk it is always fatal. It is closely related to mad-cow disease, and it has been spreading fast. It is now about 120 miles from Wyoming's southernmost feed grounds. In the wild, infection rates are very low for elk. But scientists estimate that in the crowded feed grounds, the rates could reach from 40 percent to as high as 80 percent. Since the disease tends to persist in the soil, the feed grounds could be contaminated for years to come. 
 So far, there is no way to prevent chronic wasting disease. The best hope is to close the winter feed grounds and allow elk herds to resume more natural migration patterns. Ranchers and the Wyoming Fish and Game Department, which is largely controlled by ranchers, oppose that idea. It is well past time for Wyoming to recognize that the disease poses a far more serious threat than brucellosis and begin phasing out the winter feed grounds. Only that will save thousands of elk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (77%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (77%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); RIVERS (72%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); MISCARRIAGES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



468 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Safeway Restricts Purchases of Chilean Salmon, Citing Fish Virus

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting from Santiago, Chile.

DATELINE: ASUNCION, Paraguay 

 BODY:
Safeway, among the largest supermarket chains in the United States, has restricted some purchases of farm-raised Chilean salmon over concerns about a virus that is killing millions of fish there. 
 The supermarket chain decided late last month to stop buying from its supplier of Chilean salmon, Marine Harvest, because the virus for infectious salmon anemia, or I.S.A., was ''impacting the quality of the product,'' Brian Dowling, a Safeway spokesman, said this week. He said the virus, which does not pose a risk to humans, was nevertheless affecting the size of the salmon, ''which impacts the quality and the taste.''
 After Safeway made its decision, Marine Harvest announced April 10 that Torben Petersen, its top executive in Chile, had resigned and left the company. Marine Harvest, based in Oslo, is the world's largest producer of farmed salmon and has viewed Chile as a major expansion area.
 Eleven of the 21 fish farms in Chile that have been affected by the outbreak are operated by Marine Harvest, which discovered the virus in July. The Chilean national fishing agency, Sernapesca, said last week that the number of affected farms had risen to 21, and that 17 more were under observation, 13 of them Marine Harvest's. Chile has 1,035 salmon farms, Sernapesca said. 
 Marine Harvest announced Monday that it had closed one of its three processing plants in Puerto Montt and laid off nearly 600 employees because of a reduction in harvesting volumes. The sudden closing seemed to accelerate a plan previously announced by the company to cut 1,200 workers, or one-fourth of its Chilean operation, by June because of the spreading virus. 
 The layoffs are all in southern Chile, where the economy relies heavily on salmon production. Mr. Petersen, 62, is being replaced by Alvaro Jimenez Seminario, a Marine Harvest executive in Chile, until a permanent successor is chosen, the company said. Efforts to locate Mr. Petersen or to contact him through the company were not successful.
 SalmonChile, the salmon industry association, citing information from Marine Harvest, said that Mr. Petersen had left to pursue ''personal projects.'' He continues to have a relationship with the company as an adviser, said Cesar Barros, the association's chairman.
 Safeway made its decision to restrict some purchases of Chilean salmon after an article on March 27 in The New York Times reported the spread of the virus and detailed concerns by biologists and environmentalists about the elevated use of antibiotics in the country's salmon industry. The article also reported researchers' claims that salmon farms were contaminating fishing waters and creating stresses that could be spawning illnesses in the fish.
 SalmonChile has blamed Marine Harvest for the virus problem, but vigorously defended its industry. ''The Chilean salmon industry has 20 years producing a healthy and beneficial food for the consumer, and takes pride in the quality of its product, whose benefits are endorsed by numerous scientific studies,'' Mr. Barros said.
 The United States Food and Drug Administration said in March that it was planning an inspection trip to assess Chile's overall controls on its farmed salmon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (91%); AQUACULTURE (90%); FINFISH FARMING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BIOLOGY (66%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

COMPANY: BOOKER PLC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); PARAGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



469 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'GOD'S EAR'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Explaining the Unbearable, if Only in Fragments

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Words gush forth in torrents, spewing up like geysers on a ghostly plain, in ''God's Ear,'' an arrestingly odd new play by Jenny Schwartz that will surely fascinate many, even as it exasperates others. (I found myself ping-ponging between both responses.) The haunted man and woman who move through this hallucinatory work almost seem to be drowning in speech, as they cope with a personal tragedy by spraying streams of fractured, fragmentary babble into the darkness around them.
 Seated in a chair in a shaft of cold light, a visibly anguished woman named Mel (Christina Kirk) opens the play by bleating a telegraphic speech of horrific details at the man beside her, who we will soon discover is her husband. 
 ''He's in a coma,'' she says. ''He's hooked up to a respirator. He has a pulse. He has brain damage.''
 The brutal economy of the words cuts like a knife into tender flesh, but these clipped sentences are almost the last in the play in which information will be given in a straightforward manner, in which words will be allowed to draw blood.
 Mel and Ted (Gibson Frazier), recoiling from the near-drowning of their young son, will spend the rest of the play trying to obliterate the ability of language to convey meaning. As they tear apart the seams of normal syntax and sense, communication is reduced to a kind of rhymeless doggerel verse composed of catch phrases and banal chatter, non sequiturs and puns and reams and reams of cliches. Even the rare emotionally blunt passages are bleached of sense by repetition.
 Embarking on separate odysseys of suffering that intersect on some sort of psychic plain, Mel and Ted slide down a rabbit hole into an alternate reality, where a toddler cracks wise, the Tooth Fairy sings grimly comic little ditties (''If misery loves company, why am I standing here alone?'') and G.I. Joe offers family counseling. Desperately seeking to deny the horror that has befallen them, they loot language of its power to represent fact. If the words we use to describe experience can be denuded of sense, can experience itself be erased? 
 The superbly realized production of ''God's Ear'' that opened Thursday night at the Vineyard Theater is the same one that was presented to much acclaim last year by the adventurous Off Off Broadway theater company New Georges. The production team reassembled here represents an A list of current downtown theater mavens. Anne Kauffman directs, with an admirable feel for the play's tonal oddities; Michael Friedman, known for his work with the Civilians theater troupe, composed the eerie a capella songs (with Ms. Schwartz collaborating on the lyrics); the quirky Ms. Kirk is virtually the first lady of Off Off Broadway.
 All contribute fine work here, as do the other members of the cast, which includes Monique Vukovic as Mel and Ted's weirdly ageless young daughter, Lanie; Judith Greentree as the world-weary Tooth Fairy in tattered wings and synthetic blue wig; the bulging-bicepped Matthew Montelongo as both a transvestite flight attendant and that talking G.I. Joe; and Rebecca Wisocky (the only newcomer to the play) as a lovelorn but loquacious woman Ted meets in an airport lounge.
 Ms. Schwartz has surely been inspired by various canonical playwrights of the absurd (particularly Ionesco), by later innovators like Caryl Churchill and perhaps by downtown fixtures like Richard Maxwell too. (And let's not forget Lewis Carroll.) But her witty linguistic collages have their own rhythms and rules, reflecting the attitude of a generation that takes for granted the comic banality of everyday discourse and the disjunction between emotion and expression that is a hallmark of the post-ironic age -- the youth whose response to the confusions of the world is a cosmic ''whatever.''
 ''God's Ear'' is composed of virtuosic monologues and dialogues that reveal Ms. Schwartz's gift for constructing quirky lyrical riffs that stop making sense and then start up again from one line to the next. One long, dizzying rant from Mel is like a computer-generated list of related cliches and idioms, some of which have been vivisected and recombined in perverse ways. Dreaming of a reunion with Ted that will make all things right, Mel says:
 And you'll swoop down and save the day. And I'll bend over backwards and light up the room. And we'll thank God. And God will bless America. And with God as our witness, we'll never be starving again. And the fog will lift. And we'll see eye to eye. And the cows will come home. And we'll dance cheek to cheek.
 Virtually all the other characters in the play are given similar set pieces, with Mr. Frazier and Ms. Wisocky's boozy flirtation in a cocktail bar being perhaps the highlight. This loopy verbal pas de deux is like a Nichols and May routine as reimagined by a doctoral student still under the spell of Foucault or Derrida. 
 The cleverness of the writing is undeniable, and certainly diverting. But after a while the law of diminishing returns sets in, as you notice that the characters are all playing variations of the same game. (Appropriately, the sleek set by Kris Stone resembles a giant blue chess board.) You may come to feel like you're watching hand after hand of poker, a pastime that grows less entertaining once you've caught on to the rules and don't have a hand yourself.
 By the end the audience has almost lost sight of the emotional stakes, as the tragedy at the dark heart of the play has retreated behind a gauzy scrim of giddy wordplay. Ms. Schwartz's meticulously wrought language has come to seem less a means to an end than an end in itself. 
 GOD'S EAR
 By Jenny Schwartz; directed by Anne Kauffman; songs by Michael Friedman, additional lyrics by Ms. Schwartz; sets by Kris Stone; costumes by Olivera Gajic; lighting by Tyler Micoleau; sound by Leah Gelpe; production stage manager, Megan Schwarz; production manager, Ben Morris; general manager, Reed Ridgley; associate artistic director, Sarah Stern. Presented by the Vineyard Theater, Douglas Aibel, artistic director; Jennifer Garvey-Blackwell, executive director; in association with New Georges. At the Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303. Through May 18. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. 
 WITH: Gibson Frazier (Ted), Judith Greentree (Tooth Fairy), Christina Kirk (Mel), Raymond McAnally (Guy), Matthew Montelongo (Flight Attendant/G.I. Joe), Monique Vukovic (Lanie) and Rebecca Wisocky (Lenora). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Gibson Frazier, Christina Kirk and Judith Greentree in ''God's Ear,'' by Jenny Schwartz.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

TITLE: God's Ear (Play)>; God's Ear (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



470 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 668 words

PERSON: Joseph Solman 

HEADLINE: Joseph Solman, Painter, Is Dead at 99

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
Joseph Solman, a painter who, with Mark Rothko and other modernists, helped shape American art as early as the 1930s and, into a new century, continued to paint in his studio above the Second Avenue Deli in New York, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
 Having visited a gallery and, along with a friend, washed down a light dinner with Scotch in Midtown, Mr. Solman died in his sleep, his son, Paul, said. 
 In 1935, when he had been exhibiting for a few years, Mr. Solman formed a progressive group called the Ten -- a somewhat eccentric moniker, considering there were only nine of them. 
 He succeeded Stuart Davis as editor in chief of Art Front magazine at around the same time. Mr. Solman had circulated a petition among the magazine's several hundred members objecting to a cartoon it had published showing Don Quixote tilting at an abstraction. Inspired by his protest, they promptly named him editor.
 But Mr. Solman eventually came to view abstraction as the new hegemony, and founded a group called Reality with Edward Hopper and Jack Levine in the 1950s.
 The luminosity in his art might have been an inspiration for Rothko. Mr. Solman's own heroes included Paul Klee, Giorgio Morandi and Honore Daumier. His portraits were elegant, moody and lean, like those of Modigliani or Milton Avery. He once said in an interview that Cezanne was most important to him ''because he taught humility through his persistent attempt to climb the mountain of realism.'' 
 Joseph Solman was born in 1909 in Vitebsk, then part of Russia and now in Belarus. His family fled the Cossacks and landed in Queens, where his father became a tailor. 
 Mr. Solman attended the Art Students League and the National Academy of Design, but he always said he had learned more by sketching on buses and subways. He was an artist for the Works Progress Administration in the 1930s and early '40s, collaborating with Jackson Pollock and befriending Willem de Kooning. 
 After the war he made ends meet as a clerk at the Aqueduct and Belmont racetracks, where Jackie Robinson and other Brooklyn Dodgers placed $6 bets at his window. Look magazine called him a ''parimutuel Picasso.'' 
 His paint began to drip a little, his palette lightened, and he became a virtuosic and vivid colorist as his subjects got groovier in the 1960s, when he was an East Village artist during the heyday of flower power. He took up monotypes and then Sumi wash drawings in the 1980s, but later returned to street scenes. 
 Mr. Solman showed widely over the decades and was avidly collected by Duncan Phillips, among other leading American art figures. Despite having slipped out of the spotlight and parted ways with the mainstream of American modernism, he enjoyed something of a critical renaissance in his last years. (The Times of London listed a 2003 Solman show in Bath, England, as one of the year's five best.) 
 But he remained a pugnacious polemicist, if a softy at heart, who suspected weaker artists of knuckling under to fashion. 
 His spare, tottering skyscrapers and urban interiors bordered on abstraction. ''What intrigues me,'' he said, ''is the space and color of the sky between buildings, which I see when I ride the bus around twilight.''
 Mr. Solman's wife of 66 years, Ruth Romanofsky, died in 1999. He is survived by a daughter, Ronni, a schoolteacher in Los Angeles; his son, the economics correspondent for ''The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer'' on PBS, who lives in Boston; and a number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 
 One of the last painters from a bygone generation, Mr. Solman reflected on his trajectory in an interview several years ago in his studio, unfinished portraits and oil sketches of the city scattered everywhere, with a view uptown through the tall windows behind him and the smell of corned beef wafting from the deli below. 
 ''Over all these years, I've never felt the need to go entirely abstract,'' he said. ''There are just too many things in the world that I want to paint.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Solman at work in his studio in New York in 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PETITIONS (69%)

COMPANY: PT SUPER MITORY UTAMA TBK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); BELARUS (68%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



471 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Still Waiting in Zimbabwe

 BODY:
Voters in Zimbabwe chose their next president almost three weeks ago, but government authorities still refuse to say who won. That says a lot because if President Robert Mugabe had been re-elected, the results would have been instantly proclaimed. 
 Opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, claims that he won by a large enough margin to avoid a runoff. There is no way to know. There is little doubt that Mr. Mugabe's thugs are using the delay to try to coerce election officials into falsifying enough votes to at least force a runoff and perhaps manufacture a belated parliamentary majority for the ruling party. His goons have been hard at work trying to intimidate Tsvangirai voters into switching allegiance in case there is a second round. 
 Mr. Mugabe has used these destructive methods to cling to power for nearly 30 years. His violent land redistribution destroyed commercial agriculture. Foreign investment in mining has been frightened away. Inflation is more than 100,000 percent, the world's highest; life expectancy is below 40 today, among the world's lowest. 
 Mr. Mugabe was rightly seen as a hero when he led his country to majority rule in 1980. Zimbabwe's prospects were bright, with ample mineral resources, thriving agriculture, high literacy and international good will. He has squandered virtually all of these assets. He refuses to acknowledge responsibility for his country's near destruction, blaming white people, colonialism and the Western countries that dare to criticize him.
 That is why -- after years of looking the other way -- Zimbabwe's African neighbors need to step in now. Zimbabwe's implosion threatens their own achievements and stability. That is especially true for South Africa, the region's strongest economy and most vigorous democracy. After a string of embarrassing declarations by President Thabo Mbeki that seemed to deny or minimize the crisis, South Africa's government has finally called for rapid release of the election results. Mr. Mbeki and other African leaders need to do more.
 They need to make clear to Mr. Mugabe's cronies and army generals that any further effort to manipulate the vote or rig a second round will be punished -- with restrictions on their bank accounts and denial of visas. They need to call on Europe and the United States to take similar measures. And once this extended nightmare is finally over, Western countries must be generous in helping Zimbabwe's people recover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); LITERACY RATES (67%); ARMIES (51%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (51%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (73%); THABO MBEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



472 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Fans Will Go to Camden Yards, but They Won't Be Rooting for the Home Team

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
When the Yankees open a three-game series against the Orioles at Camden Yards on Friday, the grandstands of Oriole Park could be close to full and the mood might feel almost like the good old days at one of baseball's most charming venues.
 But the scene will mask a stark recession of fan support for the Orioles. Going into Thursday night's game against the Chicago White Sox, the Orioles' average attendance of 18,349 ranked 28th among 30 major league teams, and last among the 14 American League teams. 
 Many fans this weekend, perhaps a majority, will come from out of town to cheer for the visiting team, which is ''kind of weird,'' Orioles third baseman Melvin Mora said.
 ''But what can we say?'' said Mora, who has played here since July 2000. ''This is a free country. Everybody can cheer whatever they want. People come from New York to spend a weekend. You don't fight with the fans.''
 After opening in 1992, the brick and steel Oriole Park at Camden Yards, with its retro feel, ranked among baseball's top four in attendance for nine years. The Orioles finished above .500 for five of the first six seasons, winning the A.L. East in 1997, when they drew a franchise record of 3,711,132 customers.
 But since then, the Orioles have finished below .500 every season, and their average attendance plunged to 23rd last season, from sixth in 2001. Roughly a third of last season's 2,164,822 fans came to the 18 games when the opponent was the Yankees or the Red Sox.
 One of those customers was the Rev. John Scotland of Brigantine, N.J., who brought a group of eight to Wednesday's game against Chicago. Scotland wore a Red Sox jacket and a Red Sox cap. He said he planned to return when the Red Sox visit in May.
 Scotland said Oriole Park was the best among the dozen ballparks he has visited. But as he walked around the park Wednesday, he saw few fans in line ahead of him or in the seats around him. 
 ''This is dismal, I've never seen it like this,'' Scotland, a Presbyterian minister, said in reference to Wednesday's crowd of 12,080. ''This is really sad.'' 
 Charting attendance totals is the equivalent of taking the fluctuating temperature or blood pressure of a sports franchise. Its long-term financial health is better judged by market valuation.
 According to Forbes Magazine, which estimates those figures annually, the Orioles are now worth $398 million, up one percent from last year, based on revenue of $166 million. The franchise is No. 18 in value, according to the Forbes rankings.
 Bob DuPuy, president and chief operating officer of Major League Baseball, said in a telephone interview, ''There is nothing fundamentally wrong with the franchise,'' which moved to Baltimore in 1954 from St. Louis, where it was known as the Browns.
 ''Obviously, the novelty of the new ballpark has worn off and the team has underachieved on the field,'' DuPuy said. 
 Asked whether the Orioles have been hurt by the Nationals, who moved in 40 miles away in Washington for the 2005 season, DuPuy said, ''I do not think that the Washington team has had more than a modest or slight impact.'' 
 Washington, which opened Nationals Park this season, has an average attendance of 28,214.
 Much of the anger of Orioles fans has been directed toward Peter G. Angelos, the principal owner, who declined to be interviewed for this article. 
 The fans' chief complaint has been his meddling in the front office. On Sept. 14, 2006, about 1,000 fans wearing ''Free the Birds'' T-shirts staged a midgame walkout. One of the protesters was Randy Lotz, a local musician who wrote the song ''Let Go of Them O's, Mr. Angelos.'' 
 ''I don't care how nice a ballpark you have,'' Lotz said. ''His management style has proven detrimental.''
 Lotz, 52, said he was inspired to write his song when he took his daughter to a game against Boston for her 16th birthday, and they were surrounded by Red Sox fans.
 ''I used to go to a dozen or 20 games a year,'' he said, adding that he will not go now unless someone gives him a free ticket. Lotz said the lack of customers at Camden Yards had hurt the bars and restaurants of the Inner Harbor, where he performs.
 John Moag, chief executive officer of Moag & Company, a sports investment bank based in Baltimore, said, ''There's an awful lot of disgust out there.'' 
 ''It becomes a dangerous situation when your fan base starts to erode,'' he added.
 But Moag praised the hiring of Andy MacPhail as team president last summer. 
 ''He's got the right DNA,'' Moag said. 
 MacPhail, who most recently ran the Chicago Cubs, won two World Series as the general manager of the Minnesota Twins, and his father and grandfather were baseball executives who are in the Hall of Fame.
 ''Now, you need to let Andy MacPhail do his job,'' Moag said. 
 Under MacPhail, popular players like Miguel Tejada and Erik Bedard have been traded for prospects; Brian Roberts and Kevin Millar may be moved as the Orioles rebuild.
 MacPhail said that, under current circumstances, he was gratified that attendance has been even this good. Better days are ahead, he said. 
 ''We're clearly on a course designed to make us better in the future,'' he said.
 But until then, among the promotions to lure fans back are an all-you-can-eat section of 1,300 seats in left field and signs over the city streets with the motto ''This is Birdland.'' 
 Jamie Walker, the veteran relief pitcher, saw a rebound on the field and in the seats when he was with the Detroit Tigers from 2002 through 2006.
 ''They love baseball here,'' Walker said of Baltimore. ''It's got some history. When you've had 10 losing seasons, it wears on the fans, wears on the organization, wears on everybody. The best way to market is to win ballgames. Everybody loves a winner.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Seats Available: Home attendance for the Baltimore Orioles since the opening of Oriole Park at Camden Yards in 1992. Chart details bar graph for ATTENDANCE PER GAME. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



473 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Raising The Ante

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
IN the beginning was the trailer. It was white with eggshell-blue trim, donated in 1976 by the State of Connecticut, along with some castoff office furniture, to the Pequot Indians, an impoverished, nearly defunct tribe. The trailer served as headquarters for the tribe's first attempts at economic development projects, which included raising swine and growing hydroponic lettuce.
 The trailer has disappeared, but you can see a photo of it at the Pequots' $200 million heritage museum, the one they built with revenue from Foxwoods, in Mashantucket -- the largest casino in the Western Hemisphere. The Pequots are still building. Now, besides the casino, with its 1,400 hotel rooms and Romanesque-style pools looking out onto densely wooded hills, its championship golf courses and oversize Hard Rock Cafe and, of course, eight acres of slot machines and betting tables, the Pequots are about to open a 30-story glass-faced monument to Mammon, the MGM Grand at Foxwoods, which includes a 4,000-seat theater; smarter guest rooms; shops by Chopard, Bulgari and Apple; and a roster of celebrity restaurants. 
 Nine miles up the road from Foxwoods, in Uncasville, there are trailers, too. But they are construction trailers, out of which the neighboring Mohegan tribe is working on a billion-dollar expansion to the second-largest casino in the hemisphere, Mohegan Sun. Not content with a 55-foot indoor waterfall, a martini bar beneath one of the world's largest planetarium domes, and a 10,000-seat concert arena that doubles as home court for the Mohegans' very own women's professional basketball team, the tribe is adding another few hundred yards of shop-lined corridors, a wavy-walled casino dedicated to the wind and a sky-hugging hotel whose lobby is modestly entitled the Source of Life.
 Connecticut's Indians are not begging for old desks any more. In 15 years, Foxwoods, which opened in 1993, and Mohegan Sun, which arrived three years later, have exploded into a two-player subindustry that rakes in $2.5 billion a year from gambling alone, according to Alan P. Meister, an economist with the Analysis Group, a firm that tracks Indian casinos. (The casinos on the Las Vegas strip take in $6.4 billion a year altogether -- but there are 37 of them.) 
 Millions of visitors travel to this corner of southeastern Connecticut each year to experience the Indian casino spectacle. If you plan to join them, come prepared for sensory overload. A recent two-day whirlwind tour turned up no shortage of excess -- even on a Monday and Tuesday, when the big attraction on the lobby board at Mohegan Sun read: ''Met Life Disability Managers Meeting.'' 
 This is Indian casino life in Connecticut in 2008. A cocktail at the base of the deafening waterfall. A stroll down a mall-like corridor, past a surprising range of high-end and schlocky shops, past posters advertising coming big-name concerts (Billy Joel, Def Leppard, Gloria Estefan), to the world's largest bingo parlor, where the prizes include cars and the occasional $1 million jackpot, or to a vast casino floor echoing with an ever-cresting symphony of bells and swooshes and winners' shouts of ''whoa!''
 A bowl of Vietnamese pho or duck chow fun from the all-night noodle shop just beyond the pai gow-poker tables. A trip up to the spa floor for a caviar facial (Foxwoods) or a two-hour purification ritual featuring a Cellutox Aroma Spa Ocean Float (Mohegan Sun). A dip in a glassed-in pool with a backdrop of palm trees and a bar (Mohegan Sun) or a terrace commanding gorgeous views (Foxwoods). Eager conventioneers and grim-faced slot addicts. Filet mignon and Fuddruckers and endless opportunities to earn Wampum Rewards points.
 BOTH casinos play on the Indian theme, offering layers of easy irony -- hyperartificial evocations of nature, spiritual frosting on a wedding cake of venality, people long laid low by the white man's material greed and vices now growing obscenely rich off same -- and quasi-anthropological fun. At Mohegan Sun, where the Indian motifs are designed by the company of the theming visionary David Rockwell, the overwhelmed pedestrian is ushered toward the Casino of the Earth by a 20-foot-high mural of a warrior brave materializing from the gnarled root of a tree. Beside the brave, a smiling tortoise sprouts a swaying woman, branches and wild hair not quite obscuring her nipples. 
 A smartly dressed guard with a long, stringy beard explained the symbolism. ''That's Grandfather Turtle,'' he said. ''The world rests on a turtle's back. That's where all life comes from.''
 The casino floor itself is guarded by a life-size animatronic wolf perched atop a faux rock pile. He flares his ears and swivels his powerful neck at the comings and goings of the throng.
 At 22 minutes after every hour, the wolf howls.
 Four planetarium domes crown the Casino of the Sky, one of which shelters Leffingwells, the martini bar. The starry ceiling, a bartender named Jason said, has fooled its share of patrons over the years. ''I've had two people who thought it was real for a few minutes,'' he said. ''One of them was actually sober.''
 After the dramatically lighted delirium of Mohegan Sun, Foxwoods seems a much more straightforward affair. The Indian motifs, mostly versions of a statue of a rainmaking brave pointing an arrow at the sky, are not too imaginative. The lobby and the guest rooms are plainer (and in the case of the rooms, considerably less expensive). And the glaringly non-Indian theme of the malls and halls -- quainte New Englande Maine Streete interrupted by periodic casinos -- feels flat and dated.
 But Foxwoods has the museum: the Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center, a gleaming, spacious repository of tribal history that brings to life centuries of survival in the rocky hills and swamps of the region. Its centerpiece is a half-acre walk-through village with a population of 51 life-size Indian mannequins engaged in everyday activities. You are in the action, poking your head into a healing ceremony, studying methods for eviscerating a caribou or flaying and drying fish, sitting inside a full-scale longhouse for a tribal meeting.
 And what the Pequots' casino itself lacks in charm and semiotic complexity, it makes up in sheer bulk, especially on the gambling floors, with their 344,000 square feet of opportunities to lose your hard-earned money. The four casinos at Foxwoods boast 7,000 slot machines, compared with Mohegan Sun's 6,200 (though Mohegan Sun passed Foxwoods in slot revenue in 2004 and has not looked back). The WPT World Poker room will host this year's World Poker Tour finals. In the Race Book, bettors can, if they choose, simultaneously wager on harness, thoroughbred and greyhound action blasting from a long high wall of flat-screen TVs. Two casinos are reserved for high rollers. The bingo hall can seat 3,200.
 This does not even count the opportunities to play keno, which are ubiquitous and continual. In your room, you can tune in to the keno channel and watch a drawing every eight minutes.
 EXPONENTIAL as their expansion has been, the casinos have decided that to stay on top of their game they still need to build. Growth in gambling revenue has leveled off, particularly at Foxwoods, as competition multiplies in other states and public tastes change. Both have big plans. ''It's not really a race per se,'' said Mitchell Etess, president of Mohegan Sun. Though to the casual visitor, it looks like one. A wing opening this summer at Mohegan Sun will house the Casino of the Wind, heralding the return of poker tables, and a Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville club featuring Floribbean fare and live music. By 2010, the Mohegans plan to open the 43-story Earth Tower, containing a 700-room hotel that in turn encloses a ''hotel within a hotel'' run by House of Blues. The top floor will be a members-only House of Blues club. There will also be a 1,500-seat House of Blues open to all who pay admission, a second luxury spa and more stores and restaurants.
 Mr. Etess, in the circumspect language of casino publicity, promised that the expansion ''will really push us over the precipice as a destination.''
 At Foxwoods, the Pequots will cut the ribbon on May 17 on MGM Grand, their new $700 million glass tower with a theater and newly expensive rooms along with 115,000 square feet of meeting and convention space. Of MGM's two million square feet, only 50,000 will be devoted to gambling. ''We truly are eager to have a broader offering,'' said Gillian Murphy, the general manager of MGM Grand at Foxwoods.
 The original casino is changing, too, with work on new high-end shops and restaurants under way now behind a black mesh curtain and, later, the New England main street to be replaced in a $165 million face-lift. 
 No matter how grand things get, though, Foxwoods had better hang onto its traditions if it wants to keep customers like Dotty Cummings, an 84-year-old firefighter's widow from a Boston suburb who takes the bus down to play bingo about once a week.
 ''I've been playing here since it was a V.F.W. hall,'' Ms. Cummings said earlier this month as she sat down with her boards and markers and coffee cups. ''If they ever take bingo away, I'll protest.'' Ms. Cummings added that she would never be caught dead at Mohegan Sun. ''It's too dark,'' she said. ''And they don't have bingo anymore.'' 
 Of course, one person's dim is another's inviting. The night before at the Wolf Den, a cave-themed nightclub on the casino floor at Mohegan Sun, two sisters in their 50s from Springfield, Mass., Joanne O'Connor and AnnMarie Vivenzio, had been discussing the relative merits of the casinos with a new friend, Gert Lewis. Mohegan Sun was the unanimous choice.
 ''There's an atmosphere here,'' said Ms. O'Connor, the younger sister. ''Foxwoods is not as intimate,'' Ms. Lewis said.
 ''Intimate,'' Ms. O'Connor agreed. ''That's the word.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CASINO ROULETTE: Bold iconography at Mohegan Sun, top. Putting in the final touches at the new Foxwoods tower, above.(pg. F1)
TRADITION: Bingo has a long history at Foxwoods, where the hall can hold 3,200.
RIVAL PLANS: Foxwoods' MGM Grand tower, above, is to open next month. Not far away, Mohegan Sun, left, is also expanding.
 BEFORE THERE WAS FOXWOODS: Plans for the casino resort were incubated in a trailer, left, which once served as the Pequot tribal office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) MAP Map details area of Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods. (pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); OFFICE FURNITURE (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); THEME RESTAURANTS (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); GOLF (69%); BASKETBALL (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



474 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Construction and Hard Times

 BODY:
With the recent exhumation of a Red Sox jersey from the site of the new Yankee Stadium, another sports arena will move forward jinx-free. If only the rest of New York City's grand development plans could get back on track so easily. Work is slowing, stalling or stopped altogether on too many of the projects we hoped would transform some of the bleakest sections of the city. 
 The faltering economy is a big factor, but there is also a lack of leadership. The leader of the Empire State Development Corporation quit along with Eliot Spitzer, the disgraced former governor. 
 A committee of marquee name business leaders that was formed to find a replacement has just begun its search, but it needs to act quickly. There are far too many important projects in need of the support and direction of a top-flight developer and negotiator.
 Penn Station A grand plan to replace the grimy station with a glorious new Moynihan Station has unraveled since the owners of Madison Square Garden refused to move a block west. Instead, they plan to renovate the arena right where it is on top of Pennsylvania Station. Reviving an older plan for a Moynihan Station that doesn't require the Garden to move might work, but somebody needs the clout to bring it all together. 
 Manhattan's West Side The plan for a high-rise business district has stalled as money has tightened. The starting point is still the No. 7 subway, which the city promised to fund. The price tag is growing by the day and is raising fears that state or federal money -- also in short supply -- will be needed. The trick will be to make this subway work in time for the next building cycle.
 Calatrava's PATH station The majestic birdlike structure at ground zero is taking far longer than projected -- and the price keeps rising. The real issue is how to cut costs without damaging this architectural beauty.
 Atlantic Yards The Nets arena appears to be moving ahead, but the centerpiece Miss Brooklyn building designed by Frank Gehry is likely to be delayed. A strong state hand could ensure that the project -- with adequate lower-income housing -- survives hard times.
 Pier 40 A very promising proposal to turn the old pier on the Hudson River Park into a recreation and entertainment complex drew strong local opposition and has been shelved recently by park overseers. A new state development leader should help come up with a workable compromise.
 Javits Convention Center An overly expensive proposal to transform the old behemoth has been scaled back to a minor expansion and some major repair work. That shouldn't have to await a new development chief, but somebody needs to press the state to bring out the paint and ladders. 
 It is not all bad news -- the World Trade Center site is finally moving ahead. That still leaves New York City with plenty of other signature developments that need attention and savvy leadership now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); GOVERNORS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



475 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed Finish a Day After a Big Rally

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished an erratic session mixed on Thursday after an uneven batch of earnings reports made investors cautious about buying stocks. Disappointing economic readings added to the market's uneasiness a day after a big rally. 
 The market grew jittery after the Philadelphia Federal Reserve said an index of regional manufacturing activity fell to a negative 24.9, from a negative 17.4 in March. The survey found most manufacturing executives were ''cautiously optimistic'' about future activity, but a report of higher unemployment claims reinforced the market's recession worries.
 Merrill Lynch reported a first-quarter loss of $2.14 billion, wider than the average analyst estimate, after it wrote down the value of assets tied to mortgages and leveraged loans by several billion dollars. But the chief executive, John A. Thain, said business conditions in April appeared better than in the first quarter, and the stock finished up $1.82, or 4.1 percent, to $46.71.
 There were also disappointing results from Nokia, the world's biggest mobile phone company, and the drug maker Pfizer.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was little changed, edging up 1.22, or 0.01 percent, to 12,620.49, after fluctuating throughout the session.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 0.85, or 0.06 percent, to 1,365.56, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 8.28, or 0.35 percent, to 2,341.83.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 5.39, or 0.76 percent, to 708.00.
 On Wednesday, stocks shot higher in response to stronger-than-expected earnings from JPMorgan Chase, Coca-Cola and Intel. But the quarterly reports that investors parsed on Thursday were not as auspicious. 
 Nokia, the Finnish-based cellphone maker, said its profit rose by a weaker-than-expected 25 percent and its global market share was down slightly. Its shares fell $4.74, or 14 percent, to $28.95, in the United States.
 Pfizer declined 70 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $20.40 after reporting that its first-quarter profit fell 18 percent on competition from generics and falling sales of drugs including Lipitor, Norvasc and Zyrtec.
 Harley-Davidson fell 70 cents, or 2 percent, to $36.09, after the motorcycle maker said it would ship up to 27,000 fewer motorcycles this year.
 Alec Young, an equities strategist for Standard & Poor's, said the fact that Merrill was up, along with most other major financial stocks, was a positive sign because the market appeared to have priced in the economic downturn and the fact that first-quarter earnings would not be strong across the board.
 David Bianco, a UBS equities strategist, agreed. ''Considering the nervousness out there about the economy, after a surge, not giving back a chunk of it is pretty encouraging,'' he said. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32, to 98 4/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.73 percent, from 3.68 percent.
 Oil prices set another record high overnight, but crude fell 7 cents from Wednesday's close to settle at $114.86 a barrel Thursday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the contract's first closing decline in a week.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity for stock market in line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); MOTORCYCLES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); PFIZER INC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



476 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Plum, the Color, Is Having Its Star Turn

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
MADISON AVENUE is making like Little Jack Horner, pulling out plum after plum for the presumed delectation of consumers.
 Examples of how plum may become the new black for advertisers and media companies include a new Plum Card from American Express, coupon inserts in Sunday newspapers under the RedPlum name and plum-colored labels for products like Penta water.
 There is also Plum TV, a channel available in resort communities; PlumChoice Online, a PC services company; and even books by Janet Evanovich featuring a character called Stephanie Plum. The titles include ''Plum Lovin' '' and ''Plum Lucky'' and, coming in January, according to Dori Weintraub of St. Martin's Press, which publishes Ms. Evanovich, ''Plum Spooky.'' 
 Trend watchers suggest several reasons so many marketers seem to be going plum loco. One recurring thought is that the success of technology brands like Apple and BlackBerry is giving fruit a good name, hence the proliferation of plums as well as brands like Pinkberry and Red Mango, which are both frozen yogurts. 
 Plum and purple colors also ''evoke royalty, sophistication,'' said Tom Julian, president at the Tom Julian Group in New York, a brand consultancy.
 Those shades can appeal to ''the emotional side of one's passions and interests,'' he added, ''the individual desire for zest and to be distinct.''
 Mr. Julian traces the growing appeal of plum to fall 2005, when ''the 'luxe' factor emerged in the designer market'' and richer hues came into favor.
 Plum TV was introduced a year earlier, in Nantucket, Mass., by Chris Glowacki and Tom Scott, and has since been expanded to upscale communities including Aspen, Colo., and the Hamptons.
 ''There's a positive connotation to the name: a plum job, a plum moment; it's something that's sweet and natural,'' said Richard Kirshenbaum, the co-chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of MDC Partners. He agreed last week to become the host of ''Creative Lunch,'' a talk show that Plum TV is to introduce in the summer.
 Mr. Scott, who also helped found Nantucket Nectars, received one of the first Plum Cards when American Express introduced them last September. The card is part of the American Express Open line of products aimed at small businesses.
 ''The plum job, the plum assignment -- it's something you strive for,'' said Diego Scotti, vice president for global advertising at the American Express Company in New York. ''We wanted to make the card feel aspirational, special.''
 ''When we were looking at the color of the plastic'' during the planning stages, ''we wanted something classy and sophisticated,'' Mr. Scotti said, and the choice was a shade ''we called burgundy.''
 But the company did not want to call it burgundy when marketing it, he added, for fear of confusion with wine brands. So instead plum is joining the ranks of Amex colors that also include black, blue, gold, green and platinum.
 In December, three months after the Plum Card came out, Valassis Communications, which distributes cents-off coupons and other value offers for marketers, brought out RedPlum. The brand is in newspapers, online (redplum.com), in the mail, in stores and in circulars delivered to home and apartment doors.
 ''Consumers know our products, but didn't have any recognition of our business-to-business name'' of Valassis, said Suzie Brown, chief marketing officer at the company's Los Angeles office.
 ''We wanted to create an umbrella name with superior consumer awareness,'' she added, that would ''break away from the functional names in our space, which are all very literal: 'Coupons,' 'Savings' or 'Deal.' ''
 The word plum stemmed from discussions among Valassis executives, Ms. Brown said, who ''like to talk about 'sweeten the deal,' 'sweeten your life' or 'juicy deal.' ''
 ''In many societies, plums are given as rewards or as gifts,'' she added. ''I like to think about biting into a big, juicy plum.''
 The most recent arrival to the plum party is the Penta Water Company, which is reintroducing its Penta brand with plum-colored labels and packaging.
 ''Plum says calm; plum says clean; plum says health,'' said Bill Sickert, chief executive at Penta Water in Carlsbad, Calif.
 ''Other products in the water category are blue, clear, red,'' he added. ''This color came out as a consistent representation of vitality, a pure product.''
 That several companies are all biting into the same name at the same time does not seem to concern them.
 Ms. Brown said she was ''delighted'' to be introducing RedPlum as American Express brings out the Plum Card because ''American Express has a much bigger budget for building consumer awareness.''
 And Mr. Glowacki of Plum TV said his company was flattered by the Plum Card's arrival. ''I don't think there's any threat of confusion,'' he said. ''I hope it's as good for them as it is for us.''
 In fact, Mr. Scotti of American Express said, the introduction of the Plum Card was successful: an initial release of 10,000 cards was all gone, he said, ''and we're already in our second release.''
 Of course, not everyone agrees that plum is paramount. The Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation sent out e-mail messages on Thursday to shoppers that proclaimed, ''What's hot now: Think pink.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Plum is the hue of choice among several marketers, including American Express, which recently introduced a Plum Card for small businesses. Above, an ad for the Plum Card. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); BRANDING (77%); TRENDS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); RETAIL COUPONS (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (86%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (52%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (86%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%); MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (86%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



477 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Past Deals By N. Korea May Face Less Study

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration appears to be preparing to back away from a demand that North Korea fully disclose all of its past nuclear weapons activities, in an attempt to preserve a nuclear agreement requiring it to disclose and dismantle the bulk of its nuclear weapons program.
 As described by administration officials on Thursday, the step would relax a demand for North Korea to admit fully that it supplied Syria with nuclear technology. The United States would also agree to postpone its demand that North Korea provide an immediate and full accounting of its fledgling uranium program. 
 The new stance is intended to help complete a denuclearization deal that would focus instead on North Korea's more extensive plutonium program, which has been at the heart of its nuclear weapons development and was the source of raw material for the device it tested in October 2006.
 The State Department spokesman, Sean D. McCormack, said the emerging agreement would not represent a concession. He said that even if North Korea did not fully account for its uranium efforts, the deal would allow inspectors access to all of North Korea's nuclear facilities in order to verify that it had stopped its weapons programs. 
 ''There is nothing inevitable about this process, and we are reserving judgment about this declaration until we see it,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''Every aspect will be subject to verification, and if we detect that they have misled or attempted to mislead, there will be diplomatic consequences.''
 The new approach has been endorsed by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her chief North Korea negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, an assistant secretary of state, who have argued that getting the plutonium program shut down was better than getting nothing at all, an administration official said. But it is being opposed by conservatives within the administration, including aides to Vice President Dick Cheney, officials said. 
 ''A lot of people will say this falls short of the full confession,'' a senior administration official said of what the new approach would demand of North Korea. ''They want them to appear in Town Hall and acknowledge that they have sinned. But they weren't willing to go that far.''
 The administration had previously sought full disclosure of North Korea's role in the Syria program, which a senior administration official said was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in Syria last September. 
 Under the new approach, the United States and North Korea have settled on fudging the issue, administration officials said. North Korea will ''acknowledge'' that the United States is concerned about the nuclear proliferation to Syria but will not publicly admit to it. North Korea will also promise not to engage in any more nuclear proliferation, a senior administration official said. 
 In return, the United States would take North Korea off the list of state sponsors of terrorism and the list of countries noted in the Trading With the Enemy Act. 
 State Department officials, preparing for a storm of protest from conservatives who complain that such an agreement would be too soft on North Korea, hastened to say on Thursday that the United States would continue to keep a host of economic sanctions against North Korea, including prohibitions on most foreign aid and limitations on trade.
 The administration officials who described the new American approach agreed to speak only on condition of anonymity, because North Korea had not yet agreed to the deal. Asked on Thursday whether the United States was scaling back its demands, Ms. Rice responded only obliquely. 
 ''We're going to have to judge whether North Korea has carried out its obligations,'' Ms. Rice said during a news conference. ''But I will say this: we have a long way to go in terms of all the various statutory sanctions and multilateral and bilateral sanctions that would remain even if the United States were to take the steps that you outlined.''
 President Bush appears to be supporting Ms. Rice and Mr. Hill, to the dismay of those who say that the administration, after six years of acting tough on North Korea, is backing down. Defenders of the emerging agreement counter that it would be a mistake to continue a strategy that has yet to produce a lasting deal, and instead allowed North Korea to build up its plutonium stockpile and detonate a nuclear device in 2006.
 Part of the problem for Mr. Bush is that the proposed deal, which many foreign policy experts say may be the best the United States can hope for at this point, is being judged by standards set up by Mr. Bush himself. 
 The White House now finds itself charting a similar course to the one taken by the Clinton administration in striking a deal with North Korea in 1994. That agreement collapsed in 2002 after the Bush White House accused North Korea of secretly continuing work on a nuclear weapon.
 Under the new deal, North Korea has agreed to dismantle Yongbyon, as part of an agreement that, like the Clinton deal, envisions that North Korea would ultimately give up all of its nuclear material. 
 John R. Bolton, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations and the most outspoken critic of the accord now taking shape, wrote an op-ed column this week in The Wall Street Journal that compared Mr. Bush unfavorably with Ronald Reagan. ''His policy regarding North Korea's nuclear weapons program looks more like something out of Bill Clinton's or Jimmy Carter's playbook,'' Mr. Bolton wrote.
 The administration is sending a negotiating team next week to try to work with the North Koreans on the details of what exactly North Korea would have to disclose about its plutonium program -- and how, under such an agreement. 
 ''We can't play 'trust me' with plutonium,'' one senior administration official said. Nuclear experts at the State Department and other agencies are working on a way to make sure that North Korea discloses its entire plutonium program and capacity.
 In addition, American officials are pressing North Korea to take steps to alleviate concerns held by Japan, which wants questions resolved about North Korea's abductions of Japanese citizens. 
 The issue is scheduled to come up over the weekend when Mr. Bush meets with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. White House officials say they do not plan to take North Korea at its word.
 ''No one has let them off the hook,'' said Dennis Wilder, special assistant to the president and senior director for East Asian affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); DICK CHENEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



478 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Britain Said To Consider Shoring Up Debt Market

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER; Graham Bowley contributed reporting from New York and Carter Dougherty from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The Bank of England and the British government are considering actions that would mirror steps taken by the United States Federal Reserve to restore liquidity to the money markets by taking over mortgage-backed assets from banks.
 Details are still being decided for the plan, which would offer government-backed bonds in exchange for securities backed by British mortgages, said a person with direct knowledge of the discussions, who declined to be identified before the plan was made public. The plan could be announced as early as next week, the person said.
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, have come under increasing pressure to act, as banks' continued reluctance to lend adds to woes in the British housing and consumer markets. Banks are unwilling to lend even to each other because they do not trust the value of their mortgage-backed assets at a time of falling property prices in Britain. 
 ''This would definitely help,'' said Jane Coffey, head of global equities at Royal London Asset Management. ''It won't be the cure for all ills as they still face a lot of challenges with the housing market, and we'll see falling earnings in the banking sector for the next two years, but we need to see more action because just cutting base rates won't be enough.''
 The difference between the central bank's benchmark interest rate and the cost of borrowing pounds has increased for three months as lenders hold onto their money.
 Some economists said that the housing market was the biggest worry for the British economy at the moment. House prices dropped 2.5 percent in March from a month earlier, according to the largest British mortgage lender, HBOS, and there are signs that the decline is weighing on consumer spending.
 To ease pressure on lenders, which have also started to reduce credit limits for clients, the central bank has already injected about $:50 billion ($99 billion) of cash into the markets. In March, the United States Federal Reserve for the first time offered lenders the opportunity to exchange debt, including mortgage-backed securities, for Treasury securities.
 The European Central Bank has no intention of offering banks a similar exchange, the central bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said Thursday. The European bank has not lowered rates, continuing to focus on fighting inflation even though Europe's economy has also recently started to show signs of weakening,
 But the European bank has always had a policy of accepting some asset-backed securities as collateral, because it adopted such rules from the central banks that preceded it before the euro was created in 1999. The proportion of collateral of this type on deposit has risen since financial market turbulence last August, but Mr. Trichet has said that the bank is not worried that some of it might be declining in value.
 Help by the Bank of England to ease pressure on banks will be welcomed by the British Banking Association, which said Thursday in a statement that it was ''very supportive of the central bank's current efforts to increase liquidity in the markets.''
 But British taxpayers are already concerned about paying part of the cost of the nationalization of the mortgage lender Northern Rock in February. Mr. Brown, whose reputation for economic competence suffered after trouble at Northern Rock caused a run on the bank, wants to show that any plan to help money markets would protect taxpayers and not be an easy way for banks to get rid of worthless mortgage assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); EURO (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BONDS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%); ALISTAIR DARLING (54%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



479 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2180 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'DESIGNED FOR PLEASURE: THE WORLD OF EDO JAPAN IN PRINTS AND PAINTINGS, 1680-1860,' through May 4. Organized by the Japanese Art Society, this show anchors the ''floating world'' of ukiyo-e prints firmly in economic and social reality. It includes works by well-known artists, including Hokusai and Hiroshige, and emphasizes the entrepreneurial role of print publishers and the relationship between printmaking, painting and literature in the Edo period. Because the prints are sensitive to light, ''Designed for Pleasure'' will be shown in two installments. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org.
 (Karen Rosenberg) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: '$;MURAKAMI,' through July 13. Bring the kids and the shopping-centered tweens. This survey of Takashi Murakami, the artist frequently called the Japanese Andy Warhol, has it all: immense, toylike sculptures; an animated cartoon that rivals Disney; and a fully functioning Louis Vuitton boutique selling Murakami bags. But it also elucidates the trajectory of an artist who began by recycling Japanese popular culture and then gradually figured out how to go deeper, harnessing Japanese traditions of painting, craft and spirituality. The art-commerce, high-low conundrums are fun, but the steady improvement in the paintings is the real heart of the matter. Along with the animated cartoons, there is a moral component as well. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 
 (Roberta Smith) 
 THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'PARMIGIANINO'S ''ANTEA'': A BEAUTIFUL ARTIFICE,' through April 27. Exhibitions don't come any smaller than ''Parmigianino's 'Antea': A Beautiful Artifice.'' A painting, a wall text, a nugget of a scholarly catalog, and that's it. It's enough. Certain pictures, like certain performers, don't need troops of extras to make a large effect. Solo suits them. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. 
 (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY,' through May 4. Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out his many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored masterpieces. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COLOR CHART: REINVENTING COLOR, 1950 TO TODAY,' through May 12. Organized by Ann Temkin, a curator in the museum's department of painting and sculpture, color functions as a ready-made in ''Color Chart'' -- something to be bought or appropriated, rather than mixed on a palette. The show is a rejoinder to the notion of color as the province of formalists, and to the idea that Minimal and Conceptual art comes only in shades of black, white and gray. In the upper section of the lobby a floor created by the artist Jim Lambie surrounds concentric strips of brightly hued tape. In the galleries there are classics by Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Rauschenberg and Sherrie Levine. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'TOMMA ABTS,' through June 29. The small, hard-edged abstractions by this German-born painter, who is based in London and was the 2006 Turner Prize winner, are not showy, but they are intensely absorbing. Basic formal elements like stripes, arcs, circles, planes and polygons are carefully layered, juxtaposed and interwoven in all sorts of subtly eccentric ways. Ms. Abts's colors are muted but seductive, and she adds highlights and shadows, creating mysterious, three-dimensional illusions. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008,' through June 1. This year's light-touch show takes lowered expectations -- lessness, ephemerality and failure, to use the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin -- as its theme, and makes at least an appearance of trying to circumvent an object-obsessed market. With 81 artists, this is the smallest Biennial in a while, and feels that way, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum, and continues at the Park Avenue Armory (at 67th Street), with a program of installation and performance art. If the overall mix feels uncharismatic, there are good artists on hand, most with work commissioned by the museum for the occasion. In an anti-triumphalist show, uncertainty, political and existential, rules. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'RE-ORIENTATIONS: ISLAMIC ART AND THE WEST IN THE 18TH AND 19TH CENTURIES' There have been major exhibitions on the influence of Islamic culture on Europe. But relatively few have traced influence the other way, which is what this small, scholarly show, the product of a Hunter College art history seminar, does. Using little-studied objects from the Metropolitan Museum's Islamic collection, it looks at art produced in India, Iran and Iraq in the 18th and 19th centuries, when Western colonial influences were flowing in. Far from being an aesthetically dim era, it was one of fascinating, complex change. Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery, Hunter College, 68th Street at Lexington Avenue, (212) 772-4991, hunter.cuny.edu, through April 26. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 MARTHA WILSON: 'PHOTO/TEXT WORKS, 1971-74' In 1976 the conceptual artist and performer Martha Wilson opened her TriBeCa loft to the public as Franklin Furnace, a nonprofit documentary center, archive and exhibition space for artists' books and ephemera that housed some of the most intriguing and fleeting work in town. More than 30 years later, Ms. Wilson is having a show of her own 1970s work, which was in sync with early feminist concerns about distorted and self-distorting images of women. But it also explored what it meant to be self-created and constantly self-revised as an artist and as a person. It's her first solo ever, and it's a gem. A pioneer in preserving art turns out to be a pioneer in creating it. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6242, mitchellalgus.com through April 26. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Other
 ANNA CRAYCROFT: 'THE AGENCY OF THE ORPHAN' In her impressive solo debut Ms. Craycroft systematically explores why so many protagonists of 19th- and 20th-century fiction have been orphans. A wraparound installation displays 295 framed photographic portraits of orphan heroes from literature, movies and animated cartoons, and Victorian-style fountains feature heads of weeping children. Ms. Craycroft's provocative book, combining semiotic and Jungian analysis, explains what it all means. Tracy Williams Ltd., 313 West Fourth Street, West Village, (212) 229-2757, tracywilliamsltd.com, through next Friday. (Johnson)
 Last Chance
 NINA CHANEL ABNEY: 'DIRTY WASH' This promising young painter has race on her caustically inclined mind, and a developing style that could be said to negotiate a truce between Robert Colescott and Kara Walker; history painting and political caricature; and the nation's diverse shades of skin. Minstrelsy plays its part. The results include Condoleezza Rice in a bikini, Al Sharpton in a fireman's hat and Barack Obama crossing the Delaware. All are all put forth with a raucously beautiful palette and malevolent details lurking in every corner. Kravets/Wehby Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-2238, kravetswehbygallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 'COUP DE GRACE' A new addition to the Lower East Side art scene is the clean, well-lighted space of Simon Preston, formerly of the Project. This inaugural show centers on the merciful death blow that is intended to end suffering. Daniel Joseph Martinez's mechanized sculpture spews fake blood onto the wall and floor from a nozzle hidden in a stuffed rabbit. Mary Kelly imagines a postcard from the mother of James Chaney, the murdered civil rights worker. Michelle Lopez adds prosthetic limbs to a tree branch. Touhami Ennadre and General Idea round out the theme of anguished death and the violated body, and no one has any intention of putting us out of our misery. Simon Preston, 301 Broome Street, between Eldridge and Forsyth Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 431-1105, simonprestongallery.com; closes on Wednesday. (Smith)
 CARROLL DUNHAM, 'PAINTINGS ON WOOD, 1982-1987' Few careers in painting have been more consistently interesting to follow over the past 25 years than Carroll Dunham's. It all began back in the early 1980s when he discovered plywood. From 1982 to 1987, he painted on laminated pine and later on panels covered with more exotic veneers, creating abstract, funny and strange duets of grainy wood and polymorphous paint. This vibrant exhibition presents a selection of those seminal works. Skarstedt Gallery, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 LABORATORIO 060 This spare show, part documentary, part participatory, is the work of the Laboratorio 060, a Mexico City artists' collective that for the most part operates outside of the traditional gallery setting. It creates interventionist projects with street vendors as collaborators; it rethinks the notion of beauty by asking young women to pose in a street vending stall as the Venus de Milo; it brings art to new audiences by turning rush-hour traffic into a performance piece. Cue Art Foundation, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-3583, cueartfoundation.org; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI' Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008590-0310, morganlibrary.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)IAN PEDIGO: 'TITANIUM PRO' Located at the overpopulated intersection of collage and assemblage -- and using a combination of magazine images, found paper, tape and cast-off domestic building materials -- this work avoids many of the current cliches. Everything is used sparely and with a geometric sense of structure; details stand out and include drawing, applications of color and little touches that may or may not be accidental. All is revealed. Thought and physical precision foment a kind of resurrection. Klaus Von Nichtssagend Gallery, 438 Union Avenue, near Devoe Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 383-7309, klausgallery.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An art entry in the Listings pages on Friday for an exhibition of Gregory Crewdson's photographs, at the Luhring Augustine gallery in Chelsea, misstated the title of the series to which the photographs belong, which is also the title of a book published by Abrams in conjunction with the exhibition. It is ''Beneath the Roses,'' not ''Behind the Roses.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ANIMATION (75%); RETAILERS (72%); RELIGION (65%); PUBLISHING (55%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (68%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (68%); LVMH (BIT) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



480 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2154 words

HEADLINE: High-Wire Act For a Film Festival

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
The image of the French daredevil Philippe Petit, dancing across a high wire between the twin towers of the World Trade Center in James Marsh's exhilarating documentary ''Man on Wire,'' is as rich a metaphor for the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival as you could imagine.
 On Aug. 7, 1974, Mr. Petit, then 24, tiptoed onto a cable suspended 1,350 feet above the ground and crossed it eight times in 45 minutes before the police forced him down. Peter Scarlet, the Tribeca festival's artistic director, describes Mr. Petit's feat as epitomizing the festival's precarious ''balancing of art and commerce.'' 
 In this year's festival, which begins on Wednesday and runs through May 4 at theaters around New York, that balance has tilted more toward art, although there are still plenty of bells and whistles. It demonstrates that the festival is finally settling into its own identity and establishing itself as a major international showcase. 
 ''Man on Wire,'' much of which was filmed atop the World Trade Center, also relates profoundly to the festival's origins as a community redevelopment project sprung from the ashes of 9/11. (And as you watch Mr. Petit and his team making their secret preparations for the stunt, the eerie similarity to an elaborate terrorist plot is unmistakable.) Since then, one of the festival's original goals -- to help revitalize the devastated economy of Lower Manhattan -- has been largely accomplished. 
 A sign of the festival's confidence is its willingness to shrink. No longer does it project the panicky sense of an event grabbing too many things offered to it in a mad scramble to demonstrate its size and importance. This year it has 120 features, about 40 fewer than last year, selected from 2,300 submissions from 41 countries. Fewer movies mean more discriminating programming, and that is all to the good.
 Like many of the strongest selections this year, ''Man on Wire,'' which has four Tribeca screenings, the first on April 26, and a commercial opening in August, arrives in New York already decorated with honors from other festivals. In January it won the Jury Prize and Audience Award for world documentary at the Sundance Film Festival. 
 More than ever, Tribeca resembles a sprawling downtown answer to the New York Film Festival. While Tribeca's older uptown cousin scoops up the best films from Cannes for their New York premieres in the fall, Tribeca does the same for award-winning films from Berlin, Sundance, Toronto and other festivals. 
 As American audiences for non-English-language art films dwindle, and the marketing and distribution costs for such films increasingly prohibit their purchase by adventurous releasing companies, Tribeca has become an indispensable bulwark against the isolationist mentality of the moviegoing public. Without it, many worthy international films might never be seen in New York. For some of those films the Tribeca festival will be their only chance to be seen outside of specialized series organized by museums and film societies. 
 To illustrate how vital the festival has become, consider ''The Secret of the Grain,'' a brilliant French film that won four Cesars (the French Oscars), including best picture, earlier this year but languished without a distributor until recent weeks. It was belatedly picked up by IFC Films, which plans to show it at an unspecified time this year. That movie's experience is an ominous example of how a film can reap acclaim all over the world and still find it almost impossible to be seen in the United States.
 ''The Secret of the Grain,'' by the Tunisian-born French director Abdellatif Kechiche, depicts North African immigrants in Sete, a crumbling port town in Southern France. Its protagonist is a weary, divorced, impoverished 60-year-old shipyard worker whose fractured family comes together around his dream of opening a floating restaurant based on his former wife's culinary specialty, fish couscous. 
 The film, which explores generational differences and psychological baggage within this extended family of emigres, is an extraordinarily rich and human ensemble piece, filmed in a rough documentary style that draws you to the bosom of this boisterous clan to a degree that few movies ever do. Following ''Games of Love and Chance,'' Mr. Kechiche's second film, which also won four Cesars (including best film) in 2005, it establishes him as a major player in world cinema. 
 History weighs heavily in ''Katyn,'' an epic drama by the great Polish director Andrzej Wajda, whose seminal 1950s trilogy, ''A Generation,'' ''Kanal'' and ''Ashes and Diamonds,'' examined the disillusion of Poles caught in the crosscurrents of world events. In the same vein as its forerunners, ''Katyn'' remembers the 1940 massacre of 15,000 Polish prisoners of war by Soviet troops, an atrocity for which the Soviets tried to blame the Nazis. A huge hit in Poland and nominated this year for an Oscar for best foreign film, ''Katyn'' remains without American distribution. Both it and ''The Secret of the Grain'' are in the festival's Showcase section, for acclaimed films that have had trouble finding American distribution.
 A lighter view of history informs ''My Winnipeg,'' the Canadian filmmaker Guy Maddin's zany goodbye letter to his snowbound hometown in Manitoba. Mr. Maddin has called the movie, with its delectable mixture of quasi-Freudian autobiography, local mythology, free association and pointed editorializing, a docufantasia. Ann Savage, playing Mr. Maddin's indomitable mother, lends the film a comic frisson of 1940s noir melodrama. In the Spotlight category, for films that already have distribution, it is scheduled to open in New York on June 13.
 Because these three films have already reaped honors on the festival circuit, they are not involved in the Tribeca festival's competitions for best world narrative film and best world documentary. In the past the competing films in those areas have been a mixed bag, largely chosen from movies that have eluded other sharp-eyed festival programmers. That said, this year's films (there are 12 in each category) are, at the very least, respectable; many are much better.
 Among the entries I sampled in the world-narrative category are Antonello Grimaldi's ''Quiet Chaos,'' a touching, low-key drama of bereavement in which an Italian television executive played by Nanni Moretti (director of ''The Son's Room'' and co-writer of ''Quiet Chaos'') clings to his 10-year-old daughter after his wife dies in a freak accident.
 Mehreen Jabbar's poignant ''Ramchand Pakistani'' tells the fact-inspired story of a Pakistani father and his young son who are arrested and spend years in jail after inadvertently crossing the border into India. 
 The main characters in ''The Aquarium,'' the Egyptian filmmaker Yousry Nasrallah's hallucinatory exploration of sexual politics and repression in middle-class Cairo, include a late-night phone-in talk-show personality and an anesthesiologist whose paths eventually cross.
 In the past the documentary competition has been stronger than the narrative. Last year's winner, Alex Gibney's ''Taxi to the Dark Side,'' went on to take the Oscar for best documentary. That film portrayed government-approved torture and corruption from the perspective of the victim. This year its sequel of sorts, Errol Morris's ''Standard Operating Procedure,'' sees such abuses from a different perspective: Mr. Morris interviews the soldiers prosecuted for taking the notorious photos of the abuses in Abu Ghraib. ''Standard Operating Procedure'' is in a noncompeting category and opens in theaters next Friday. 
 John W. Walter's fascinating ''Theater of War,'' much of which was filmed during rehearsals of the Public Theater's production of Bertolt Brecht's ''Mother Courage and Her Children,'' observes Meryl Streep developing the title character, whom she analyzes with a piercing intelligence. Scenes of the rehearsal process are interwoven with a biography of Brecht, emphasizing his Marxian politics and his cynical conclusion that war is good for business. 
 On a happier note, Carlos Carcas's ''Old Man Bebo'' is a portrait of the soon-to-be-90 Cuban composer and arranger Bebo Valdes, one of the inventors of the mambo. And Gini Reticker's ''Pray the Devil Back to Hell'' tells how, after a decade of civil wars in Liberia, a group of determined women helped bring to power that country's first elected female head of state, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, amid a climate of peace and order. 
 A special event of interest to cinephiles is Rene Clair's silent late-1920s comic gem, ''Two Timid Souls,'' part of the festival's four-film Restored/Rediscovered section, to be shown with a live performance of a new score by the New York University Chamber Orchestra. 
 Some other buzz-worthy titles include the animator Bill Plympton's surreal comedy ''Idiots and Angels''; Jose Padilha's ultraviolent ''Elite Squad,'' an expose of Rambo-like behavior by the special police force in the Rio de Janeiro slums (it was a giant hit in Brazil); and Julian Schnabel's concert film, ''Lou Reed's 'Berlin,' '' filmed at St. Ann's Warehouse in Brooklyn.
 Lest you assume that the festival has turned into an intellectually heavy-duty event only for cinephiles, be assured that it still has a healthy show-business quota. For star power and Hollywood clout, the soon-to-be-released opening-night film, Michael McCullers's comedy ''Baby Mama'' (starring Tina Fey and Amy Poehler), is a marquee event. So are David Mamet's midfestival martial-arts melodrama, ''Redbelt,'' and the closing-night car-racing thrill ride, ''Speed Racer,'' by the Wachowski brothers (of the ''Matrix'' films).
 Tribeca Drive-In, an outdoor screening series, runs from Thursday through April 26. On an even lighter note, May 3 is a day of sheer fun, in which a family street fair with entertainment coincides with Tribeca/ESPN Sports Day: eight hours of hands-on sports. 
 But it all comes down to movies. Last year, Mr. Scarlet said, 34 movies that had their world premieres at Tribeca were acquired for distribution. That was roughly twice as many as the year before. Such success is a healthy indication that Tribeca, like every other significant film festival, has become a marketplace as well as a tourist destination. Soon enough it should be a New York institution.
 Film Alfresco, Talk and Hoops
 The Tribeca Film Festival begins on Wednesday and runs through May 4, with screenings of more than 120 feature films and 11 programs of shorts at various locations in Lower Manhattan and Union Square. Tickets are $15 for evening and weekend screenings, and $8 for weekday daytime and late-night screenings; ticket packages are available. Information: (866) 941-3378; tribecafilmfestival.org. 
 These are a few of the special events linked to the festival: 
 CONVERSATIONS IN CINEMA (Thursday through May 4) ''2001: A Space Odyssey,'' with Ann Druyan, April 27, 3 p.m., Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street, near Gold Street, Lower Manhattan. '' '90 Miles': The Documentary,'' with Emilio and Gloria Estefan, May 1, 6 p.m., at the TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan. ''Standard Operating Procedure'' screening and discussion with Errol Morris, Thursday, 6:30 p.m., and ''Celebrating 'Berlin,' '' with Lou Reed and Julian Schnabel, May 4, 7 p.m., Directors Guild Theater, 110 West 57th Street, Manhattan.
 BEHIND THE SCREENS (April 26) ''Lake City,'' screening and conversation with Sissy Spacek, 6:30 p.m., Directors Guild Theater, 110 West 57th Street, Manhattan.
 TRIBECA TALKS (April 29) ''Pangea Day, TED & Tribeca,'' a discussion on the creation of Pangea Day, a day celebrating the power of film to unite the world (TED stands for Technology, Entertainment Design), with Christiane Amanpour and Jehane Noujaim, 7 p.m., Directors Guild Theater, 110 West 57th Street, Manhattan.
 TRIBECA DRIVE-IN (Thursday through April 26) Free outdoor film screenings for all ages. Thursday, ''The Making of 'Thriller,' '' face-painting, a ''zombie disco'' and Michael Jackson look-alike contest. Next Friday, ''Meerkat Manor: The Story Begins,'' and April 26, ''Tribeca/ESPN Fans' Favorite Football Flick.'' Doors open at 6:30 p.m., screenings begin at 8 p.m.,North Cove at World Financial Center Plaza, 200 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. 
 TRIBECA/ESPN SPORTS DAY (May 3) Interactive games and demonstrations for all ages. Generation Jets Fest, a football theme park sponsored by the New York Jets; tennis courts set up by the United States Tennis Association; a three-point basketball shooting contest with the Knicks Groove Truck; and hockey slap shots with the New York Rangers Road Tour. Mascots from the Mets and Islanders will sign autographs. ESPN radio broadcasts live. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., North Moore Street at Greenwich Street, TriBeCa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Man on Wire'' is one of 120 features at the Tribeca Film Festival.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RICKETSON/MAGNOLIA PICTURES AND DISCOVERY FILMS)(pg. E1)
Hafsia Herzi in ''The Secret of the Grain,'' an award-winning French film that had trouble finding an American distributor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LOIC MALAVARD)
 Meryl Streep in John W. Walter's film ''Theater of War.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL DANIEL)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



481 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Iceland, a Tiny Dynamo, Loses Steam

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: REYKJAVIK, Iceland 

 BODY:
Life on this rugged, windswept island has always swung between famine and feast -- dependent on the fish in its icy waters and the luck of its fishermen.
 But little could have prepared Iceland for the reversal of fortune it has suffered in the last few months. The country's long economic boom has ended in a painful bust, with a collapsing currency, rising inflation, double-digit interest rates and predictions of its first recession since 1992.
 ''As a citizen, you have to wonder what's going to happen to this country,'' said Eggert Benedikt Gudmundsson, the head of Iceland's largest fishing company, HB Grandi. ''We always tend to go to extremes,'' he added, as the wind rattled the windows of his seafront office.
 To many Icelanders, their country is the victim of foreign speculators, circling like sharks smelling blood. To outside investors, Iceland is the victim of its own excesses. 
 The trouble began shortly after the New Year, when investors started questioning whether Iceland's banks were at risk of defaulting on huge foreign loans. As traders speculated against Iceland's currency, the krona, doubts about the banks mushroomed into a crisis of confidence in the state's ability to maintain the financial system. 
 Now the banks -- the symbol of Iceland's metamorphosis from a poor fishing society into the North Star of the global economy, holding assets nearly 10 times the nation's gross domestic product -- are fending off rumors that they may need a bailout. On Thursday, Standard & Poor's, saying the banks' problems could make the downturn longer and deeper, cut Iceland's credit rating. 
 Few here dispute that the country is in deep trouble, perhaps the starkest national casualty yet of the worldwide credit crisis. Last week, the central bank raised interest rates to a record 15.5 percent to curb inflation and shore up the currency. Since Jan. 1, the krona has lost 22 percent of its value against the euro. 
 For most of the last decade, this tiny country ran on a high-octane mix of foreign investment -- much of it related to Iceland's energy resources -- borrowed money and profligate consumption, turning its 307,000 people into a miniature model of the American economy. 
 With inflation projected to rise above 8 percent this month and a yawning current-account deficit, Iceland was ripe for a correction. The credit crisis was the trigger.
 What makes this setback harder for people to stomach is that while Iceland's banks borrowed heavily overseas in recent years, they bought virtually none of the American mortgage-backed investments that contaminated the books of American and European banks.
 The problems of Iceland's banks are due mainly to the paralysis in the global credit markets that followed the subprime crisis. Yet rather than being rewarded for their foresight, or simple good luck, the banks are being portrayed by analysts as the string that could unravel the country's economic miracle. 
 People here object to what they claim is a caricature of Iceland abroad as a feckless country that used its strong currency to borrow heavily and lured foreign capital because of its high interest rates, setting itself up as a kind of Viking hedge fund. 
 ''If you took what the ratings agencies say about Iceland at face value,'' declared Finnur Oddsson, the managing director of the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, ''you would look out these windows, and expect to see flames shooting out the top of every office building.''
 For now, Reykjavik still looks very much a boomtown, with construction cranes swooping above the skyline, private jets landing at the airport and Range Rovers purring on the cobbled streets. 
 Mr. Oddsson said the country had robust fishing companies that exported cod and haddock to Britain and Germany. Investors like Alcoa have built giant aluminum smelting plants, which take advantage of the country's bountiful supply of cheap, clean hydro energy.
 Like people in other countries that have been buffeted by global markets, many in Iceland say they believe their woes are being exploited by foreigners. Hedge funds, they say, are spreading malicious rumors about Iceland's banks in the hopes of profiting from a collapse. The same funds, they say, are shorting Iceland's currency and stock market, betting that their values will decline. 
 In an oft-repeated but unconfirmed story, a group of hedge fund managers gathered at a chic bar in Reykjavik for drinks one evening last January and hatched a plan to go after the banking system. 
 Such conspiracies are hard to prove. Iceland's Financial Supervisory Authority is investigating trading patterns to see if there was a concerted strategy to sow doubts about the banks. 
 Iceland has some allies abroad. Richard Portes, a well-regarded economist at the London Business School, published an upbeat report about the financial system, saying the banks were resilient. Others say Iceland's current-account deficit will ease as new projects, like the Alcoa plant, begin generating income.
 A few weeks ago, Mr. Portes said he got a phone call from the senior partner of a hedge fund, quizzing him about why he wasn't more negative. He declined to identify the person or the hedge fund.
 ''I asked him, 'are you shorting Iceland?' '' Mr. Portes said. The next day, he reported the conversation to Icelandic authorities, on the grounds that it might constitute market manipulation. 
 Mr. Portes does not dispute that Iceland's economy was overheated and due for a correction. A huge investment boom and the privatization of the banks eight years ago left the country with a gaping current-account deficit -- $2.7 billion, or 16 percent of its total economic output in 2007 (the deficit is mainly a measure of the gap between imports and exports of goods and services). 
 By comparison, the current-account deficit of the United States is 5.3 percent.
 Iceland's banks have grown out of all proportion to its little economy. The three largest banks -- Glitnir, Kaupthing, and Landsbanki -- have expanded into Scandinavia and Britain, bought European banks and even opened branches in China. 
 Bank jitters set off a milder economic tremor in 2006, after Fitch Ratings changed its outlook for Iceland's sovereign debt to negative from stable. The krona plummeted, but recovered after the banks took steps to reduce their risk. 
 This time the markets are in a less forgiving mood. On April 1, Fitch again placed Iceland's banks and sovereign debt on a negative credit outlook.
 ''Investors are worried because the banks have no real access to the markets'' because of the credit squeeze, said Paul Rawkins, a senior director and Iceland expert at Fitch. ''Their next stop will be the government, which would have to bail them out. But the government doesn't have the checkbook to pay for it.'' 
 Iceland's government has pledged to support the banks, though it has refused to say how. The central bank has reserves of only $2.5 billion, a situation Mr. Rawkins likens to South Korea in the months before the Asian financial crisis.
 For bankers here, such talk is an affront.
 ''Iceland has never defaulted,'' said Bjorn R. Gudmundsson, the head of research at Landsbanki, noting that his bank shunned subprime investments because it deemed them too risky. ''It is an absurd discussion because it is almost unthinkable to us that we would default.''
 Government officials, however, have entertained that possibility, with talk of borrowing funds to double the central bank's reserves. Officials say they are putting their faith in the markets, which they say will regain their footing before the banks reach a danger zone.
 ''Everything seems to be on track for a gradual resolution,'' said Thorsteinn Thorgeirsson, a director general in the finance ministry. ''A lot of other countries are suffering too.''
 Iceland may suffer more than most. The government projected that the economy would shrink 0.7 percent in 2009, after growing 3.8 percent last year. The central bank projects a 2.5 percent contraction in 2009 and 1.5 percent in 2010.
 The gloom is starting to fall on stores, where the falling krona makes imported goods more expensive. A carton of Ben & Jerry's ice cream already costs $10.
 At the local Porsche dealer, no customers were checking out the Cayenne sport utility vehicles. Jon E. Eyjolfsson, the managing director, figures his sales will drop as much as 40 percent this year. ''People were buying these cars because the krona was so strong,'' he said.
 His only comfort, he said gamely, is that he also owns the Chevrolet dealership for Iceland. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Reykjavik, there are jitters about the nation's banks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARNALDUR HALLDORSSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C1)
Reykjavik still looks very much a boomtown. But Iceland is facing its first recession since 1992.
 Jon Eyjolfsson, the managing director of a Porsche dealership, said sales could drop 40 percent.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARNALDUR HALLDORSSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); RECESSION (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); EURO (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (92%) ICELAND (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



482 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Joblessness Rose in March But City Beat National Rate

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The unemployment rates in New York City and the state rose in March, but remained below the national rate, according to figures released Thursday by the State Labor Department.
 The city's jobless rate rose to 4.5 percent in March from 4.1 percent in February and the state's increased to 4.8 percent from 4.4 percent, after adjustments for seasonal fluctuations. The national rate rose to 5.1 percent last month.
 In the city, the number of residents with jobs fell last month by 21,700 to 3.66 million, the adjusted figures show. That total was the lowest in seven months, the data show, and may indicate the reversal of a steady climb in employment that began nearly five years ago,. 
 But at the same time, the number of jobs in the city and state increased slightly.
 The report came as economists and city and state officials were watching closely for signs of whether huge losses suffered by Wall Street firms were having a wider effect. On Thursday, Merrill Lynch reported a first-quarter loss of almost $2 billion and said that it would eliminate 2,900 more jobs this year, on top of the 1,100 already cut.
 ''The job declines in March, while expected, were considerably minor considering the dire announcements from Wall Street firms and other prognosticators,'' said Barbara Byrne Denham, the chief economist for Eastern Consolidated, a commercial real estate broker in Manhattan.
 Already, the jobs data indicated that the weakness had crept into other sectors, including manufacturing and professional services like accounting, said James Brown, an analyst for the Labor Department.
 ''It's more than just Wall Street,'' Mr. Brown said. ''If there is a national recession, which I think most people have stopped arguing about, it's going to have an adverse effect outside of the financial industries. History suggests that with a financial-sector downturn and weakness in the national economy, we will end up losing jobs.''
 Much of the cutting on Wall Street has yet to show up in the numbers compiled by the state, since many of the thousands being laid off are still on payrolls because they are collecting weekly severance checks, Mr. Brown said. 
 Consequently, the total number of jobs in the city's financial-services sector is still higher than it was a year ago. Among the financial businesses, only those that buy and sell securities and commodities showed a loss of jobs in the 12 months through March, the data show.
 The state measures the job market in more than one way. It tallies employment of city and state residents, some of whom work elsewhere. It also counts the jobs in the state and city, many of which are filled by people who live in other places.
 Over all, there were still more jobs last month than a year ago, according to the Labor Department. The number of private-sector jobs in the city, at 3.757 million last month, was about 40,000 higher than in March 2007. Statewide, the number of jobs in the private sector was up about 55,000, or 0.8 percent, to 7.17 million during the year.
 Manufacturing jobs across the state fell by about 16,000 since March 2007. One of the few other sectors that shrank during the year was professional and business services, which lost about 2,000 jobs. Mr. Brown said that the decline in business services was particularly troubling because that sector usually grows during the first quarter of the year.
 ''While attention is focused on Wall Street, the recent weakness in professional and business services and manufacturing, both of which are dependent more on the national economy than the local economy, suggests the looming recession is already beginning to adversely affect New York City,'' Mr. Brown said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); STATISTICS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); SEVERANCE PAY (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (90%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



483 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 REPORT SAYS U.S. LACKS PLAN
 To Combat Terrorism in Pakistan
 The Bush administration has failed to develop a governmentwide plan to combat terrorism in Pakistan's unruly tribal areas, even though top American officials concede that Al Qaeda has regenerated its ability to attack the United States and has established safe havens in that border region, government auditors said. PAGE A9 
 30 DIE IN BLAST IN DIYALA PROVINCE
 A dust storm that covered much of Iraq helped a suicide bomber kill 30 people in Diyala Province and provided cover in Baghdad for renewed rocket and mortar attacks into the fortified Green Zone. The bombing was the second suicide attack in three days to claim dozens of lives in the northern province. PAGE A12 
 BOMBER KILLS 23 IN AFGHANISTAN
 A suicide bomber blew himself up outside a mosque in southwestern Afghanistan, killing 23 people, including two senior police officials and several children, officials said. An estimated 31 people were wounded in the explosion, which occurred just before evening prayers in Nimruz Province, a remote desert area where there has been an increase in insurgent activity. PAGE A12 
 CALL FOR RELEASE OF ZIMBABWE VOTE
 The war of words over Zimbabwe's disputed election escalated, with the government accusing the opposition of treason, South Africa toughening its position and calling for the release of election results, and the Zimbabwean opposition insisting that South Africa should bow out as the mediator of the political standoff. PAGE A6 
 ISRAEL DEBATES LEAVENED BREAD
 Israel's public debate shifted this week from Hamas to hametz, the bread and other leavened products that many Jews do not eat during Passover. The focus is a ruling by a Jerusalem judge overturning the convictions of four shops for having sold pizzas and rolls during the holiday last year despite a law many thought prohibited doing so. The discussion speaks to anxiety over the Jewish nature of the state. PAGE A6 
 Gloomy Assessment of Mideast Talks A10 
 Bush Meets With Gordon Brown A8 
 Tibetan Reporter Detained in China A10 
 NATIONAL
 A NEIGHBORHOOD GROCERY
 Puts Neighbors to the Test
 For some people after Hurricane Katrina, the Mardi Gras Zone was a lifesaver. A carnival trinket warehouse near the French Quarter in its beginning, it evolved into the kind of place people could count on for their staples after other places had closed or left. But now its owner wants to sell liquor, too, and some neighbors are drawing the line. PAGE A14
 DECIDING THE FATE OF CHILDREN
 About 100 lawyers gathered in the main courtroom at Tom Green County Courthouse, and another 100 or so were dispatched to the San Angelo city auditorium three blocks away, connected to the main courtroom through a videoconferencing system. The center of all the attention: a mass hearing to determine the fate of the 416 children seized by the State of Texas in the raid on a religious polygamy group. It quickly became chaos. PAGE A14
 DEBATING THE ROLE OF MODERATORS
 The two moderators of Wednesday night's presidential debate on ABC became the subject of a fierce and somewhat unexpected debate among bloggers, viewers and critics . If there was a common theme, it was that the two had front-loaded the debate with questions irrelevant to viewers when measured against the faltering economy or Iraq war. PAGE A16
 GAINS FOR STUDENT LOAN BILL
 The House overwhelmingly approved a bill to increase the amounts that students can borrow through federal programs and grant wider authority for the Education Department to make financing available should it become more difficult for students and parents to get loans because of problems in the credit and mortgage markets. A similar bill is in the Senate. PAGE A22
 NEW YORK REPORT
 AWAITING A VERDICT, OFFICERS
 Can Look to Past Cases
 With a verdict expected from the judge next week, the New York City police officers charged in the shooting death of an unarmed man in Queens, along with their lawyers and others concerned, are left to sift through the outcome of similar cases in the past for hints of the future. PAGE B1
 GANG VIOLENCE IN A QUIET TOWN
 A boy ripped a bandanna off the neck of a girl when they crossed paths in a high school hallway in Nyack, N.Y. Gang colors were involved. And what in a less volatile situation might have been a simple teenage prank escalated into a fight downtown involving 40 members of rival gangs carrying knives and baseball bats, a few claw hammers and at least one ax. PAGE B3
 THE NEW ROADS TO PERDITION
 The Vatican has issued a new, expanded lineup of what are commonly referred to as the seven deadly sins. And, while not suggesting that the church had New York in mind, Clyde Haberman writes in the NYC column that ''a disheartening number of the new sins all but define this city.'' PAGE B1
 BUILDING IN CRANE CASE IS FAULTED
 The high-rise building under construction where a crane collapse last month killed seven people did not conform with zoning regulations and was approved in error, the city's buildings commissioner said at a City Council hearing. Later, in a clarification, the commissioner told reporters that the Buildings Department should not have approved the building as proposed, but left open the possibility that it might have been approved in a different configuration. PAGE B1 
 BUSINESS
 MERRILL LYNCH POSTS LOSS
 And Announces Jobs Cuts
 Merrill Lynch, the investment bank, posted a loss and announced that it would cut about 4,000 jobs by the end of the year, including 1,100 -- mostly in mortgage-related businesses -- that have already been cut. Merrill said in its earnings release that it had lost $1.96 billion or $2.19 a share, after write-downs, in the first three months, down from a profit of $2.106 billion or $2.26 a share in the period a year ago. PAGE C6
 USE OF PLASTIC BOTTLES DROPPED
 Nalgene Outdoor Products, which popularized water bottles made from hard, clear and nearly unbreakable polycarbonate, said it would stop using the plastic because of growing concern over one of its ingredients. The decision came after reports that the Canadian government would declare the chemical bisphenol-a, or B.P.A., toxic. PAGE C1
 INQUIRIES INTO SECURITIES MARKETING
 State regulators are stepping up their inquiries into auction-rate securities and how Wall Street banks sold them. Many investors found in February that they could no longer get out of the securities because hundreds of auctions of them failed when several big banks stopped bidding. The regulators are looking at how banks disclosed the risks of auction failures to investors. PAGE C6
 ORGANIC EATERS TESTED
 Prices are sharply rising for organic groceries, for many of the same reasons conventional food prices are going up: higher fuel costs, rising demand and a tight supply of grains. ''It's probably the most dynamic and volatile time I've seen in 25 years,'' said an executive for an organic dairy company, and the situation is testing the devotion of some organic fans. PAGE C1
 Times Co. Posts Quarterly Loss C8
 Bank Rocked in Scandal Reorganizes C3
 SPORTS
 ORIOLES' FALLING RECORD
 Is Mirrored in Stands
 Oriole Park might be full and buzzing this weekend, with the Yankees traveling to Baltimore for a three-game series. For years after it opened in 1992, the park always seemed that way, and the team set a franchise attendance record in 1997. But with the Orioles' falling record has come falling attendance, and those few in the stands can feel the baseball atmosphere suffering. PAGE D5
 A ROUTE OUT OF FOOTBALL
 Chris Anthony's football skills are well-suited for the Arena Football League, and he has spent six years as a wide receiver for the New York Dragons. But in a league not known for allowing its players to retire in financial security, he also has an exit strategy: he plans to walk away from football to attend medical school next fall. PAGE D2 
 A TEAM BETWEEN TWO CITIES
 The potential relocation of the Seattle Sonics is developing as the ugliest since Art Modell stunned Cleveland in 1995 with his plan to move the Browns to Baltimore, Richard Sandomir writes. The former owner says he's going to sue to get his hands back on the team, asserting that the new owner didn't try hard enough to keep the team in Seattle. Meanwhile, the N.B.A. board of governors is expected on Friday to vote to approve the team's application to move to Oklahoma City. PAGE D2 
 GIANTS AND JETS DRAFT POSSIBILITIES
 With the N.F.L. draft approaching, the Giants face questions more about what players they might lose than ones they stand to gain. Will Michael Strahan retire? Will the trade offers for Jeremy Shockey become irresistible? For the Jets, the positives of a negative record mean a higher draft position, and possibilities abound. Arkansas running back Darren McFadden and the Ohio State defensive hybrid Vernon Gholston are two. PAGE D7
 OBITUARIES
 SPEED VOGEL, 90
 An author's aide, his care of an ailing friend, the novelist Joseph Heller, became the fodder for a darkly comic best-selling chronicle of friendship, ''No Laughing Matter.'' He once worked as a herring taster at Zabar's, the landmark Manhattan delicatessen, but made his biggest mark as a kind of literary consort and dining companion. PAGE C11 
 JOSEPH SOLMAN, 99
 A painter and outspoken polemicist, he with Mark Rothko and other modernists helped shape American art as early as the 1930s. He was an artist for the Works Progress Administration, collaborating with Jackson Pollock and befriending Willem de Kooning. His portraits were elegant, moody and lean, like those of Modigliani. PAGE C11 
 HAZEL COURT, 82
 A British actress, she began as a popular ingenue and pinup girl and became a cult figure as a ''scream queen'' in horror films on both sides of the Atlantic. The redheaded, green-eyed beauty was best known for showing cleavage and screaming bloody murder in movies like the 1957 ''Curse of Frankenstein.'' PAGE C11 
 DANNY FEDERICI, 58
 The longtime keyboard player for Bruce Springsteen whose stylish work helped define the E Street Band's sound on hits from ''Hungry Heart'' through ''The Rising.'' It was Mr. Federici, along with original E Street Band drummer Vini Lopez, who first invited Mr. Springsteen to join their band.. PAGE C11 
 ESCAPES
 A SPRING PROMENADE
 With or Without the Boaters
 The Schuylkill in Philadelphia has been a magnet for rowers since the 1800s, with one notable oarsman of this century (notable also as the father of Grace Kelly) helping make the river the largest center of American rowing. Boathouse Row is still that, along with being Philadelphia's favorite springtime promenade. PAGE F4
 LIVING IN THE SPIRITS
 For some reason the West seems to have the franchise on the phrase ''ghost town,'' maybe because the region has made a commercial enterprise of them. But now the South is increasingly turning its attention to the tourism and promotional applications of its ghost towns, including several in central and southwest Alabama. PAGE F1
 Havens: Bandera, Tex. F3
 WEEKEND
 LOOKING TO EXPAND
 The Earth Day Experience
 The phrase ''Earth Day concert'' may well signal certain performers in the minds of some people. Jackson Browne, say. Bonnie Raitt. Which of course is all well and good, but the organizers of this weekend's national Green Apple Festival, with free concerts Sunday afternoon in eight cities, are looking to reach a younger and less traditional audience. PAGE E1 
 STEWARD OF SYNONYMS
 Peter Mark Roget gave the world a thesaurus, which is as much -- if not more -- than most people know about him. But a new biography, reviewed by Charles McGrath, reveals his assorted compulsions and quirks, along with his accomplishments. (And if you had had his family, you might have been quirky, too.) PAGE E35
 RECORD STORES FIGHT BACK
 Record stores are falling victim to some of the same economic forces hitting the rest of the music industry, and about 3,100 around the country have closed since 2003. But the survivors aren't giving up yet, and Saturday is Record Store Day, with events like Metallica greeting fans at Rasputin Music in Mountain View, Calif. PAGE E1
 MOVING ON, MOVING UP
 Word seeps out. Somebody left, with or without a new place to land. Perhaps the breakup is sudden, maybe it follows a long period of wooing. And then comes an announcement of the new relationship, and what is the spurned party, friends caught in the cross-fire, to do when it's officially out in the open: an artist has set up shop in a new gallery? PAGE E29
 A.O. Scott: 
 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall' E10 
 The Bride, Wrapped in Gloom E1
 Rugs of the Nomads E29
 EDITORIAL
 WHOSE PRIVILEGE?
 In the name of fighting terrorism -- and with a clear goal of avoiding accountability -- the Bush administration has imposed a level of secrecy on its operations that has no place in a democracy. PAGE A24
 STILL WAITING IN ZIMBABWE
 Zimbabwe's voters chose their next president almost three weeks ago, but government authorities still refuse to say who won. That says a lot because if President Robert Mugabe had been re-elected, the results would have been instantly proclaimed. PAGE A24
 CONSTRUCTION AND HARD TIMES
 With the recent exhumation of a Red Sox jersey from the site of the new Yankee Stadium, another sports arena will move forward jinx-free. If only the rest of New York City's grand development plans could get back on track so easily. PAGE A24
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Barack Obama's ''bitter'' comments combined assertions about economics, sociology and voting behavior. In each case, his assertion was mostly if not entirely wrong. PAGE A25
 DAVID BROOKS
 Furiously courting Democratic primary voters and apparently exhausted, Barack Obama has emerged as a more conventional politician and a more orthodox liberal. PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); TREASON (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HAMAS (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); RELIGION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); PASSOVER (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); POLYGAMY (62%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (79%); TIBET (79%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



484 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Workers Get Fewer Hours, Deepening the Downturn

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Not long ago, overtime was a regular feature at the Ludowici Roof Tile factory in eastern Ohio. Not anymore. With orders scarce and crates of unsold tiles piling up across the yard, the company has slowed production and cut working hours, sowing worry and thrift among its workers.
 ''We don't just hop in the car and go shopping or get something to eat,'' said Kim Baker, whose take-home pay at the plant has recently dropped to $450 a week, from more than $600. ''You've got to watch everything. If we go to town now, it's for a reason.''
 Throughout the country, businesses grappling with declining fortunes are cutting hours for those on their payrolls. Self-employed people are suffering a drop in demand for their services, like music lessons, catering and management consulting. Growing numbers of people are settling for part-time work out of a failure to secure a full-time position. 
 The gradual erosion of the paycheck has become a stealth force driving the American economic downturn. Most of the attention has focused on the loss of jobs and the risk of layoffs. But the less-noticeable shrinking of hours and pay for millions of workers around the country appears to be a bigger contributor to the decline, which has already spread from housing and finance to other important areas of the economy. 
 While official unemployment has risen only modestly, to 5.1 percent, the reduction of wages and working hours for those still employed has become a primary cause of distress, pushing many more Americans into a downward spiral, economists say.
 Moreover, this slippage is a critical indicator that the nation may well be on the verge of a recession, if not already in one.
 Last month, the hours worked by those on American payrolls dropped, compared with six months earlier, according to an index maintained by the Labor Department. The last time the index moved into negative territory was February 2001, when the economy was on the doorstep of recession. A similar slide emerged in August 1990, one month into what proved an even more severe downturn. 
 From March 2007 to March of this year, the average workweek reported in the private sector slipped slightly to 33.8 hours, from 33.9 hours, while overtime for manufacturing workers fell by a larger margin. 
 At the end of last month, more than 4.9 million people were working part time either because they could not find full-time jobs or because their companies had cut hours in the face of slack business, according to a Labor Department survey. That represented an increase of 400,000 since November. 
 And on Wednesday, the government reported that average earnings slipped in March after accounting for the rising costs of food and fuel -- the sixth consecutive month that pay failed to keep pace with inflation. 
 As people bring home paychecks that do not go as far, they are forced to economize, eliminating demand for goods and services that once captured their dollars, spreading pain to providers like auto dealers and lawn care providers. They, too, must trim their outlays on pay, shrinking working hours more and furthering the slowdown 
 ''It means spending slows going forward,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the trading and research firm ITG. 
 Paychecks are diminishing just as millions of Americans are finding their access to credit constricted as well. Borrowing against the value of real estate -- a crucial artery of household finance in recent years -- has been pared back as home prices have plummeted and as banks have tightened lending standards in the aftermath of the collapse of the housing bubble. 
 ''At this point, those avenues are blocked,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''Consumption going forward is going to be in large part a good old-fashioned function of paychecks and incomes.''
 Even before the rollback in working hours, pay was barely keeping up with the rising costs of gas and food. From February to September of last year, the average hourly earnings for workers in the private sector was still growing at a slightly faster clip than the pace of inflation, according to the Labor Department. But from November through March, as employers began to scale back in a variety of ways, wage growth fell below the pace of inflation, meaning that paychecks were effectively shrinking.
 Now, work opportunities are themselves declining, as the downturn snuffs out business.
 In the suburbs of Denver, Max Garcia was netting as much as $2,000 a month last year as a self-employed computer repairman, he said. As recently as November, he was still receiving three and four calls for help a week. But since early February, calls have dropped to one a week or fewer, he said.
 ''Everybody's getting tighter,'' he said -- himself included. With his income cut in half, Mr. Garcia, a single father, no longer takes his two young daughters out for fast food, he said. For clothing, he now goes to secondhand stores instead of the mall. For amusement, he visits the park instead of the museum.
 ''We spend more time at home,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''We don't drive anywhere we don't have to.''
 In Los Angeles, William Righi, a musician, bemoans the sudden difficulty of getting jazz and blues gigs at restaurants and parties. He gives fewer private singing lessons to high school students.
 ''Their parents don't want to pay,'' Mr. Righi sighed. ''They don't have the money to burn. In the last month, it's really dropped off.''
 With his income down, Mr. Righi has been putting off buying new musical instruments and sheet music. He has curtailed his traveling. 
 At a factory in Lancaster, Pa., Armstrong World Industries, which makes flooring products, cut production of vinyl sheets for two weeks in March in reaction to softening demand for its goods, the company said. 
 Management is now seeking to slow production further, said Joe Rumberger, president of the local branch of the United Steelworkers, which represents workers there. 
 Some of those sent home received temporary unemployment benefits, he said, securing government checks of about $520 a week in lieu of paychecks that reached $900. 
 ''It hurts,'' he said. ''If you're not working, unemployment checks only go so far.''
 At many companies, management is hanging on to as many workers as it can, cutting hours to try to limit layoffs, while hoping that business improves.
 As the construction business deteriorated rapidly last fall, so did demand for the ceramic tiles produced in New Lexington, Ohio, at the Ludowici factory. In November, the company began drastically cutting overtime for many workers. The following month it laid off several people. Last month, the factory resorted to layoffs, cutting the hourly work force to 81, from 93. It idled the kiln on weekends.
 But even as sales fell, the company kept producing, building up stocks of tiles that it assumed it could sell eventually.
 ''We thought that would be a smart way to do it in order to keep people working,'' said Derek Thomas, the plant manager. ''The philosophy around here is we remain hopeful that things are going to pick up.''
 But if fresh orders do not arrive soon, Mr. Thomas acknowledged that his hopes were likely to be dashed. In that case, he said, the company was facing further ''head count reductions.''
 With his overtime pay gone and faced with the ugly potential of a layoff from the job he has known for 14 years, Mr. Baker, the plant worker, is streamlining his spending every way he can.
 This time of year, he would normally be planning a trip through Ohio in his camper. But he does not expect to take to the road anytime soon. ''Not with the money flowing the way it is,'' he said, ''and the price of gas.''
 To John E. Silvia, chief economist for Wachovia, the banking company based in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Baker and his boss are representative of a national economy that is hunkered down and awaiting better while worrying about worse.
 ''You've got a lot of people sitting around now,'' he said, ''waiting and hoping for orders.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Baker works at a roof tile factory with declining business. ''We don't just hop in the car and go shopping or get something to eat,'' he said, with his daughter Bailey and wife, Debbie, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. KEVIN FITZSIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A23) CHART: Recessionary Signs: In an echo of past recessions, several key economic indicators have recently begun to signal troubles in the job market, even among those currently employed. Chart details various line graphs for People employed part time for economic and Six-month change in an annualized index of aggregate hours worked
Year-over-year change in average hourly earnings
 adjusted for inflation(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); OVERTIME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ROOFING MATERIALS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); WORK WEEK (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



485 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

 BODY:
FALLING WAGES As businesses cut hours for their workers, shrinking paychecks for millions of Americans appears to be a big contributor to the economic downturn. 
 THE SHRINKING FOOD CHAIN On grocery shelves across the nation, sharp price increases for organic foods are taking hold, leaving some consumers to question their food purchases. [C1.] 
 The global food crisis is not only being felt among the poor but is also eroding the gains of the working and middle classes, sowing volatile levels of growing discontent. [A1.]
 STRONG QUARTER FOR GOOGLEGoogle reported a 30 percent increase in first-quarter profit after international sales countered a slowdown in domestic advertising spending. [C1.]
 REVERSAL OF FORTUNE Iceland's long economic boom has ended in a painful bust, with rising inflation, a falling currency and its banks fending off rumors that they may need a bailout. [C1.]
 PLASTIC DROPPED Nalgene, the company that popularized polycarbonate bottles, will stop using the plastic because of safety concerns about a substance used in the manufacturing process. [C1.]
 NEW UNION FOR PILOTS Frustrated by a dispute over seniority, US Airways pilots ousted their union and agreed to be represented by another group. [C2.]
 SONY BMG RESHUFFLES The legendary music executive Clive Davis will step down as head of the RCA Music Group and take a creative post at Sony BMG Music Entertainment. [C3.]
 FANNIE MAE SETTLEMENT Federal regulators are expected to announce a settlement with three former senior executives of Fannie Mae over their alleged roles in an accounting scandal. [C3.]
 BAILOUT IN BRITAIN The Bank of England is working on a plan to take over mortgage-backed assets from banks in an effort to ease the constraints on credit and mortgage markets. [C3.]
 SHAKE-UP AT FRENCH BANK Societe Generale said that its chief executive, Daniel Bouton, would step down as the bank tries to rebuild its damaged reputation. [C3.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); INFLATION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (68%); SCANDALS (68%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); CURRENCIES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (82%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%); RCA MUSIC GROUP (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (82%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: DANIEL BOUTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



486 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Joins Rivals in Raising Extra Cash

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Hours after reporting its worst results in years on Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase quietly disclosed plans to raise $6 billion in expensive debt. 
 JPMorgan has been widely perceived as navigating the credit crisis better than its peers, avoiding huge losses from complex mortgage-related investments and engineering an emergency takeover of Bear Stearns last month. Now, it is joining them in moving to secure financing from outside investors. 
 Pricing terms for the public offering are still unclear. The shares are expected to pay a fixed 7.9 percent dividend for 10 years and a floating rate after that date. That is costly financing, though cheaper than the rates that Citigroup and UBS, its more troubled rivals, have secured. 
 Executives briefed on the matter said Thursday that the bank was raising the money because it wanted to, not because it needed to. Still, the fund-raising effort took analysts and investors by surprise. 
 James Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, and Michael J. Cavanagh, the finance chief, left no hints when they hosted a conference call Wednesday morning to discuss the bank's earnings. Instead, they stressed the strength of JPMorgan's balance sheet, citing capital levels that they said were among the highest of their peers. 
 As a matter of policy, JPMorgan do not announce deals before they are officially filed. But for a bank that prides itself on transparency, such coyness seemed strange, analysts said.
 Some questioned whether JPMorgan was raising money in anticipation of losses in the next few months. Despite its capital cushion, the bank has been exposed to souring home equity and credit card loans, where losses are expected to accelerate. It is taking tens of billions of dollars worth of assets from Bear Stearns on its balance sheet. 
 Bank executives with knowledge of the matter have also acknowledged potential problems with holdings of commercial real estate, small-business loans and mortgages granted to creditworthy borrowers whose home values have plummeted.
 By raising money, the bank may also be bolstering its ability to finance clients at a time when capital is dear, analysts said. Such a move would give the bank flexibility to pursue cash deals. 
 JPMorgan's widely reported offer for Washington Mutual was rejected, a number of analysts have said, because it was in stock, not cash.
 ''Part of being a good operator is having a rainy-day fund,'' said David Hendler, a banking analyst at CreditSights, a credit research provider. Having a large amount of capital, he added, means that ''when you make a takeover offer, it is hard to refuse because the balance sheet will be strong.''
 Bank executives also insist that JPMorgan, like many banks, should be taking prudent action to strengthen its capital position, an action being encouraged by regulators at the New York Federal Reserve. 
 ''Everybody needs capital because everybody needs to report losses,'' said Joseph Mason, a finance professor at Drexel University in Philadelphia. ''The good news is that they can.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Street Scene page on Friday about JPMorgan Chase's plans to raise $6 billion in additional capital misspelled the surname of its chief financial officer in some editions. He is Michael J. Cavanagh, not Cavanaugh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



487 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: A Hotbed Of Sins, Old or New

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A few weeks before Pope Benedict XVI's American journey, the Vatican issued a new lineup of what are commonly referred to as the seven deadly sins, retooled for modern times.
 Not that the Roman Catholic Church discarded the old list. Pride, anger, envy, avarice, lust, gluttony and (our favorite) sloth have all stood the test of centuries. But a new age brings with it new sins. So said Msgr. Gianfranco Girotti, regent of the Vatican's Apostolic Penitentiary, the office concerned with matters of penance and absolution. Something about the word ''penitentiary'' focuses the attention of even non-Catholics.
 ''If yesterday sin had a rather individualistic dimension, today it has a weight, a resonance, that is especially social,'' Monsignor Girotti told L'Osservatore Romano, the official Vatican newspaper. 
 Now, we are not so self-centered as to think that the church had New York in mind when it reconfigured the ways to land on the road to perdition. Nonetheless, a disheartening number of the new sins all but define this city. If the Vatican has it right, our mortal souls could be in peril, people.
 One transgression is the accumulation of excessive wealth. Excessive wealth in New York -- you think?
 A news report this week said that the manager of one New York hedge fund, John Paulson, made $3.7 billion in 2007. That comes to $422,374 an hour. Together, the top 50 hedge fund managers in the world, most of them New York-based, earned $29 billion last year. Might those numbers manage to fall within the Vatican's definition of excessive?
 Social inequality and injustice form another sin. A glance around the city and the state makes the point quickly enough.
 Underlining that reality is a new study by an Albany-based research group, the Fiscal Policy Institute. It shows that the gap between rich and poor in New York State keeps widening. A chasm is more like it. In the late 1980s, the study said, families in the top 20 percent of earners made about seven times as much as those in the bottom 20 percent. By the middle of this decade, they were making about nine times as much.
 As for injustice, is the city truly doing its best to enforce safety rules for construction workers when several of them have died on the job this year? The latest, Kevin Kelly of Queens, fell nine floors the other day after his safety harness failed him at a construction side on East 67th Street.
 Causing poverty is another Vatican no-no. How about the city-union contract that shrank the starting annual pay of police recruits to $25,100 from $40,000? More than a few men and women at the Police Academy are having trouble keeping body and soul together on that $25,100 (which, back to inequality, is what it took Mr. Paulson about three and a half minutes to make).
 The salary is so low that Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly was moved last year to say that ''nobody becomes a police officer to become rich, but you have to live.''
 Then we have a stricture against drug abuse. That we have a drug problem in New York, even with the waning of the crack epidemic, is no revelation. A question now is whether we are doing right by some low-level offenders when we send them to prison instead of a rehab center to overcome their habit.
 Environmental pollution makes the Vatican list. Easing pollution was a primary goal of City Hall's congestion pricing plan to discourage cars from entering Manhattan's business district. As you know, that proposal bit the dust in Albany without a legislative vote. So much for lawmakers' worrying about the possibility of committing a mortal transgression.
 Then again, perhaps they took a different sin to heart. The new lineup includes a prohibition against morally debatable experimentation. Maybe lawmakers felt that congestion pricing qualified as such an experiment, what with its $8 fee that might have been financially rough on some drivers.
 Not that we believe Albany necessarily deserves so charitable an interpretation. But it shows how tricky an issue sin can be. Trying to avoid one sin may well lead a person to commit another.
 One thing is certain: There is more than enough here to lead to damnation. But we trust the pope to be merciful and to forgive us our trespasses when he celebrates Mass at Yankee Stadium on Sunday.
 Besides, we are not irredeemable sinners. One other transgression on the list involves genetic manipulation. Unless you know someone who is trying to clone a human in a secret lab, we seem to be O.K. on that one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); POLICE FORCES (73%); RANKINGS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



488 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE POPE'S VISIT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Benedict Meets With the Victims Of Sexual Abuse

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER and LAURIE GOODSTEIN; Neela Banerjee, Abby Goodnough and Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Pope Benedict XVI came face to face Thursday with a scandal that has left lasting wounds on the American church, holding an unannounced meeting with several victims of sexual abuse by priests in the Boston area. 
 Cardinal Sean P. O'Malley of Boston, who organized the meeting and attended, gave the pope a notebook listing some 1,000 boys and girls who had been abused in the Boston Archdiocese alone going back several decades, a Vatican official said. 
 The pope had requested the meeting, said the official, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, which took place at the papal nuncio's residence. The handful of victims are roughly in middle age. The pope prayed and spoke personally with each of them, in a meeting that lasted about 25 minutes. Some wept, Father Lombardi said. 
 ''It was a moving experience,'' Cardinal O'Malley told reporters afterward. ''It was very positive and very prayerful.'' 
 The meeting made clear that for all the messages that Benedict wished to send during his five-day trip to the United States, his first as pope, the one concerning priestly abuse was central. He raised the issue first with reporters on his trip from Rome on Tuesday, and did so for a third time Thursday morning in a huge open Mass at Nationals Park before nearly 50,000 people, his first major encounter with the country's diverse church. 
 ''No words of mine could describe the pain and harm inflicted by such abuse,'' the pope said in his homily. ''It is important that those who have suffered be given loving pastoral attention.''
 Three of the survivors, speaking on CNN last night, reacted positively to the meeting.
 One of them, Bernie McDaid said he had told the pope that ''he has a cancer growing in his ministry and needs to do something about it.'' But Mr. McDaid said he came away feeling that victims would get action. 
 Another, Olan Horne said, ''My hope is restored today.'' He said the pope had spoken frankly and had been with the victims longer than they had expected.
 The unannounced meeting far overshadowed the rest of the pope's schedule, on the third day of his trip to the United States and a day before he leaves for New York to address the United Nations. 
 But he also gave a substantial address to Catholic educators, many of whom have been struggling with shortages of money, changing missions and conflicts over whether Catholic schools are Catholic enough. He spoke to about 200 college presidents and the superintendents of Catholic schools in the nation's 195 dioceses.
 At a time when many dioceses are closing down schools for K-12 students, Benedict emphasized the importance of keeping them open, especially to serve immigrants and the underprivileged. He also used the occasion to clarify limits, saying that although academic freedom is valuable, it must not be used to ''justify positions that contradict the faith and the teaching of the church.''
 There have been sporadic controversies over what kinds of curriculum, outside speakers, campus clubs and artistic expressions are acceptable at Catholic colleges and universities. The pope did not refer explicitly to those controversies. But he addressed them indirectly when he said that church teachings must shape ''all aspects of an institution's life, both inside and outside the classroom.''
 The pope had additional healing work to do at his evening encounter with Muslim, Jewish, Buddhist, Hindu and Jain religious leaders. On a previous trip, to his German homeland, Benedict had set off a paroxysm of anger with comments that appeared to denigrate Islam. He has also offended Jewish leaders by reinstituting a prayer for the conversion of the Jews in the Latin prayers on Good Friday.
 On Thursday, he offered an olive branch to Jewish leaders, and affirmed that all religions should have a common goal of working for peace. And he spoke of the need to protect religious freedom, pointing out that religious minorities in some countries are subject to prejudice.
 For years, victims of abuse in the United States had beseeched the Vatican for a meeting with the pope, first asking John Paul II, who died in 2005, and finally, six years after the outbreak of the scandal, one was granted. The scandal affected nearly every diocese in America, revealed more than 5,000 abusive priests and more than 13,000 victims and has cost the church more than $2 billion in settlements and legal fees. It also has cost the church trust and respect, both of which the pope is clearly aimed at restoring. 
 But reaction from victims and their advocates varied, with some praising the meeting as an important step and others saying that still it was not enough. 
 ''This is a small, long-overdue step forward on a very long road,'' Joelle Casteix, southwestern regional director of the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, said in a statement. ''We're confident the meeting was meaningful for the participants, and we're grateful that these victims have had the courage to come forward and speak up.
 ''But fundamentally, it won't change things,'' Ms. Casteix said. ''Kids need action. Catholics deserve action. Action produces reform, and reform -- real reform -- is sorely needed in the church hierarchy.''
 But Gary Bergeron, who said he had been abused by a priest in Lowell, Mass., said: ''I think we moved the ball down the field this week. The fact that we finally got the pope to actually stand up and put a statement on record, I really think he set the bar this week.''
 Mr. Bergeron, author of the book ''Don't Call Me a Victim,'' went to Rome in 2003 and tried to meet with John Paul II, with no success. 
 ''We made some progress this week, and that's what's important,'' he said. 
 Mitchell Garabedian, a lawyer who represented hundreds of people abused by priests, none of whom attended the meeting with the pope, said he hoped the pontiff would meet with more victims. 
 ''He certainly will need more than a half hour to understand the pain victims are feeling because of being sexually abused by priests,'' Mr. Garabedian said. 
 While the meeting with victims was historic, and a surprise, it is the address the pope gave to Catholic educators that is most likely to receive scrutiny within the church. 
 Benedict praised Catholic schools that have ''helped generations of immigrants to rise from poverty to take their place in mainstream society.'' And he encouraged Catholics to continue to contribute generously to Catholic schools ''to ensure that they are accessible to people of all social and economic strata.''
 Catholic universities and colleges have come under fire for inviting speakers who favor abortion rights, like Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Eliot Spitzer and Stanley Tucci, the actor, who was dropped from an event at Catholic University. The University of Notre Dame was criticized for allowing a campus staging of ''The Vagina Monologues,'' an edgy feminist theater piece.
 The pope insisted on adherence to church doctrine, saying, ''Divergence from this vision weakens Catholic identity, and, far from advancing freedom, inevitably leads to confusion, whether moral, intellectual or spiritual.'' 
 For faculty members, he said: ''I wish to reaffirm the great value of academic freedom. In virtue of this freedom you are called to search for the truth wherever careful analysis of evidence leads you. Yet it is also the case that any appeal to the principle of academic freedom in order to justify positions that contradict the faith and teaching of the church would obstruct or even betray the university's identity and mission.''
 The educators in the room were encouraged by the pope's speech, and applauded his call to keep schools open for poor students. 
 The Rev. Robert A. Wild, the president of Marquette University, said after the pope's speech: ''What was most striking to me is what it was not. We were not being told that most Catholic schools are not faithful to our message. It was not a finger-waving exercise. It was mostly to encourage us.''
 At the new Nationals Park, with a gorgeous view of the Capitol, the outdoor Mass combined the spiritual with the spectacular: Some 46,000 people waved Vatican flags and shed tears when Benedict arrived in his popemobile, in a ball-field setting complete with sausage and $20 souvenir pope hats.
 The Mass was the pope's first real encounter with the American church, and the people in the stands poured out affection as much as shined a mirror of their diverse self back onto Benedict: conservative and liberal, black, white, Latino and Asian. Although Benedict is avowedly part of the church's more orthodox wing, some at the Mass said he seemed on this American trip eager to address the full church, in all its complexity. 
 ''He is open to things, and that gives a feeling of hope to people who have felt left out,'' said Barbara Thomas, 51, an administrative assistant from Columbia, Md. 
 In a shift of perception that the Vatican clearly hoped would be common on this trip, Ms. Thomas said she had found him ''more open, not so stern as what the general impression had been.''
 Steve Brown, 55, a doctor from Fairfax, Va., said that seeing the pope was particularly important to him because he is suffering from terminal cancer. 
 ''Seeing him in person gave me a warm feeling of being at peace,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Just his aura -- a kind of spirituality that emanated from him. Before I wasn't as moved with him as I was with John Paul II. Now, seeing him, I feel moved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pope Benedict XVI, on his first papal visit to the United States, walked through a crowd of supporters Thursday after a Mass at Nationals Park in Washington before nearly 50,000 people.
Sunrise confession taking place under tents at the baseball stadium in Washington before Benedict arrived for Mass.
People waved Vatican flags and shed tears when Benedict arrived, in a ball-field setting complete with souvenir pope hats.
 Benedict, shown greeting representatives of other religions, affirmed that all religions should share a goal to seek peace.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) MAP: The Pope's New York Itinerary: Friday morning, Pope Benedict XVI will begin his three-day visit to New York City. Map details route of activities. (pg. A19) (Source: United States Conference of Catholic Bishops) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); BASEBALL (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (59%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



489 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Dealbook Extra

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON

 BODY:
Deal in the Air
 Delta Air Lines this week announced its long-awaited, much-discussed although supposedly secret deal to merge with Northwest Airlines. Shareholders of Delta, which is the acquirer in the transaction, did not seem immediately overjoyed. 
 Why the gloom? Maybe Delta's shareholders -- many of whom used to be its creditors -- were thinking wistfully about the wads of cash they would have gotten if Delta had accepted US Airways' unsolicited bid to buy it out of bankruptcy, instead of emerging last year as a stand-alone airline.
 Consider this back-of-the-envelope calculation. In January 2007, US Airways raised its offer to buy Delta out of bankruptcy. The sweetened bid proposed giving Delta's creditors $5 billion in cash and 89.5 million US Airways shares. 
 Fast forward to April 15, 2008. How much would that package be worth? Well, US Airways' stock has plunged in the last year or so, so the stock component has a market value of about $750 million. But last time we checked, $5 billion in cash was still worth $5 billion, give or take the effects of inflation.
 But that deal was not to be. Delta's management, its pilots and many employees successfully fended off the US Airways bid, and Delta filed its own stand-alone reorganization plan. Under that plan, unsecured creditors received only Delta stock.
 Delta is still sifting through its bankruptcy claims, but here is the math so far, from Delta's latest annual filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 As of Jan. 31, 2008, former Delta creditors who were owed about $12.5 billion have gotten 278 million Delta shares. The market value of those shares now: about $2.6 billion.
 Of course, many former creditors have probably sold their Delta shares by now. And to be fair, a Delta-US Airways merger faced potential scrutiny from regulators, so creditors might have been smart to go with the safer bet. 
 Also, when Delta was preparing to emerge, few people expected fuel prices to spike, hammering the value of Delta's post-Chapter 11 stock. In fact, Delta's reorganization plan estimated that fuel prices would rise just 5 percent each year through 2010.
 Instead, the reorganized Delta has faced soaring fuel prices, which is part of the reason the company is now so eager to combine with Northwest. 
 Yes, hindsight is always 20/20. Even so, that $5 billion in cash is probably looking pretty good right now. 
 PETER EDMONSTON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); TAKEOVERS (79%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



490 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: A British Leader's Day With President No. 43 and 44

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain came to Washington on Thursday to celebrate what he called the ''special relationship'' between his country and the United States. But before dropping in at the White House, Mr. Brown had other business to tend to: meeting the candidates vying to succeed President Bush.
 In a stark reminder to Mr. Bush that his time in office is short, Mr. Brown held back-to-back sessions at the British ambassador's residence with Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, the Democratic contenders, and with Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee. 
 Speaking to reporters in the Rose Garden, Mr. Bush shrugged the meetings off. When Mr. Brown was asked if the trans-Atlantic relationship might improve under a new president, Mr. Bush interjected, ''One of those three has a good chance of winning.'' 
 Mr. Brown ducked the question. ''It is for Americans to decide who their president is going to be,'' he said. He added, ''What I was convinced of, after talking to each of them and talking about the issues that concern them and concern the world, is that the relationship between America and Britain will remain strong, remain steadfast.''
 The three campaigns offered only bare-bones descriptions of the sessions, which lasted 45 minutes each and took place without aides. Of the three candidates, only Mr. Obama had not met previously with Mr. Brown. An aide to Mrs. Clinton said that the two had known each other previously, and an aide to Mr. McCain said that the senator met with Mr. Brown in London just last month. A White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, endorsed the meetings as ''a wise move.'' 
 At home, Mr. Brown is facing some of the same problems Mr. Bush faces here: low approval ratings and a shaky economy. Mr. Bush and Mr. Brown's predecessor, Tony Blair, were extraordinarily close, and Mr. Blair suffered for it, earning the derogatory nickname ''Bush's poodle.'' Mr. Brown, unlike Mr. Blair, has been critical of the war in Iraq, and his relationship with Mr. Bush is said to be frostier.
 But under the hot sun in the Rose Garden on Thursday, there seemed to be plenty of warmth -- and little daylight -- between them.
 Mr. Brown opened up with praise for his host: ''The world owes President George Bush a huge debt of gratitude for leading the world in our determination to root out terrorism.''
 On Iraq, Mr. Brown said there was ''no artificial timetable.'' Shortly after taking office, he said he intended to begin withdrawing troops from Basra, the city in southern Iraq for which the British have responsibility. But the recent instability there has put the plan on hold.
 On Iran, a country Mr. Bush accuses of trying to develop nuclear weapons, both men had harsh words. Mr. Bush said Iran's leaders had ''proven themselves untrustworthy,'' while Mr. Brown said he would ''make no apology'' for trying to persuade European leaders to seek sanctions.
 If there was a word of the day, it was ''special,'' as in relationship. Between them, the two leaders used it nine times. But when a British reporter suggested that the ''special relationship'' between the countries was ''a little less special'' now than when Mr. Blair was in office, Mr. Bush grew a little tongue-tied and struggled for words. 
 ''Listen, our special relationship has been forged in common values and history, and we're making history together,'' he said, adding: ''Our relationship is very special and it's -- I'm confident future presidents will keep it that way. There's just such a uniqueness in the relationship. That's not to say you can't have other friends, and we do. But this is a unique relationship, truly is.''
 Apparently not satisfied with his own answer, Mr. Bush finished up: ''Look, if there wasn't a personal relationship, I wouldn't be inviting the man to a nice hamburger. Well done, I might add.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain discussed Iran, terrorism and the strength of their nations' ties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); IRAQ WAR (60%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TONY BLAIR (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



491 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats Debate: Aren't There Better Questions?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Tense Debate, Clinton Employs Sharp Attacks'' (front page, April 17):
 With the stakes so high in the forthcoming Pennsylvania vote, I was hoping that the debate between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama would take the high road. 
 Instead, I was offered a nauseating series of questions about why Mr. Obama did not wear an American flag pin in his lapel, his association with a fiery minister who was critical of American policies and his use of the word ''bitter'' in describing unemployed voters' feelings about losing their jobs. 
 When the debate was over, I felt the need for a long, hot shower to cleanse myself of the dirt that had been exchanged.
 As a voter, I still feel the need for a true debate between the two candidates on their major positions to solve our nation's many problems rather than exchanges of insulting remarks about each other's character. 
 Cy Shain San Francisco, April 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Gail Collins (''Battle of the Baggage,'' column, April 17) writes that ''in the first half-hour of the 24th debate Wednesday night, the Democratic candidates for president tossed personal baggage back and forth like a tennis ball.'' 
 That was a half-hour when major issues weren't discussed.
 This was not the fault of the candidates, but of their interrogators, who demanded answers only to questions about character. 
 I was left disgusted with the moderators, Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. It was irresponsible of them to waste the opportunity to clarify for the American people the views of the candidates on matters of importance. 
 Margaret Grubbs Newtown, Pa., April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



492 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: At Merrill, Write-Downs and More Layoffs

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
After announcing dismal earnings and layoffs on Thursday, John A. Thain, still new to his role as chairman and chief executive of Merrill Lynch, dialed onto a conference call with some of the bank's 16,660 financial advisers to answer tough questions.
 The advisers, scattered across the country, have found themselves in recent months in the uncomfortable position of explaining how Merrill has taken roughly $30 billion in write-downs largely related to mortgages even as they ask people to entrust them with their money. 
 On the call, one financial adviser asked Mr. Thain whether he was thinking about splitting their unit, the still-profitable wealth management division, from Merrill's trading and investment banking unit. Mr. Thain demurred.
 It has not been easy stepping in as chief executive during what is arguably the most turbulent time in Merrill's history.
 But Mr. Thain, the former chief of the New York Stock Exchange, seemed relaxed on Thursday as he talked about the recession confronting the United States and the bank's prospects overseas. He said the reputation of Wall Street had not been harmed by the credit crisis as much as it was after the technology bubble burst.
 ''It's not like these securities were foisted on poor investors in Iowa,'' Mr. Thain said about the toxic mortgage bonds that have cost his bank so dearly. ''It's not as bad as 2001 because, for the most part, Wall Street has suffered the most.''
 Merrill knows the pain firsthand. On Thursday Merrill announced a total write-down of $9.7 billion, including $3.1 billion of write-downs that were not included in the bank's income statement. The write-downs are on top of $25 billion taken in the second half of last year, and there could be more to come. 
 Merrill also said that it would lay off an additional 2,900 people, on top of the 1,100 jobs already eliminated this year. The bank lost $1.96 billion, or $2.20 a share, in the first three months, a sharp contrast to a profit of $2.10 billion during the period a year ago. Revenue, including interest and dividends, was $2.9 billion -- down 69 percent from a year ago. 
 The market initially reacted negatively. Merrill's shares fell $2, or 4.6 percent, in trading before the market opened; shares closed at $46.71, up $1.82 or 4 percent. Moody's Investors Service placed the bank's long-term debt on review for a possible downgrade, predicting that Merrill will take another $6 billion in write-downs in coming quarters.
 ''Everyone knew that results were going to be challenging,'' said William F. Tanona, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''However, results were actually worse than most people were expecting.'' 
 Analysts were widely predicting about $6 billion in write-downs, but the $3.1 billion that were not included on the income statement was more surprising. That amount was taken outside of the income statement -- which could indicate that the bank believes it may be able to write those assets back up when the markets improve. The bank also reported a $2.1 billion gain in value in some of its structured notes -- which tempered the impact of the write-downs.
 Unlike some of his peers on Wall Street, Merrill's chief is not predicting an economic recovery anytime soon.
 ''So far the slowdown has been finance-driven,'' Mr. Thain said. ''What we haven't seen yet is the impact on the consumer of falling house prices, rising energy prices, higher food prices and higher unemployment.'' 
 The recession, he said, is going to move from being a finance-driven problem to a consumer-driven one, and Merrill may continue to struggle as a result.
 Merrill's job cuts will come from the global markets and investment banking division, which includes fixed-income, currency, commodity and equity trading as well as banking. That part of the bank recorded a pretax loss of $4 billion this quarter and negative revenue of $690 million. The layoffs will save $800 million a year in compensation expenses, the bank said. 
 When asked about additional layoffs, Mr. Thain said, ''I think 4,000 is enough for the environment we're in today.'' 
 He said that Merrill was reacting to the downturn not only with job cuts but also by deleveraging its assets. He also said the bank was on solid footing; it has raised more than $12 billion in fresh capital, including some from sovereign wealth funds of foreign governments.
 Merrill's network of financial advisers are not affected by any of the announced job cuts, the company said. Those individuals work in the bank's wealth management unit, which was profitable this quarter with earnings of $720 million. And in some ways that unit is providing the firm's bread and butter -- a reversal of recent years when the banking and trading divisions produced soaring revenues.
 So the financial advisers are in a position to ask what they want of Mr. Thain.
 ''Are you happy you came here?'' one asked during the call Thursday.
 Yes, Mr. Thain said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The $1.9 billion loss Merrill Lynch reported for the first quarter was worse than Wall Street had expected.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); BONDS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



493 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Looking Up, But From A Deep Hole

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. 
 Business is bad, but the capital keeps pouring in.
 Since the big banks first realized last fall that their capital situations were perilous, more than $100 billion has been poured into them. Without all that cash, the system would be in horrid shape, and there would be a lot more blood on the Street.
 Some Wall Street bosses now profess to see light at the end of the tunnel, and they may be right. ''The worst is behind us,'' Richard S. Fuld Jr., Lehman's chief executive, told his shareholders this week, just two weeks after Lehman raised $3 billion by selling convertible preferred stock on terms that were onerous but not debilitating. 
 The trouble with such assurances is that the bosses of Wall Street have been repeatedly blindsided by newly discovered risks that their firms -- and others -- had taken. Today's optimism may prove to be correct, but it follows a lot of other optimism that was not.
 Three months ago, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, I commented to one of the best-known men in American finance that he seemed pretty glum. 
 He agreed, and said that was true for virtually every financial executive there.
 But he said, there was one exception. John Thain, the newly appointed chief executive of Merrill Lynch, was smiling a lot, he said, and with good reason. 
 He asserted that Mr. Thain knew that Merrill had taken at least $2 billion more in write-offs than were really needed, leaving him an ample cushion for any new problems that might appear.
 If so -- and Mr. Thain would not comment when I asked him about it -- the optimism was misplaced. On Thursday, Merrill announced an additional $6.5 billion in new write-offs. 
 In January, Mr. Thain did tell me he had raised more capital than Merrill really had to have, and the latest write-offs are not being accompanied by a search for more capital, another indication of confidence.
 If the capital-raising frenzy is ending, it is clear that those Wall Street firms that acted most rapidly to raise capital were able to get money on the best terms. There was a lot of sneering when Citigroup, in November, raised $7.5 billion from Abu Dhabi. To be sure, it will pay 11 percent interest for a while, a phenomenally high rate even if it is structured to be tax-deductible. But Abu Dhabi will eventually get common stock at a price of $31.89 or higher -- a price more than 30 percent above the current quote.
 In general, it appears that the sovereign wealth funds that moved in quickly could have gotten better deals by waiting. But at least Citic Securities, the Chinese company that announced a $1 billion investment in Bear Stearns in October, avoided disaster. Perhaps Citic sensed disaster coming, and the transaction was never completed. 
 Longstanding shareholders in Wall Street firms are suffering, albeit not as much as those in Bear. When they could have raised capital, most of these firms were instead buying back shares at high prices, a tactic that pushed up earnings per share until the earnings vanished. Dilution has been inevitable, and painful.
 Still, some banks have handled it better than others. Last week Washington Mutual raised $7 billion in capital by selling stock at prices well below market to a private equity fund. WaMu even threw in below-market warrants to sweeten the deal. Some of the company's existing shareholders might have lusted after the same deal, but it was not offered to them.
 That is one reason that WaMu's shareholder meeting this week was so unfriendly. One director was forced out, and shareholders approved a proposal asking for an independent chairman. The current chairman and chief executive, Kerry Killinger, got to hear calls for him to resign both jobs, but stood his ground. ''I understand it hurts,'' he said. ''I want people to calm down, have a little faith.''
 By contrast, Wachovia this week raised $7 billion in a public offering that gave existing shareholders a chance to get in on the deal. The terms were not as onerous as those WaMu accepted. Whether or not the investment works out remains to be seen, of course, but Wachovia's deal did not smack of favoritism in the way the WaMu deal did.
 One question now is whether the banks have finally cleaned up their balance sheets and marked down dubious securities and mortgages to the point that fewer write-offs will be needed, and whether the banks have adequate capital to ride out the storms that are remaining.
 Even if the capital is not adequate, however, investors are starting to assume that the government stands behind Wall Street. The share prices of investment banks began to recover just after the Fed made it clear the investment banks could borrow from it. 
 It appears that the real way we are going to get out of this crisis is to have the government guarantee lots of things. ''The universal cry of the bust is, 'Give me a government guarantee,' '' said Alex J. Pollack, a former president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago who is now a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, speaking at a conference at the Levy Institute of Bard College here in Annandale-on-Hudson on Thursday. As private balance sheets are cut back to reduce leverage, he forecast, the government's balance sheet will grow rapidly.
 All those government guarantees may reduce the risk of failure, but there are still perils for investors in bank stocks. With credit hard to come by, the real economy may be in for rough times, creating more loan losses. Wall Street may not need to beg for any more capital, but it is a good bet that its layoffs are only starting. There is not much need for the people who put together securitizations when there is virtually no market for such deals.
 The reported profits from those securitizations were a major reason that shares in investment banks did better than shares in almost any other industry for eight years, until disaster began to strike last year. If that market does not revive, profits may be disappointing even if the flows of red ink are finally nearing an end.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The worst is behind us,'' said Lehman's chief, Richard Fuld.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C7) CHART: S&P INVESTMENT BANKS Chart shows a line graph (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); COMMON STOCK (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); PREFERRED STOCK (70%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (60%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (54%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (79%); RICHARD S FULD (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



494 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: How Obama Fell To Earth

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Back in Iowa, Barack Obama promised to be something new -- an unconventional leader who would confront unpleasant truths, embrace novel policies and unify the country. If he had knocked Hillary Clinton out in New Hampshire and entered general-election mode early, this enormously thoughtful man would have become that. 
 But he did not knock her out, and the aura around Obama has changed. Furiously courting Democratic primary voters and apparently exhausted, Obama has emerged as a more conventional politician and a more orthodox liberal. 
 He sprinkled his debate performance Wednesday night with the sorts of fibs, evasions and hypocrisies that are the stuff of conventional politics. He claimed falsely that his handwriting wasn't on a questionnaire about gun control. He claimed that he had never attacked Clinton for her exaggerations about the Tuzla airport, though his campaign was all over it. Obama piously condemned the practice of lifting other candidates' words out of context, but he has been doing exactly the same thing to John McCain, especially over his 100 years in Iraq comment.
 Obama also made a pair of grand and cynical promises that are the sign of someone who is thinking more about campaigning than governing. 
 He made a sweeping read-my-lips pledge never to raise taxes on anybody making less than $200,000 to $250,000 a year. That will make it impossible to address entitlement reform any time in an Obama presidency. It will also make it much harder to afford the vast array of middle-class tax breaks, health care reforms and energy policy Manhattan Projects that he promises to deliver. 
 Then he made an iron vow to get American troops out of Iraq within 16 months. Neither Obama nor anyone else has any clue what the conditions will be like when the next president takes office. He could have responsibly said that he aims to bring the troops home but will make a judgment at the time. Instead, he rigidly locked himself into a policy that will not be fully implemented for another three years. 
 If Obama is elected, he will either go back on this pledge -- in which case he would destroy his credibility -- or he will risk genocide in the region and a viciously polarizing political war at home. 
 Then there are the cultural issues. Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos of ABC News are taking a lot of heat for spending so much time asking about Jeremiah Wright and the ''bitter'' comments. But the fact is that voters want a president who basically shares their values and life experiences. Fairly or not, they look at symbols like Michael Dukakis in a tank, John Kerry's windsurfing or John Edwards's haircut as clues about shared values.
 When Obama began this ride, he seemed like a transcendent figure who could understand a wide variety of life experiences. But over the past months, things have happened that make him seem more like my old neighbors in Hyde Park in Chicago.
 Some of us love Hyde Park for its diversity and quirkiness, as there are those who love Cambridge and Berkeley. But it is among the more academic and liberal places around. When Obama goes to a church infused with James Cone-style liberation theology, when he makes ill-informed comments about working-class voters, when he bowls a 37 for crying out loud, voters are going to wonder if he's one of them. Obama has to address those doubts, and he has done so poorly up to now. 
 It was inevitable that the period of ''Yes We Can!'' deification would come to an end. It was not inevitable that Obama would now look so vulnerable. He'll win the nomination, but in a matchup against John McCain, he is behind in Florida, Missouri and Ohio, and merely tied in must-win states like Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. A generic Democrat now beats a generic Republican by 13 points, but Obama is trailing his own party. One in five Democrats say they would vote for McCain over Obama.
 General election voters are different from primary voters. Among them, Obama is lagging among seniors and men. Instead of winning over white high school-educated voters who are tired of Bush and conventional politics, he does worse than previous nominees. John Judis and Ruy Teixeira have estimated a Democrat has to win 45 percent of such voters to take the White House. I've asked several of the most skillful Democratic politicians over the past few weeks, and they all think that's going to be hard.
 A few months ago, Obama was riding his talents. Clinton has ground him down, and we are now facing an interesting phenomenon. Republicans have long assumed they would lose because of the economy and the sad state of their party. Now, Democrats are deeply worried their nominee will lose in November. 
 Welcome to 2008. Everybody's miserable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%); GUN CONTROL (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (77%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



495 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: As HUD Chief Quits, a Look At Close Ties

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Rachel L. Swarns reported from Hilton Head, S.C., a week ago and did additional reporting afterward from Washington. Barclay Walsh and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

DATELINE: HILTON HEAD, S.C. 

 BODY:
Most of the time, the prominent men hovered in different orbits and different cities. Yet for years now, their lives have converged here on this resort island of white beaches and rippling sea.
 There was William Hairston, a local builder whose wife is active in Republican circles here. There was Michael R. Hollis, an Atlanta lawyer, entrepreneur and presidential history buff who vacations here.
 And there was President Bush's housing secretary, Alphonso R. Jackson, who golfed and socialized here and led the federal agency that gave hundreds of thousands of dollars in business to friends and acquaintances, including Mr. Hairston and Mr. Hollis. 
 One such friend, an Atlanta developer, received a $127 million contract last year as part of a joint venture to rebuild a New Orleans public housing project. That developer's company has paid Mr. Jackson more than $250,000 in fees since Mr. Jackson joined the Bush administration in 2001, for work done before Mr. Jackson joined government, the developer's lawyer said. 
 Mr. Jackson, who announced his resignation in March, leaves office on Friday as federal authorities continue to investigate whether he enriched himself and friends with lucrative contracts. The inquiry has also laid bare the connections between Mr. Jackson, who was determined to expand opportunities for minority contractors, and the ambitious men who benefited from those opportunities.
 It is the story of a small circle of black businessmen linked by their financial interests in the revitalization of troubled public housing and, in most cases, a shared affinity for conservative politics, and how those connections may have helped force the housing secretary from public life.
 In 2003, the year before Mr. Jackson was named secretary, 14 percent -- or $134 million -- of the Department of Housing and Urban Development's contracts went to black-owned firms, officials say. By 2007, black-owned businesses were receiving 25 percent of the department's contracts, or $195.6 million.
 Mr. Jackson has proudly promoted such statistics, saying that ''a good bottom line with small and minority businesses helps to build a stronger America.'' 
 Indeed, some of Mr. Jackson's supporters deride the scrutiny of his casual friendships as a racist effort to undermine a prominent black official and several respected black businessmen, noting that no one has been charged with a crime.
 Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House, said he believed the investigation was fueled by officials determined to derail Mr. Jackson's efforts to expand affirmative action.
 ''Is there something wrong with trying to make sure African-Americans participate in the contracting program with the American government?'' asked Mr. Clyburn, who vacations here regularly and knows Mr. Jackson, Mr. Hairston and Mr. Hollis.
 But over time, concerns have grown -- first among some housing officials and later among federal investigators -- as it became clear several men who interacted with and had business deals with Mr. Jackson became beneficiaries of his efforts to further integrate the contracting corps.
 Mr. Hairston, who golfed with Mr. Jackson here, received at least $610,000 in contracts from the New Orleans housing authority, which HUD took over in 2002, for reconstruction work on public housing complexes that were battered by Hurricane Katrina, officials say. (Mr. Hairston did not shy from talking up his personal ties to Mr. Jackson, according to housing officials who worked with him. And Mr. Jackson rebuked department employees who challenged Mr. Hairston's contracts and authority, the officials said.)
 Mr. Hollis, an acquaintance of the housing secretary, owns a law firm that was paid at least $1 million by HUD for running the Virgin Islands housing authority, government contracting records show. (Maynard H. Jackson Jr., the former mayor of Atlanta who died in 2003, introduced Mr. Hollis to Alphonso Jackson more than a decade ago.)
 The Atlanta developer, Noel Khalil, who occasionally dined with Mr. Jackson in Atlanta and in Washington, runs Columbia Residential, a development company that received the $127 million contract from the New Orleans housing authority last year as part of a joint venture hired to redevelop the St. Bernard housing project. 
 Mr. Khalil, who does not vacation on Hilton Head, hired Mr. Jackson as a partner in 1998 for development deals in Texas, before Mr. Jackson joined HUD as deputy secretary in 2001. (The two men met in 1994, also via an introduction from former Mayor Jackson, when Mr. Jackson was running the housing authority in Dallas.)
 From 2001 to 2007, Columbia Residential paid Mr. Jackson over $250,000 in developer fees on three housing complexes for work that he completed before he entered government, said Mr. Khalil's lawyer, Buddy Parker. 
 Mr. Jackson listed only one payment -- of $35,000 -- from Columbia Residential in the financial disclosure forms he filed for 2001 to 2006. Investigators have been looking into whether Mr. Jackson steered contracts to Mr. Khalil to ensure that Mr. Khalil could make those payments. 
 Mr. Jackson declined to comment on his ties to the three men, citing the ongoing investigation. Mr. Hairston did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
 Pressuring subordinates to award contracts to specific firms could be a crime, according to government officials briefed on the inquiry. The officials said investigators were also trying to determine if Mr. Jackson received payments in exchange for any help he gave friends. But the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said investigators had not found evidence of such an arrangement.
 Mr. Hollis and Mr. Khalil denied that they asked for or were offered any special treatment because they were friendly with Mr. Jackson. They say they believe federal investigators know that their contracts were legitimate.
 Mr. Parker said he had turned over documents and spoken with investigators. He said a Justice Department official told him that his client was considered a witness in the investigation.
 ''When you pay money that's clearly traceable to a sitting secretary of the cabinet,'' Mr. Parker said, ''it's not a shocking idea that you're going to be investigated.'' 
 ''But the fact is that he has nothing to hide,'' he said. ''I feel comfortable in saying that they've checked our facts out.''
 Mr. Hollis said federal investigators had not contacted him about his contracts to manage the Virgin Islands housing authority, which extended from February 2006 to May 2007. The authorities have subpoenaed records from Smith Real Estate Services, an Atlanta firm that retained him as a special adviser for a Virgin Islands contract with the department in 2004.
 Pamela Smith, president of Smith Real Estate Services, declined to comment. Her lawyer, Ralph Caccia, said she cooperated fully with the authorities.
 But Mr. Hollis said he had improved the troubled Virgin Islands housing authority, imposing financial accountability, rehabbing 300 public housing units, negotiating for efficient and cost-effective water service and removing hundreds of abandoned cars from the properties, among other steps.
 Carmen Valenti, a HUD official who oversaw Mr. Hollis's work, called him ''dedicated, very conscientious and really hard-working.'' Mr. Valenti said Mr. Hollis's contract required several approvals and was extended several times by HUD officials.
 ''I'm very proud of what we did,'' Mr. Hollis said. ''We pulled together a team that improved the housing conditions for nearly 15 percent of the people who live in the Virgin Islands, as well as the working conditions of nearly 300 public housing employees.'' 
 ''When our engagement started, V.I.H.A. was a highly troubled agency,'' he said, referring to the Virgin Islands agency. ''When our engagement was over, V.I.H.A. was a much stronger agency and poised for economic recovery.''
 Senior Democrats in Congress, who urged Mr. Jackson to resign, say the deals smell of cronyism. Mr. Parker said there was nothing nefarious in the fact that several of the businessmen were acquainted with each other. 
 ''There are a substantial number of successful African-Americans who know each other through business and politics,'' Mr. Parker said. ''That's how Noel Khalil knows Michael Hollis and Alphonso Jackson.''
 Some African-Americans here bristle at the notion that Mr. Jackson's casual friendships with the black professionals who flock to this resort town have become part of a federal investigation.
 ''You get an African-American in a position where he can help black folks, and people just don't like it,'' said Larry Holman, president of the Beaufort County Black Chamber of Commerce, who knows Mr. Jackson and Mr. Hairston.
 ''It's unfortunate,'' Mr. Holman said. ''We have a lot of respect for Secretary Jackson here.''
 Property records show that Mr. Jackson bought a house in an exclusive gated community here in 2004. Since then, local residents in this town of 33,000 people have watched his comings and goings with interest. 
 Mr. Jackson hobnobs with local businessmen, golfs, dines with friends and chats with neighbors who live alongside his vacation home, a cream-colored colonial with columns. He socialized with Mr. Hairston, who had been looking for work beyond South Carolina after his stucco business withered in the face of competition from Hispanic-owned companies here, according to people who know Mr. Hairston.
 And he would occasionally bump into Mr. Hollis at parties or gatherings hosted by mutual friends. 
 Clifford Bush, a local lawyer, said Mr. Jackson made a point of mingling with black businessmen, even stopping by an event organized by the county's black chamber of commerce. 
 As a prominent black conservative, Mr. Jackson certainly stood out. Mr. Hairston and Mr. Khalil also share an affinity for the Republican Party. Mr. Hairston's wife, Starletta, is running for a seat in the South Carolina House, on the Republican ticket. 
 Mr. Hollis said he still admired Mr. Jackson, despite the housing secretary's troubles, because he climbed out of poverty to become a lawyer and a member of President Bush's cabinet. ''He pulled himself up by his bootstraps,'' he said.
 Mr. Khalil said through his lawyer that he ''regrets the circumstances that Alphonso Jackson finds himself in.''
 As for Mr. Jackson, he is planning on ''a few months of rest and relaxation'' after stepping down from office, said a HUD spokesman, Stephen C. O'Halloran. 
 Mr. O'Halloran said Mr. Jackson planned to continue vacationing here in Hilton Head.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alphonso R. Jackson will leave his post as federal housing secretary on Friday under a cloud.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A22) CHART: The Housing Secretary's Scrutinized Contracts: Federal authorities are investigating whether Alphonso R. Jackson gave lucrative contracts to friends. Mr. Jackson has resigned as secretary of Housing and Urban Development, effective Friday. Chart details CONNECTION TO MR. JACKSON and CONTRACTS RECEIVED
 MAP: Mr. Jackson bought a house in Hilton Head, S.C., in 2004. (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BEACHES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); LAWYERS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); CITIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (62%); JOINT VENTURES (54%)

PERSON: ALPHONSO JACKSON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%); JAMES CLYBURN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



496 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Dear Gallery: It Was Fun, but I'm Moving Up

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
An overheated art market sets all kinds of things in motion. Big galleries with money to burn and multiple spaces to fill start circling smaller galleries, eyeing their most successful artists like the underdeveloped properties they sometimes are. Artists get itchy and think about moving up the gallery food chain. And boom or bust, even the friendliest, most mutually beneficial artist-dealer relationships can prove finite. They are outgrown or become stale. Suddenly, it's time to move on. 
 To interested onlookers, such parting of ways can be as unsettling as the sundering of a marriage of old friends. First you hear that the artist has left one gallery for another, or just left with no place to go, although new attachments often pop up suddenly. The news may come like a bolt from the blue or after months of rumors, courtship and offers that can't be refused. The change may seen insane, or make perfect sense. The word sellout, however quaint these days, may be bruited about.
 Some months later you receive the announcement for the artist's first show under, well, new management, in a grander setting, with more lavish trimmings -- perhaps a catalog and a pricier price list. 
 That announcement is like an invitation to a second wedding. It's official; get used to it. Lots of people -- the spurned dealer, other artists, longtime intimates or admirers -- look on with mixed feelings while quietly parsing the event down to the last detail. They may wonder how ''the work'' looks in ''the space''; what degree of rebranding (for artist and dealer alike) is involved; and who is or is not on the guest list for the post-opening dinner. 
 This kind of show could be called the starting-over debut. Right now there are four notable new matches to be seen, ranging from grandiose to discreet. 
 Piotr Uklanski 
 After about a decade with the cutting-edge Gavin Brown's Enterprise, the Polish-born artist Piotr Uklanski is one of several artists to end up recently (surprise!) at Gagosian. The gallery has lately lured John Currin from Andrea Rosen; Mike Kelley from Metro Pictures; Tom Friedman from Feature; Takashi Murakami from Marianne Boesky; and Anselm Reyle, also from Mr. Brown. Mr. Uklanski, 39, a late-Conceptualist maverick doesn't quite fit the mold: he lacks a consistent product, but maybe he intends to step things up. That's the point of starting over; it often signals a new set of ambitions and values. His better-known works include his disco floor for Passerby, Mr. Brown's bar, which closed last month, on West 15th Street; ''The Nazis,'' a series of photographs (later published as a book) of often well-known actors playing soldiers of the Third Reich; and ''Summer Love,'' a Polish deconstruction of a spaghetti western.
 His starting-over debut is a blowout that takes full advantage of Gogo's big bucks and cavernous spaces. Given Mr. Uklanski's wily combination of seriousness and black humor, sincerity and cynicism, it also spoofs the starting-over form, as well as the often nationalistic hollowness of festival art. The show's title, ''Bialo-Czerwona,'' or ''White-Red'' (a colloquialism for the Polish flag, like ''red, white and blue'' in this country) is announced in huge white Styrofoam letters hanging on a vast expanse of red velvet curtains, evoking both old movie theaters and apparatchik pomp. 
 In a labyrinth of rooms the works move through the Communist, Roman Catholic and Modernist faiths: an immense eagle, also in Styrofoam; radiant clusters of foil-and-cardboard Christmas creches traditional to Poland; and an abstract flag in huge sheets of glass reverse-painted red and white. 
 Political struggle is commemorated in two photographs of the Solidarity logo spelled out on the docks at Gdansk by masses of men wearing white or red. In the final gallery a massive Solidarity fist in steel is surrounded by six impossibly shiny abstract paintings made of big, luscious pours of red and white resin. Morris Louis abstractions come to mind, but so does dripping blood, especially since these paintings are subtitled ''Warsaw Uprising '44.'' Mr. Uklanski's show announces his intention to be a player while also skewering the game, a kind of anti-Jeff Koons operating on a Koonsian scale. The final oddity is that Mr. Brown, the artist's former dealer and a maverick in his own right, has written an affectionate but cautionary essay for the catalog. 
 Alexander Ross
 The changeover is quieter and more organic for the abstract painter Alexander Ross, 47, who began his career at Feature (five shows between 1998 and 2005). Still, his starting-over debut is a double deal: a beautiful show of his green-on-green-on-blue cellularly inclined drawings at David Nolan in SoHo and strong, if transitional show of paintings and collages at Marianne Boesky in Chelsea. (Proving that these things work both ways, Ms. Boesky recently lost Lisa Yuskavage to David Zwirner and Takashi Murakami to Gagosian.)
 Mr. Ross's very subject is the organic. For years he has painted semiabstract plant forms, often working from models made of green clay. Paint handling that ranges from quietly expressionistic to topographic mapping eggs on the tensions between microscopic and monstrous; abstract and real; emotional and scientific. At Boesky, Mr. Ross takes new liberties with his work, making uncustomarily hairy collage-drawings from photographs of his clay models, and broadening his palette. The new colors include black, violet and especially a stark, electric orange that opens up and flattens strange interstices between the green blobs. There is often a Gummy Bear translucency, and the forms stretch into landscapes and stack into soft-edged space-age turrets. The subtext of Mr. Ross's show: Change is good.
 Tony Feher
 Like Gagosian, PaceWildenstein has the deep pockets and gallery acreage to absorb new artists almost effortlessly. This month it has gone public with two additions to its roster, which currently lists 51 artists. One is the sculptor Tony Feher, an ingenious converter of ordinary detritus who has exhibited with D'Amelio Terras since 1997. (According to both galleries they will share Mr. Feher, as a small show of his work at D'Amelio Terras affirms.) 
 Mr. Feher's 31 often scrappy little sculptures look surprisingly at home uptown in the Pace gallery's flagship space. Their formal economy, humor and wisdom echo the work of Pace familiars like Saul Steinberg, Joseph Cornell and Alexander Calder. 
 Mr. Feher, 52, is a poet but also an engineer of the everyday whose materials include marbles, plastic bags and straws, bottles and jars of all description, coat hangers and chair legs. Each work is a magic trick whose ultimate charm is its transparency: you see the visual beauty, then the specific genius of the structure and the natural laws exploited. One untitled work is simply an oval of little pieces of blue tape applied directly on the gallery's window.
 ''(Yellow in French)'' is a mobile made of wire hangers hooked together and bent slightly so that each grasps by the neck a clear plastic soda bottle half-filled with yellow liquid. The liquid defines absolute level amid the erratic lines and angles of the hangers and bottles; it also catches the light. Nearby ''(Victoria),'' a bedraggled loop of low wire garden fencing is decorated with a single bright red Veterans Day poppy. A soldier's grave, and the sadness it brought, is lightly and deftly but irrevocably conjured. Quietly, yet constantly questioning the nature of beauty and nature of art, Mr. Feher's work casts its own spell, even as itmakes you believe that you, too, might be able to think and fiddle similar castoffs into something equally delightful. Whether you could show and possibly sell it at Pace is another question. 
 Thomas Nozkowski
 The other Pace newcomer is an old hand: the abstract painter Thomas Nozkowski, 64, who showed at Max Protetch from 1990 to 2006. (No sharing here; there is not a whiff of Mr. Nozkowski on the Protetch Web site.) If a little too plentiful, Mr. Nozkowski's paintings at Pace attest to the durability of his particular brand of abstraction -- small, inventive, colorful in all sorts of unexpected ways. His achievement lies in erasing the division between geometric and organic form that was one of the bugaboos of early Modernism and then melding them with more than a hint of cartooning into a signature style unburdened by a signature motif. 
 Each painting feels like a new adventure in shape, space, color and suggested meaning, and a continual joke on Modernist seriousness that is also serious, most of all in its visual richness and telling surface variations. Constructivism is leavened with suggestions of children's blocks or worn Persian textile. A grid of colored squares waves like a flag. A mountain shape is unnaturally striped in bold blue red. A series of vivid black and red ellipses are extended into a pale pinkish shape that suggests a tree trunk with sawed-off limbs. Mr. Nozkowski has come a longer way than most artists to what some would term the art-gallery big time. Some of his earliest shows, starting in 1979, were at 55 Mercer, the artists-run cooperative that recently ended its 39-year-run in SoHo this year. If PaceWildenstein made him an offer he couldn't refuse, it was also one he richly deserves. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starting over, grandly, at Gagosian: fist of Solidarity by Piotr Uklanski.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GAGOSIAN GALLERY)(pg. E29)
Cellularly inclined: works by Alexander Ross in his Marianne Boesky debut.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIANNE BOESKY GALLERY, NEW YORK)
Tony Feher's dots of tape on a window at Pace's gallery on 57th Street.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PACEWILDENSTEIN AND D'AMELIO TERRAS, NEW YORK)
 At Pace's gallery in Chelsea: fluttering grid by Thomas Nozkowski. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PACEWILDENSTEIN, NEW YORK)(pg. E36) CHART: Like Starting Over: Here are the exhibitions reviewed in this article: TONY FEHER Through April 26 at Pace- Wildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 421-3292, pacewildenstein .com. THOMAS NOZKOWSKI Through May 3 at PaceWildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-7000, pacewildenstein.com. ALEXANDER ROSS Through Saturday at Marianne Boesky, 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9897, marianneboeskygallery.com. Through Saturday at David Nolan, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 925-6190, davidnolangallery.com. PIOTR UKLANSKI Through May 17 at Gagosian, 522 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ART DEALERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



497 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats Debate: Aren't There Better Questions?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Tense Debate, Clinton Employs Sharp Attacks'' (front page, April 17):
 With the stakes so high in the forthcoming Pennsylvania vote, I was hoping that the debate between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama would take the high road. 
 Instead, I was offered a nauseating series of questions about why Mr. Obama did not wear an American flag pin in his lapel, his association with a fiery minister who was critical of American policies and his use of the word ''bitter'' in describing unemployed voters' feelings about losing their jobs. 
 When the debate was over, I felt the need for a long, hot shower to cleanse myself of the dirt that had been exchanged.
 As a voter, I still feel the need for a true debate between the two candidates on their major positions to solve our nation's many problems rather than exchanges of insulting remarks about each other's character. 
 Cy Shain San Francisco, April 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Gail Collins (''Battle of the Baggage,'' column, April 17) writes that ''in the first half-hour of the 24th debate Wednesday night, the Democratic candidates for president tossed personal baggage back and forth like a tennis ball.'' 
 That was a half-hour when major issues weren't discussed.
 This was not the fault of the candidates, but of their interrogators, who demanded answers only to questions about character. 
 I was left disgusted with the moderators, Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. It was irresponsible of them to waste the opportunity to clarify for the American people the views of the candidates on matters of importance. 
 Margaret Grubbs Newtown, Pa., April 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After watching the first 45 minutes of the Philadelphia debate between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, I was disgusted -- not with the candidates' responses, but with the questions from Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. 
 For 45 minutes, every question was a perfect illustration of what has been characterized as ''gotcha journalism.'' It was all about campaign misstatements and attempts to catch one candidate or the other in some very indirect association with someone who said or did something bad -- in one case, from 40 years ago.
 This disgraceful display comes at a time when American citizens are deeply worried about the state of the economy, obtaining health care, the war in Iraq and the staggering costs of it, the environment and so on. Instead, we got 45 minutes of that nonsense. 
 The attempt to characterize Mr. Obama as out of touch with regular folks is ridiculous. But the conduct by those TV news guys sure makes them look as if they are out of touch. It certainly is dysfunctional for our democracy. 
 I teach a college course on the news media and American politics. I'll use this debate as an example of what is wrong with American journalism -- at precisely the time we need good journalism the most. 
 Dean Alger St. Paul, April 17, 2008 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



498 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Google Defies the Economy And Reports a Profit Surge

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The American economy may be weakening, but Google said once again that the slowdown has not affected its business. 
 Easing concerns that its growth would stall, the Internet search giant on Thursday reported better-than-expected financial results for the first three months of the year, igniting a huge rally in its shares. 
 ''We are obviously very pleased with another strong quarter for Google,'' Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said during a conference call with Wall Street analysts. ''It is clear to us that we are well positioned for 2008 and beyond, regardless of the business environment that we find ourselves surrounded by.'' 
 Mr. Schmidt credited improvements to the company's highly targeted advertising business for the growth, which was stronger overseas than domestically. For the first time, international sales accounted for the majority of revenue. 
 The results came as a relief to investors, who were bracing for a big slowdown in Google's business. The company issued its report after the close of markets, and its shares surged more than $76.42, or 17 percent, in after-hours trading, to end the day at $525.96. They had closed down $5.49, to $449.54, in regular trading.
 Still, Google's performance is not likely to ease anxiety among investors about the overall health of the online advertising business. The company relies almost exclusively on short text ads that appear next to search results and on other Web sites. Analysts say that because those ads are more targeted and are used by marketers to drive traffic to their sites, they are more impervious to a slowdown than banners and other graphical ads, which are intended to increase brand awareness. Yahoo, the leader in the sale of display ads, reports financial results on Tuesday.
 Some analysts noted that Google's growth did slow from the previous quarter and said the results did not completely dispel concerns about the health of Google's business in the United States. 
 ''The international piece was solid,'' said Ross Sandler, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''That is where most of the upside came from. Despite the comments that they are seeing no impact from the economy whatsoever, I think the growth rate in the U.S. deserves more attention.'' 
 Mr. Sandler noted that Google's business in the United States had grown little from the last quarter of 2007 through the first quarter of 2008. 
 Google, based in Mountain View, Calif., said net income grew 30 percent, to $1.31 billion, or $4.12 a share, compared with $1 billion, or $3.18 a share, in the first quarter of 2007. Revenue climbed 42 percent, to $5.19 billion, from $3.66 billion a year earlier. 
 Excluding commissions paid to advertising partners, a widely followed measure, Google's revenue was $3.7 billion, slightly higher than analysts expected. Its profit, excluding the cost of stock options, was $4.84 a share, handily beating forecasts. 
 On average, Wall Street analysts were expecting Google to report revenue, excluding commissions to advertising partners, of $3.61 billion and income, excluding the cost of stock options, of $4.52 a share. 
 Analysts and investors have obsessed in recent weeks over Google's paid clicks, or the number of times users clicked on its ads. The concerns were heightened by various reports from comScore, the Web audience measuring firm, indicating that paid clicks declined sharply. The numbers are important because Google typically charges advertisers only when someone clicks on their ads.
 Google said paid clicks in the first quarter were up 20 percent from a year ago. That was lower than the 30 percent growth rate in paid clicks in the fourth quarter, but better than many investors had predicted. Overall revenue growth was also down from last quarter's rate of 51 percent. 
 During the call with analysts, Google executives said that the decline in growth of paid clicks was partly self-inflicted, as the company took several initiatives to improve the quality and relevancy of ads and to reduce accidental clicks.
 Mr. Schmidt said that as a result, Google was showing fewer ads, but those ads were more useful to users and to advertisers, leading to higher prices per click. ''The domestic numbers are showing a material slowdown,'' said Youssef H. Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. ''It is clearly a result of Google doing housecleaning, but we don't know how much of the slowdown is due to the housecleaning.''
 During the call, Mr. Schmidt was asked about the possibility that Yahoo would outsource its search advertising business to Google, as part of Yahoo's effort to fend off Microsoft's takeover offer. Last week, the two companies announced a limited test in which Google would place ads on about 3 percent of Yahoo's search results in the United States. 
 ''It is nice to be working with Yahoo, and we like them very much,'' he said, declining to comment further.
 Google said that DoubleClick, which it acquired in mid-March, had little impact on the company's finances this quarter. Executives said they were working on integrating the two companies' products. They said the integration would help growth in Google's nascent display advertising business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BRANDING (69%); AWARENESS MARKETING (69%); BRAND EQUITY (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



499 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Who Lost the Debate? Moderators, Many Say

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG; Julie Bosman and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos, the moderators of Wednesday night's presidential debate on ABC, became the subject of a fierce and somewhat unexpected debate themselves on Thursday, as viewers, bloggers and television critics lamented what they described as an opportunity lost: a chance to ask the two candidates for the Democratic nomination substantive questions early and often.
 The media post-mortem -- which boiled over in more than 17,600 comments posted on the ABC Web site alone -- also touched on questions that had long been simmering in the protracted Democratic campaign over the role of moderators in televised debates, to say nothing of political journalists generally. 
 If there was a common theme, it was that Mr. Gibson and Mr. Stephanopoulos had front-loaded the debate with questions that many viewers said they considered irrelevant when measured against the faltering economy or the Iraq war, like why Senator Barack Obama did not wear an American flag pin on his lapel. Others rapped the journalists for dwelling on matters that had been picked over for weeks, like the incendiary comments of Mr. Obama's former pastor, or Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's assertion that she had to duck sniper fire in Bosnia more than a decade ago.
 Only after half of the 90-minute debate had been concluded did the moderators turn to questions concerning Iraq, Iran, the housing crisis and affirmative action.
 The criticism -- echoed in columns in The Washington Post and The Philadelphia Daily News, as well as on Web sites like Politico -- was picked up on Thursday by Mr. Obama himself.
 ''We set a new record because it took us 45 minutes before we even started talking about a single issue that matters to the American people,'' Mr. Obama told an audience of nearly 2,000 in Raleigh, N.C., many of whom applauded. Reached by phone on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Stephanopoulos, a former aide in the Clinton White House who hosts ''This Week'' on ABC, sounded somewhat taken aback.
 ''We thought it made sense to deal with the core controversies,'' he said, by way of explaining those early questions. All of them, he said, went to ''what has become the No. 1 issue between the candidates -- who can win in November?''
 Ultimately, he said, ''the debate covered a lot of ground.''
 But Mr. Stephanopoulos said that after digesting much of what had been sent forth in the blogosphere on Thursday morning, he would have approached one critical aspect of his job differently. ''I could imagine moving up some of the questions,'' he said. ''You can differ over that.'''
 In a press release early Thursday afternoon, ABC trumpeted the debate's viewership: an estimated 10.7 million, according to figures from Nielsen Media Research, the most that had seen any debate concerning the 2008 election. The online anger aimed at Mr. Stephanopoulos and Mr. Gibson, some of it admittedly partisan, was reminiscent of the furor directed at Tim Russert of NBC News for what was perceived as his disproportionately tough questioning of Mrs. Clinton at the last Democratic debate, in Cleveland in February. Among the questions Mr. Russert had asked Mrs. Clinton, but not Mr. Obama, was to provide the name of the new Russian leader.
 But the outcry on Thursday was on a much larger scale, reflecting, at least in part, broader frustration with the news media as a whole.
 ''Congratulations for taking journalism to a new low (who even knew that was still possible),'' said one person who posted to the ABC News Web site, and identified himself or herself as a college professor who had assigned the debate as homework. ''I almost felt like I needed to apologize for suggesting that they watch the debate, but instead we used your sorry display as a way of talking about how the media covers politics today.''
 Ken Bode, a former correspondent for NBC and CNN who moderated a Democratic primary debate in 1992 in South Dakota, said in an interview that Mr. Gibson and Mr. Stephanopoulos had erred by ''churning up the old and the trivial of the last six weeks'' during the debate's extended opening. ''I would say hit the issues first,'' Mr. Bode said.
 David Bohrman, who oversees all of the political coverage at CNN, took particular issue with the lapel-flag question, which was posed to Mr. Obama by a voter appearing on tape. Mr. Bohrman said he would have instead had the moderators ask each candidate about their stance on a possible amendment to the Constitution banning flag-burning. ''That's a legitimate flag question,'' Mr. Bohrman said. ''I think the voters are expecting more from us.''
 Still, there were plenty of commentators who said Thursday that Mr. Gibson and Mr. Stephanopoulos had acquitted themselves nicely in their roles as moderators. Former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, whose name was invoked in Mr. Gibson's first question, over whether Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama would each commit to pick the loser as a vice-presidential nominee, said, ''I'm certainly not going to criticize them for the subjects they selected, when everyone has been selecting those subjects for weeks and weeks.''
 Don Hewitt, the director and producer of the Kennedy-Nixon debate of 1960, said ABC's structuring of the questions was an acknowledgment that a debate entails ''a big dose of show biz'' and ''trying to keep an audience.''
 ''When you're in television,'' Mr. Hewitt said, ''that's your job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (77%); IRAQ WAR (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



500 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Clinging to a Stereotype

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Will Barack Obama's now famous ''bitter'' quote turn out to have been a big deal politically? Frankly, I have no idea.
 But here's a different question: was Mr. Obama right?
 Mr. Obama's comments combined assertions about economics, sociology and voting behavior. In each case, his assertion was mostly if not entirely wrong.
 Start with the economics. Mr. Obama: ''You go into these small towns in Pennsylvania and, like a lot of small towns in the Midwest, the jobs have been gone now for 25 years and nothing's replaced them. And they fell through the Clinton administration, and the Bush administration.'' 
 There are, indeed, towns where the mill closed during the 1980s and nothing has replaced it. But the suggestion that the American heartland suffered equally during the Clinton and Bush years is deeply misleading. 
 In fact, the Clinton years were very good for working Americans in the Midwest, where real median household income soared before crashing after 2000. (You can see the numbers at my blog, krugman.blogs.nytimes.com.) 
 We can argue about how much credit Bill Clinton deserves for that boom. But if I were a Democratic Party elder, I'd urge Mr. Obama to stop blurring the distinction between Clinton-era prosperity and Bush-era economic distress.
 Next, the sociology: ''And it's not surprising then that they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy toward people who aren't like them.''
 The crucial word here isn't ''bitter,'' it's ''cling.'' Does economic hardship drive people to seek solace in firearms, God and xenophobia?
 It's true that people in poor states are more likely to attend church regularly than residents of rich states. This might seem to indicate that faith is indeed a response to economic adversity.
 But this result largely reflects the fact that southern states are both church-going and poor; some poor states outside the South, like Maine and Montana, are actually less religious than Connecticut. Furthermore, within poor states, people with low incomes are actually less likely to attend church than those with high incomes. (The correlation runs the opposite way in rich states.)
 Over all, none of this suggests that people turn to God out of economic frustration.
 Finally, Mr. Obama, in later clarifying remarks, declared that the people he's talking about ''don't vote on economic issues,'' and are motivated instead by things like guns and gay marriage. 
 That's a political theory made famous by Thomas Frank's ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' According to this theory, ''values'' issues lead working-class Americans to act against their own interests by voting Republican. Mr. Obama seemed to suggest that's also why they support Hillary Clinton.
 I was impressed by Mr. Frank's book when it came out. But my Princeton colleague Larry Bartels, who had an Op-Ed in The Times on Thursday, convinced me that Mr. Frank was mostly wrong. 
 In his Op-Ed, Mr. Bartels cited data showing that small-town, working-class Americans are actually less likely than affluent metropolitan residents to vote on the basis of religion and social values. Nor have working-class voters trended Republican over time; on the contrary, Democrats do better with these voters now than they did in the 1960s. 
 It's true that Americans who attend church regularly are more likely to vote Republican. But contrary to the stereotype, this relationship is weak at low incomes but strong among high-income voters. That is, to the extent that religion helps the G.O.P., it's not by convincing the working class to vote against its own interests, but by producing supermajorities among the evangelical affluent.
 So why have Republicans won so many elections? In his book, ''Unequal Democracy,'' Mr. Bartels shows that ''the shift of the Solid South from Democratic to Republican control in the wake of the civil rights movement'' explains all -- literally all -- of the Republican success story.
 Does it matter that Mr. Obama has embraced an incorrect theory about what motivates working-class voters? His campaign certainly hasn't been based on Mr. Frank's book, which calls for a renewed focus on economic issues as a way to win back the working class. 
 Indeed, the book concludes with a blistering attack on Democrats who cater to ''affluent, white-collar professionals who are liberal on social issues'' while ''dropping the class language that once distinguished them sharply from Republicans.'' Doesn't this sound a bit like the Obama campaign?
 Anyway, the important point is that working-class Americans do vote on economic issues -- and can be swayed by a politician who offers real answers to their problems.
 And one more thing: let's hope that once Mr. Obama is no longer running against someone named Clinton, he'll stop denigrating the very good economic record of the only Democratic administration most Americans remember. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



501 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Superdelegates Unswayed by Clinton's Attacks

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Jeff Zeleny, George A. Sargia and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Throughout their contentious debate on Wednesday, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton tried again and again to put Senator Barack Obama on the defensive in a pointed attempt, her advisers say, to raise doubts about his electability among a small but powerful audience: the uncommitted superdelegates who will most likely determine the nomination.
 Yet despite giving it her best shot in what might have been their final debate, interviews on Thursday with a cross-section of these superdelegates -- members of Congress, elected officials and party leaders -- showed that none had been persuaded much by her attacks on Mr. Obama's strength as a potential Democratic nominee, his recent gaffes and his relationships with his former pastor and with a onetime member of the Weather Underground.
 In fact, the Obama campaign announced endorsements from two more superdelegates on Thursday, after rolling out three on Wednesday and two others since late last week in what appeared to be a carefully orchestrated show of strength before Tuesday's Pennsylvania primary. Obama advisers said that one of the pickups on Thursday, Councilman Harry Thomas Jr. of the District of Columbia, had initially favored Mrs. Clinton, but Clinton advisers denied that, and a Thomas aide said he had been neutral before Thursday. 
 In interviews, 15 uncommitted superdelegates said they did not believe that recent gaffes by both candidates would carry any particular influence over their final decision. They said they had particularly tired of all the attention, by the Clinton campaign and the news media, on Mr. Obama's recent comment that some Americans were ''bitter'' over the economy and chose to ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them'' as a result.
 And if there were some moments of concern reflected in the debate -- the talk of Mrs. Clinton's high unfavorability ratings, Mr. Obama's flashes of annoyance -- they all doubted that those moments would be deal-breakers, either. Instead, most of the superdelegates said they wanted to wait for the results of at least the next major primaries -- in Pennsylvania on Tuesday and Indiana and North Carolina two weeks later -- before choosing a candidate.
 ''I feel like we've heard a lot about gaffes as they relate to electability, but what really matters to people is how to deal with the economy and create jobs,'' said John W. Olsen, an uncommitted superdelegate from Connecticut and president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. there. ''I also want to wait and hear from all of the Democrats in the primaries and caucuses who haven't had a chance to choose and vote yet.''
 Clinton advisers acknowledged that they had not seen short-term evidence that their attacks on Mr. Obama were winning over many superdelegates, and they acknowledged that he had picked up more in recent weeks -- though she maintained a narrowing overall lead in them. They predicted, however, that the mounting scrutiny of Mr. Obama would lead superdelegates to cool to his candidacy and come to see her as more of a known quantity, battle tested, and shrewd about the best ways to beat the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, in the fall.
 ''When it comes to picking a candidate, automatic delegates don't want to guess about what lies behind Door No. 2, they want to know,'' said Phil Singer, a Clinton spokesman. ''The debate raised more questions about Senator Obama than have been answered, and that means that automatic delegates are likely to keep their powder dry as the process moves forward.'' 
 In response, an Obama spokesman, Hari Sevugan, said Thursday: ''Since Feb. 5, Senator Obama has garnered the support of 80 superdelegates to Senator Clinton's 5. We'll let the results of Senator Clinton's 'kitchen sink' strategy speak for themselves.''
 Some Clinton advisers also said that the focus on Mr. Obama's ''guns or religion'' comment was a way to put him on the spot with so-called values voters -- in part to offset Mrs. Clinton's baggage in this area. According to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted March 28-April 2 with 1,196 registered voters nationwide, 60 percent of them believe Mrs. Clinton shared the values that most Americans tried to live by, and 34 percent did not. Both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain fared better, with Mr. Obama performing best -- 70 percent said he shared those values, and 21 percent said he did not.
 Some of the uncommitted superdelegates interviewed said they were concerned about whether Mr. Obama reflected the values and interests of voters in states that Democrats aim to carry in November or hope to steal from Republicans, like some Southern states that they typically do not win in a general election. Yet they said they had had these concerns for some time -- and Wednesday night's debate had not intensified them. 
 ''Obama argues that he will put more states in play, but I haven't seen him put the coalitions together as strongly as we need to,'' said Joe Turnham, an uncommitted superdelegate who is chairman of the AlabamaDemocratic Party. (Mr. Obama won the Alabama primary in February; Mr. Turnham has known the Clintons for many years.)
 ''You have to put together blue-collar workers, veterans, seniors and swing evangelical voters and compete in states like West Virginia, Kentucky, Arkansas, Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania,'' he added. ''I feel like Hillary has shown more strength there.''
 Mr. Obama sought to allay concerns about questions of his electability on Thursday. At a campaign stop in Raleigh, N.C., a woman told Mr. Obama that he was ''really pummeled during the debate.'' She continued, ''What is your strategy to beat the Republicans in November?''
 ''That was the rollout of the Republican campaign against me in November. It happened just a little bit early, but that is what they will do,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They will try to focus on all these issues that don't have anything to do with how you are paying your bills at the end of the month. There's no doubt that I will have to respond sharply and crisply, then pivot to talk about what exactly are we going to do for the economy and what are we going to do about the war in Iraq.''
 Until the nominating fight ends, Mr. Obama said, he is ''trying to show some restraint.'' He added, ''I won't have as much restraint with the Republicans.''
 Supporters of Mr. Obama have expressed concern about the bitter ferocity of the Democratic race, particularly with Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain sounding similar themes of criticism against Mr. Obama. They used Wednesday's debate as the latest example to superdelegates that the prolonged nominating fight could be damaging to the party.
 ''And I have to say Senator Clinton looked in her element,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking to an audience of North Carolina voters. ''She was taking every opportunity to get a dig in there. You know, that's all right. That's her right. That's her right to kind of twist the knife a little bit.''
 Indeed, several superdelegates said they had been put off by negative moments in the debate.
 ''What I'm hearing from voters in this state who have been uncommitted or not solidly behind any candidate is that they are increasingly frustrated with the negativism going on, mostly on her side,'' said Patricia Waak, the Colorado state party chairwoman. (Mr. Obama won the Colorado primary in a landslide.) 
 ''In general what I heard this morning was just negative, negative, negative,'' Ms. Waak said. ''As far as Obama's comment on guns and religion, mostly what I've heard from people in general is, 'it's true.' ''
 One superdelegate, Reggie Whitten of Oklahoma, endorsed Mr. Obama on Tuesday because, he said, he believed the candidate needed a new public vote as the Clinton camp was battering him daily over the bitter remark.
 ''I don't think all of this divisiveness is helping him, so it was a good time to send a signal of support from a conservative state like Oklahoma that we believe in him,'' said Mr. Whitten, a lawyer from a suburb of Oklahoma City.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Democratic superdelegates who said in a survey that they were unswayed by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's attacks on Senator Barack Obama in Wednesday's Democratic debate in Philadelphia referred incorrectly to the nominating contest in Colorado won by Mr. Obama. It was a caucus, not a primary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Stephanopoulos, left, and Charles Gibson, the moderators, wrapping up Wednesday's debate broadcast in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERDELEGATES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (75%); RELIGION (69%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



502 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Weighs Building First Nuclear Plant Since 1973

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine said on Thursday that New Jersey was considering building a nuclear power plant, the first in the United States since 1973, as part of an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the state. 
 The proposal, part of a 15-year energy master plan, does not specify a site, but a spokesman for Public Service Electric & Gas said the company was investigating the possibility of adding a fourth plant to its Lower Alloways Creek site in Salem County and expected to make a decision by the end of the year.
 The plan calls for reviewing sites, permits, financing and waste disposal involved in bringing another nuclear plant to the state and for studying other technologies that would cause only minimal or no carbon dioxide emissions.
 ''A business-as-usual energy policy risks enormous economic and environmental consequences,'' Mr. Corzine wrote in the plan. ''In contrast, an energy policy that focuses on producing and using energy as wisely as possible greatly reduces these consequences and positions us to be a strong competitor in the global economy.''
 The proposal would be the subject of public hearings, and the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission would have final approval.
 Last year Mr. Corzine signed legislation making New Jersey the third state to enact a comprehensive greenhouse gas reduction law. California and Hawaii have similar laws.
 The legislation requires the state to reduce global warming gases to 1990 levels by 2020 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 2006 levels by 2050.
 In addition to considering another nuclear plant, Mr. Corzine said he wanted to generate 20 percent of the state's electricity with renewable energy like wind and solar power.
 The master plan discusses ways to promote energy conservation, meet electricity demands, find methods to get electricity from renewable sources and invest in clean energy technologies and businesses.
 Lisa Jackson, the state environmental protection commissioner, said, ''Few initiatives will more significantly shape New Jersey's environmental future and positively affect generations to come than the work we're now doing to embrace and implement progressive clean-energy policies and programs.'' 
 Environmental groups were sharply critical of Mr. Corzine's 15-year energy plan.
 Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said the governor ''needs to step up and lead New Jersey to a cleaner, greener future with more wind, solar and better energy efficiency goals.''
 Dave Pringle of the New Jersey Environmental Federation said, ''The question is not coal versus nuclear to keep the lights on, but rather those antiquated, dangerous technologies versus cutting-edge clean renewable and efficient solutions.''
 As in most states, residents in New Jersey are struggling with rising fuel prices. The cost of electricity has also soared because the price of coal, gas and uranium is making power plants more expensive to operate.
 Another nuclear plant in New Jersey, the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station in Lacey Township, is waiting for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to grant a 20-year extension of its license.
 About 100 nuclear power plants are in operation in the United States, but an order has not been placed for a new reactor since 1973, six years before an accident at the Three Mile Island plant in Pennsylvania intensified opposition to nuclear power.

GRAPHIC: MAP: A nuclear plant may be added at Lower Alloways Creek. Map details area of Lower Alloways Creek. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); GOVERNORS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COAL PRICES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); COAL MARKETS (60%)

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (72%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); LISA P JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



503 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Inquiries Into Auction-Rate Securities Widen

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
State regulators are stepping up their inquiries into auction-rate securities and how Wall Street banks sold them to investors.
 The attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, has subpoenaed 18 banks that underwrote and brokered the investments, people with knowledge of the inquiry said on Thursday. Also, securities regulators from nine other states have formed a task force to look into the matter. 
 Auction-rate securities are long-term bonds that were often sold as short-term investments because investors had the option of selling them at periodic auctions held every week or month. Municipalities, student loan companies and closed-end funds have issued about $330 billion of these bonds.
 In February, many investors found they could no longer get out of the securities because hundreds of auctions failed when several big banks trying to conserve their capital stopped bidding in the auctions they were administering. 
 The regulators are looking at how banks disclosed the risks of auction failures to investors, mostly individuals and corporations.
 Mr. Cuomo's office is also exploring how the securities were marketed to municipalities and public entities like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which was forced to pay a ''penalty'' interest rate as high as 20 percent on some of its securities when the auctions first started failing in February.
 ''Every state is hearing these complaints,'' said Bryan J. Lantagne, the director of the Massachusetts Securities Division, which is leading the nine-state group that includes Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Texas and Washington. 
 Among the banks that have been subpoenaed by Mr. Cuomo's office are Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS, according to people with knowledge of the inquiry. Officials at the banks declined to comment on the inquiries. The nine-state inquiry has requested information from several banks, Mr. Lantagne said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STUDENT LOANS (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (90%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008



504 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Some See a Pause in the Fed's Rate-Cutting

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers, sensing renewed inflation dangers and an economic boost from government rebate checks, may be nearing a pause in interest-rate cuts after the fastest reductions in two decades. 
 In remarks this week, Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor; Janet L. Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed; and three other district bank presidents voiced concerns about rising prices. The Harvard University economist Martin Feldstein, who heads the group that decides the dates of recessions, called for an end to rate cuts.
 The central bank has already reduced rates three times this year, to 2.25 percent.
 ''We are close to the end of rate cuts,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital in New York, who added: ''The inflation pressures are only intensifying at this point.''
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and the Federal Open Market Committee next meet April 29-30 in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); SALES REBATES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); KEVIN WARSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



505 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Is Painting Small The Next Big Thing?

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Small may be beautiful, but where abstract painting is concerned, it is rarely fashionable. Big has held center stage at least since Jackson Pollock; the small abstractions of painters like Myron Stout, Forrest Bess and Steve Wheeler are mostly relegated to the wings, there to be considered eccentric or overly precious. Paul Klee was arguably the last genius of small abstraction to be granted full-fledged membership in the Modernist canon. 
 But what is marginalized can also become a form of dissent, a way to counter the prevailing arguments and sidestep their pitfalls. It is hard, for example, to work small and indulge in the mind-boggling degree of spectacle that afflicts so much art today. In a time of glut and waste on every front, compression and economy have undeniable appeal. And if a great work of art is one that is essential in all its parts, that has nothing superfluous or that can be subtracted, working small may improve the odds. 
 Small paintings of the abstract kind are having a moment right now in New York, with a luminous exhibition at the New Museum of Contemporary Art spotlighting the wry, fastidiously wrought work of the German painter Tomma Abts; and PaceWildenstein presenting in Chelsea the latest efforts of James Siena and Thomas Nozkowski, two older American whizzes at undersize abstraction. Even post-war Modernism could be downsized a bit, with a show titled ''Suitcase Paintings: Small Scale Abstract Expressionism'' opening next month at Baruch College.
 Four young painters who embrace smallness are now having solo shows -- three of them New York debuts -- that challenge the importance of the big canvas. 
 Small abstractions avoid the long realist tradition of painting as a window, and also the shorter, late-Modernist one of painting as a flat wall. Instead these smaller works align themselves with less vaunted (and sometimes less masculine) conventions: the printed page, illuminated manuscripts, icons and plaques.
 And yet, as each of these four exhibitions demonstrates, abstraction allows a serious exploration of process despite the limited real estate. This expands the already considerable pleasure of looking at paintings that are not much larger than your head. 
 Scott Olson
 The intently improvised geometries of Scott Olson's paintings, seen in his New York debut at Taxter & Spengemann in Chelsea, evoke manuscript illumination filtered through Constructivism and other abstract styles. His colors have a slightly watered-down, retroactive subtlety; frequently they are translucent, to reveal the complex decisions and elaborate processes packed into each work.
 Different physical supports (canvas, fiberboard, heavily gessoed wood) further complicate Mr. Olson's processes. In ''Untitled (N. 7)'' and ''Untitled (N. 32)'' taping and retaping have left shards of sharp color that stand out like little ruins against absorbent grays and blacks. In ''Untitled (N. 31)'' and ''Untitled (N. 8)'' the forms are laid on in thin glazes with fine, varied textures, creating echo chambers of form that suggest faceted jewels, flattened out.
 Mr. Olson clearly wants to make paintings whose smallness doesn't rule out finding something new each time you look. 
 Katy Moran
 The little paintings in Katy Moran's first New York show, at Andrea Rosen in Chelsea, plug into another tradition -- the plein-air oil sketch. But she turns her canvas, which always measures 15 by 18 inches, into a very tiny arena in which to act. Her spirited brush work creates a sense of gesture and movement that is almost comical, as if a Lilliputian artist of overweaning ambition were rushing about, dispensing profusions of feathery curls and slashing lines of paint.
 These marks frequently add up to little Rococo set-tos that imply rushing figures themselves -- scuffles and skirmishes between beings moving too fast to be identified. They may be humans (see the horizontal roll of ''Meeting in Love''), birds (the confrontation of ''Pecking Order'') or some other animal entirely (''Orton''). Or they may be nothing of the sort.
 The twin brown-on-mauve peaks of ''Hoopers Retreat'' suggest a cobbled-together shanty, with Hooper as the pink dot at its center. Sometimes hints of seascapes or still lifes emerge from the confusion. 
 Ms. Moran's colors, on the other hand, are reserved and shot through with light: a wide range of delicate grays, mauvish browns, yellowish tans and a variety of whites that keep the painting action distinct. Their goal seems to be to lend an air of dignity to the proceedings, but it is the tumult, hanging in the air, that prevails. 
 Matt Connors
 Colors brighten and geometry returns in ''Enjambment,'' Matt Connors's enticing show at the downtown gallery Canada, where his boxy compositions are constructed from planks or ribbons of contrasting hues.
 Mr. Connors's work can at times venture toward mid-size, at least relative to the other three artists. ''Third Wave Cubism (no touching),'' for example, measures 34 by 36 inches -- but it is an exception. As its title implies, Modernism is much on Mr. Connors's mind. The grid, the monochrome, the minimal, the concentric and the parallel are all given a nod, but also a wink. But when plentiful, his colors are festive and a little cheap-looking.
 There's a cheerful secondhandness here, a sense of vague appropriations and unnamed sources at work. And abstraction is considered as a kind of object. An untitled work floats a green-bordered black square on raw linen: it's not so much an abstract painting as a painting of one.
 And smallness doesn't rule out installation art. The motifs of ''Reading Room'' are actually painted on two different canvases, a smaller one leaning against a slightly larger one, both sitting on a narrow shelf built into the wall. Another work, whose dark veils evoke Color Field painting, hangs on a black rectangle painted directly on the wall.
 Michaela Eichwald
 Michaela Eichwald is from Cologne, Germany, where abstract painting has been in a fruitfully deviant mode for nearly two decades, thanks to artists like Jutta Koether, Michael Krebber and Kai Althoff. Ms. Eichwald's New York debut at Reena Spaulings Fine Art downtown is titled ''Ergriffenes Dasein: Artist Writer Mentalist.'' (The gallery's release translates the first phrase as ''Moved by Life.'')
 Ms. Eichwald's work continues the deviation but pushes it in a direction of her own choosing. There's a happenstance quality to both her paintings and the handful of small sculptures she is showing: they often incorporate found objects or images and exude an outsider air. Lacquer is frequent material, which means that the colors are rich and that the surfaces tend toward shiny, bringing to mind ceramic plaques or cloisonne. 
 Ms. Eichwald's imagery veers toward a playful, vaguely figurative expressionism. The mostly purple, crackled surface of ''N.Y.C.'' harbors a face with big turquoise teeth. It might almost be a plate by Picasso. Certain features -- like the brown blob touched with red in ''Struck'' or the capital A and calligraphylike tree of ''A-Abre,'' framed in pink, red and blue -- qualify as neo-Expressionism, but they add another layer of self-awareness by shrinking the style to a manageable size. It exemplifies one of the many joys of small. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Small as subversive: Above, ''Untitled (N. 32)'' by Scott Olson. Right, ''Struck'' by Michaela Eichwald.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAXTER & SPENGEMANN)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY REENA SPAULINGS FINE ART)
''Hoopers Retreat,'' one of the paintings in Katy Moran's show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA ROSEN GALLERY)(pg. B11) CHART: Where Less Can Be More: Here are the exhibitions reviewed: MATT CONNORS, through Sunday at Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, between Hester and Canal Streets, Lower East Side
(212) 925-4631, canadanewyork .com. MICHAELA EICHWALD, through April 27 at Reena Spaulings Fine Art, 165 East Broadway, at Rutgers Street, Lower East Side
(212) 477-5006, reenaspaulings.com. KATY MORAN, through Wednesday at Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea
(212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. SCOTT OLSON, through May 10 at Taxter & Spengemann, 504 West 22nd Street, Chelsea
 (212) 924-0212, taxterandspengemann.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



506 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese View of History, and Our Part in It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''China's Loyal Youth'' (Op-Ed, April 13):
 Matthew Forney's generalizations about pro-establishment nationalist young Chinese do not reflect my own experience teaching political theory to students in Beijing. 
 My students are often critical of their government, to the point that I sometimes need to introduce some ''pro-government'' views for balance. 
 From their parents, friends and the Internet, they are aware of their country's own painful history and do not need to be constantly reminded by Westerners. When they go abroad, they often come back more nationalistic, suggesting that the problem may not lie just with the ''indoctrination'' of the Chinese educational system. 
 Daniel A. Bell Beijing, April 14, 2008
 The writer, a professor of philosophy at Tsinghua University, is the author of a book about politics and everyday life in China.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Don't Know Much About Tibetan History,'' by Elliot Sperling (Op-Ed, April 13):
 As Mr. Sperling notes, Tibet became (de facto) independent in 1911 after the Manchu dynasty fell. But this independence was never accepted by either the Chinese governments that succeeded the Manchu or by Britain, India and the United States, the democracies with whom Tibet had the closest ties. 
 For political and economic self-interest, these democracies instead continued to accept Chinese suzerainty over Tibet. Consequently, when Mao Zedong sent his army to incorporate Tibet into the People's Republic of China in 1950, Britain, India and the United States not only did not assist Tibet, but also blocked Tibet's appeal for help to the United Nations. 
 Similarly, in 1959, when the Dalai Lama fled to exile in India after a failed revolt and declared Tibetan independence, Britain, India and the United States again continued to accept Tibet as part of China.
 Understanding Tibetan history requires an understanding of the key role that the United States and other democratic nations played in molding both sides' views and influencing their decisions. 
 Melvyn C. Goldstein Cleveland, April 14, 2008
 The writer, a professor of anthropology, is co-director, Center for Research on Tibet, Case Western Reserve University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (94%); TIBET (94%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



507 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Except at Gas Pump, Not Much Spending Going On

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
AMERICANS are cutting back on purchases of things they do not have to have, sending retail sales down sharply at many types of stores.
 Those cutbacks, which now seem to be worse than at any time since the 1990-91 recession, are helping to slow the economy and to spur calls in Washington for more fiscal stimulus even before the government starts to send out money to most taxpayers next month. 
 Those checks could provide at least a temporary stimulus, but until they arrive, the slowdown in spending appears to be nationwide.
 In its beige book report on economic conditions released this week, the Federal Reserve said that surveys by the 12 regional Federal Reserve banks found that ''consumer spending was characterized as softening across most of the country.''
 The Fed said that in 10 of the 12 districts, spending on things other than cars was down, while car sales were generally reported to be flat or declining.
 The strength in consumer sales, such as it was, was concentrated around Boston and New York, areas that, not coincidentally, attract many European tourists. With the dollar down sharply against the euro and the British pound, there are more foreign visitors and many of them find prices low compared with what they are used to back home.
 The Census Bureau reported a small increase in retail sales for March, with overall sales up 1.8 percent over the previous year. But much of that gain was caused by higher prices. Sales at gasoline stations soared almost 19 percent as prices climbed. In food and beverage stores, sales were up 4 percent from a year earlier.
 But spending more money on food and gasoline leaves less for other things, and sales were down, even without adjusting for inflation, at department stores, clothing stores and furniture stores, as well as at auto dealers.
 The accompanying chart adjusts sales for inflation, and looks only at the trends in retail sales other than at gasoline stations. The inflation adjustment is for all commodities -- that is, for the entire Consumer Price Index except for services. It may have been better to adjust using an index for commodities other than energy, but the government does not publish that.
 The latest figure shows that such sales fell 4.5 percent during the first three months of this year, compared with the same period of last year. That is the deepest decline since the 1990-91 recession.
 For shopkeepers, there is less business to go around these days.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Where the Sales Are, Where They Are Not: March retail sales in March 2008 compared with March 2007, not adjusted for inflation (Sources: Census Bureau
 Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) Chart details line graph for statistics from 1990-2008. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); GAS STATIONS (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (73%); FURNITURE STORES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); US DOLLAR (71%); CENSUS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EURO (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



508 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1166 words

PERSON: Lee Sang-mook 

HEADLINE: From a Wheelchair, a Scientist Pries Open South Korean Minds

BYLINE: By SU-HYUN LEE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
 HELD upright by straps in his wheelchair, clad in a dark suit, Lee Sang-mook was delivering a lecture on marine geophysics. On the projector screen behind him at Seoul National University were animated diagrams simulating the way the world's seas could have been formed.
 To display each scene, Dr. Lee, who is paralyzed from the neck down, used his mouth to operate a bottlelike computer mouse linked to his laptop: sip from the open tip of the mouse to click left. Puff out to click right. Sip and nod to scroll.
 ''Scrolling is the most difficult one,'' said Dr. Lee, who can talk, but whose lung capacity has shrunk to 40 percent of an average person's.
 Despite his paralysis, the result of an automobile accident two years ago, Dr. Lee, 46, remains resolutely focused on his work. In the process, he has become a model for disabled people in South Korea, where they still face prejudices and are expected to withdraw from active life. 
 In the South Korean news media he is frequently compared to another quadriplegic scientist, the British astrophysicist Stephen Hawking. Dr. Lee modestly discourages such talk, saying the similarities are superficial.
 Despite rapid economic and cultural development, South Korea still lacks social awareness of its disabled citizens and the facilities to aid them. Families with disabled members often keep them at home, sometimes hidden away, ashamed of their existence and afraid of discrimination. In fact, Dr. Lee's decision to continue teaching at the nation's most prestigious university has put him at odds with his wife and parents, who would prefer that he concentrate on restoring some motion to his limbs. 
 Dr. Lee was injured on July 2, 2006, during a geological field trip in a California desert, when the car he was driving overturned. He emerged from a coma three days later, but his fourth cervical vertebra had been fractured.
 Nevertheless, he was back at work in early 2007.
 Every time he tested out a new device and adapted it for his own use, Dr. Lee said, he felt a little thrill, as if he had solved a scientific problem.
 He felt blessed when he found EZcaller, a device that allowed him to make and answer phone calls just by clicking his mouse. And he eventually settled on an on-screen keyboard program called Clickey, which allowed him to type by selecting each character with a click or a puff.
 During a recent lunch with his colleagues, Dr. Lee amazed onlookers as he touched a microphone on the headrest of his wheelchair with his right cheek to recline the chair to prevent bedsores.
 On his way back to his office from the cafeteria, Dr. Lee used his right cheek again, this time to shift the wheelchair into a mode that buffers the shock when he uses his head to steer it on a bumpy road. 
 ''It's like downhill skiing,'' he said. 
 LEE SANG-MOOK was born in Seoul in 1962 and moved to Indonesia when he was 12, after his father, a banker, was transferred there. As a teenager, he became fascinated with National Geographic, devouring every issue of the magazine in the school library in Jakarta and stoking a desire to travel to remote places around the world.
 One day, he recalled, his father came home, somewhat tipsy after drinking with colleagues, and suggested that Sang-mook become a scientist of an unconventional kind. His father was convinced that oceanography was the field of the future. The son was so motivated by this first man-to-man talk with his father that he eventually went on to study oceanography at Seoul National University.
 His father later changed his mind and pressed him to become an herbal doctor, a position of considerable status in South Korea that would allow him to one day look after his aging parents or at least to stay close to them.
 ''But becoming an herbal doctor meant a locked-up life for him,'' said Lee Yu-jene, 45, Dr. Lee's younger sister. ''He refused relentlessly. It was the first time he defied our parents.''
 He went on to do his dissertation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. He conducted postdoctoral research on the midocean ridge south of Iceland and the southwestern Indian Ocean.
 He later spent about three months a year at sea on a research vessel for the Korean Ocean Research and Development Institute before joining his alma mater's faculty in 2003.
 None of his globe-hopping played well back home. His father took to calling him ''the sailor,'' annoyed that his oldest son was away from home for so long when his friends' children had settled jobs, Ms. Lee said.
 That changed when Dr. Lee accepted the teaching position. ''Our father was happy once my brother got his professorship,'' his sister said.
 But then came the accident, and the shattering new reality that he had lost the use of his limbs.
 The occupational therapists at the rehabilitation hospital in the United States immediately showed him seven models of a device that could serve as his computer mouse. He quickly got the hang of using one, so that he was discharged after only three weeks. 
 He returned to South Korea ready to go back to work, and armed with the means to do so. The university was enthusiastic about having him back, and made sure he had all the space and facilities he needed to do his work. A colleague donated $100,000, which he used to customize his minivan to accommodate his wheelchair and, with the remainder, to establish a scholarship.
 But his family had other ideas. 
 In the hope of activating his muscles again, ''they want me to give up my life and devote everything to recovery,'' Dr. Lee said. Not satisfied with Western medical treatments, his mother brought in an herbal doctor.
 But Dr. Lee shooed the herbal doctor away by reminding him that it is illegal to treat a patient without his consent.
 His Buddhist wife prayed.
 ''I asked her, 'Does praying make your limbs grow?' '' Dr. Lee said. 
 HIS parents had wanted Dr. Lee to stay in the United States after the injury, recalling that other disabled Koreans had moved there to escape prejudice in their homeland.
 So while Dr. Lee was becoming a media star and happily responding to requests to teach other people with disabilities how to use devices to assist them, his father -- who had always taught him not to stand out -- wanted his son to lead a quiet life.
 ''My father said, 'You are starting to become a messiah,' '' Dr. Lee said.
 But he was undeterred by the family pressures, determined, his sister said, ''to do everything that he used to be able to do anyway.''
 Last winter, Dr. Lee managed to go on a short business trip using a bullet train.
 ''When I picked him up from Seoul station, he was so excited and said, 'I think I can do this again,' '' his sister said. 
 But Dr. Lee is not satisfied with a local business trip. He wants to go to San Francisco in the fall to attend a conference of the American Geophysical Union.
 ''We all flock there,'' he said. ''And I have to keep myself up to date in my field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lee Sang-mook, a scientist who is paralyzed from the neck down, reclined in his special wheelchair.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARALYSIS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (76%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); FAMILY (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); OCEANS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (74%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



509 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
PROFIT UP AT HONEYWELL Honeywell International, the world's largest maker of airplane controls, posted a 22 percent gain in first-quarter earnings on Friday, beating analyst estimates, and said annual profit would be at the high end of its earlier range.
 Net income climbed to $643 million, or 85 cents a share, from $526 million, or 66 cents, a year earlier, the company, based in Morris Township, N.J., said. Sales rose 11 percent, to $8.9 billion, with two-thirds of the increase coming from outside the United States. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 
 SCHLUMBERGER MISSES MARK Schlumberger, the world's largest oil field services company, reported a nearly 14 percent rise in first-quarter income Friday, but results missed Wall Street forecasts and were seen as largely lackluster.
 Still, the company predicted growth for the remainder of the year as long as the global economy avoids a severe recession. The Houston-based company said income in the January-March period was $1.34 billion, or $1.09 a share, versus $1.18 billion, or 96 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Excluding discontinued operations, earnings amounted to $1.06 a share. Revenue rose to $6.29 billion from $5.46 billion. (AP) MORE INTEREST IN EXPRO The American oil field services company Halliburton said on Friday that it was considering a counterbid for the Expro International Group of Britain. Any offer would be in cash, it said, and at a premium to that made by the private equity firm Candover and Goldman Sachs.
 Expro, which is also an oil services company, has agreed to a bid of $:1.61 billion ($3.2 billion) from funds managed by Candover and Goldman Sachs. (REUTERS)
 BID FOR INSURER WITHDRAWN The American buyout group J. C. Flowers has formally withdrawn its $:3.5 billion ($7 billion) pursuit of the British life insurer Friends Provident, leaving the company to press ahead alone with a planned overhaul and asset sales.
 The private equity group, which owns 2.7 percent of Friends, had been widely expected to pull out on Friday, having failed to bring Friends' management to the negotiating table. (REUTERS)WENDY'S REJECTS 2 OFFERS Trian Partners, an investment company controlled by the billionaire Nelson Peltz, said in a regulatory filing Friday that Wendy's International had rejected two offers to be purchased, prompting it to seek a special shareholder meeting.
 Peter May, president of Trian, said it learned Thursday that Wendy's had rejected two offers: One a combination of Wendy's and Arby's, which Mr. Peltz owns through another company, and the other a cash offer of more than $900 million and stock. In its own regulatory filing Friday, Wendy's said it rejected both offers as inadequate. (AP) NO RAISE AT AMAZON.COM Despite a blockbuster year in which Amazon.com's profit more than doubled, compensation for its chief executive officer, Jeffrey P. Bezos, was unchanged from the previous year.
 Mr. Bezos, above, received a salary of $81,840 for 2007. His compensation also included $1.2 million for personal security and business travel -- the same amount as in 2006. He was not granted a bonus or awarded any stock or options. Amazon said Mr. Bezos, who founded the company and holds a 23.8 percent stake, has never received stock-based compensation. (AP) SEARS LOSES CREDIT PACTSears Holdings said on Friday that a credit agreement with Bank of America would come to an end after the bank would not agree to renew it under existing terms. Shares of Sears fell 3 percent in after-hours trading after it said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that the secured credit agreement would end in July.
 Sears said the termination of the agreement, a 364-day secured facility for a commitment of up to $1 billion, was not expected to have any effect on its liquidity. A Bank of America representative did not immediately return a call seeking comment. (REUTERS) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (63%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); EXPRO INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC (54%); JC FLOWERS & CO LLC (54%); FRIENDS PROVIDENT PLC (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



510 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Changes in the Catholic Church, Changes in Its Flock

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
The decades since the first papal visit to New
 York in 1965 by Paul VI have been fraught with
 changes in the church: Vatican II reforms brought
 more deacons and lay ministers into leadership
 roles as the ranks of priests, nuns and brothers
 have dwindled. Shifting populations of immigrants 
 and a general decline in attendance have led to
 new roles for parishes and the closing of many.
 Here are some vital statistics for two New York
 parishes.
 Church of the Holy Trinity 213 West 82nd Street, Manhattan Church of St. Augustine 1183 Franklin Avenue, the Bronx People and programs in 1965 Baptisms in 1965 and in 2007 Baptisms in 1965 and in 2007 and in 2007 People and programs in 1965 and in 2007 First Mass in French NUMBER OF BAPTISMS IN EACH YEAR NUMBER OF BAPTISMS IN EACH YEAR Homeless shelter opens '65 '70 '75 '80 '85 '90 '95 '00 '05 50 100 Installation of new organ Parochial school closes Half of the 126 baptisms were in families with Hispanic surnames. A handful of Germans and Italians with immigrant parents appears in the register, and about a dozen Irish, which were remnants of populations that lived in the area in the '40s. Hispanic names now number just 26 among the 109 in the baptism registry. There are 30 Irish surnames and 12 Italian. The 110-year old parish began in a largely German and Irish neighborhood. By the 1950s, the congregation swelled with Puerto Ricans, and in the 1960s, with Haitians. For the last two decades, the area has been gentrifying with wealthier whites. Median income in the area in 2000 was four times as much as in 1960, adjusted for inflation, and the church shows signs of vitality: an increase in baptisms, a new pipe organ, restored windows. It has a dozen 12-step program meetings a week, including Sex Addicts Anonymous and Debtors Anonymous. 4 Priests 5 Total Eucharistic ministers (0), lectors (0), lay teachers at the school (5) 3 Nuns 2 Priests 91 Total Eucharistic ministers (64), lectors (27), lay teachers (0) 0 Nuns Msgr. Thomas P. Leonard, left, and the Rev. Mizael Roa at Holy Trinity, with pipe organ. RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES Built on a promontory in the 1890s after a fire destroyed the original 1849 structure, the church, which is now crumbling, originally served a German and Italian neighborhood. It grew increasingly black and Hispanic after World War II and has become a focus for black Catholics in the Bronx. It was at the epicenter of the arson epidemic in the South Bronx more than 30 years ago, and the population of the area around it has dropped 60 percent since 1970. There are visible signs of economic recovery, but subprime mortgages were common in the neighborhood, and foreclosures may take a toll. The Church of St. Augustine 10 Sunday Masses in English, 1 Sunday Mass in Spanish, 0 popular music Masses, 272 students in parochial school 4 Sunday Masses in English, 1 Sunday Mass in Spanish, 1 popular music Mass (folk), 0 students in parochial school 4 Priests 10 Total Eucharistic ministers (0), lectors (0), lay teachers at the school (5), religious brothers (5) 50 Total Eucharistic ministers (20), lectors (20), lay teachers at the school (10), religious brothers (0) 9 Nuns 1 Priest 1 Nun 10 Sunday Masses in English, 1 Sunday Mass in Spanish, 0 popular music Masses, 600 children in parochial school 2 Sunday Masses in English, 1 Sunday Mass in Spanish, 1 popular music Mass (gospel), 248 children in parochial school Of the 298 people baptized in 1965, 151 were Hispanic. There are some Irish and German surnames that could be the legacy of the families that lived there in the '40s and '50s, but most of the families were black at that point, church officials say. Baptisms have increased from the low levels of the '90s, and 39 of 49 have Hispanic surnames. But the English Mass is still mostly black. Sanctuary renovated to reduce size Nationally renowned elementary, St. Augustine School for the Arts, closes, but parish school remains Archdiocese announces plan to raze the church and build a smaller one Arsons began in the South Bronx Christian Brothers leave parish school Gospel choir added Co-op City opens, a destination for many leaving the South Bronx 50 100 150 200 250 Shortage of nuns forces Sisters of Charity to withdraw from school '65 '70 '75 '80 '85 '90 '95 '00 '05

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Msgr. Thomas P. Leonard, left, and the Rev. Mizael Roa at Holy Trinity, with pipe organ.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Church of St. Augustine (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: People and programs in 1965
and in 2007
Baptisms in 1965
 and in 2007 Charts show bar graph statistics for years between 1965-2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); FAMILY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); FORECLOSURE (61%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); FIRES (60%); ARSON (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (53%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



511 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: When the Focus Is Expansion, Not Subprime Worries

BYLINE: By PATRICIA R. OLSEN

 BODY:
AS the news of late in the financial services industry has illustrated, longevity is not always a guarantee of viability. But ING, the American arm of the Amsterdam-based ING Group, whose roots date to more than a century ago, seems to have escaped the subprime woes that other financial services companies have experienced. American consumers may be more familiar with ING Direct, the online banking company, thanks to the orange ball bouncing through its television commercials. ING is also involved in insurance, asset management and retirement plans. 
 When ING acquired Aetna Financial Services in 2000, Thomas J. McInerney moved from Aetna to become chairman and chief executive of ING Americas. He recently discussed industry mergers, the company's promising acquisitions and how ING avoided the subprime mortgage pitfalls. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 
 Q. What has been your involvement in the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States? 
 A. We've had fairly limited exposure to the subprime crisis and the issues around it. For the fourth quarter of 2007, ING worldwide had total impairments (losses as well as reserves set aside) of 194 million euros. If you look at that in the context of what's been going on, it shows a relatively limited exposure. We are not an originator of subprime mortgages or a lot of the other instruments that have gotten companies into trouble. We invested in some residential-mortgage-backed securities, but our focus has been on the highly rated AAA and AA ones. 
 ING Group had 2.8 billion euros of residential-mortgage-backed securities collateralized by subprime mortgages at the end of 2007, which represented a modest part of the company's worldwide assets of 1.3 trillion euros. 
 Q.You're no stranger yourself to mergers. What lessons did you learn when ING bought Aetna and do you foresee more mergers in the industry?
 A. Merger and acquisition integrations can be challenging. It's important to start with good partners, have a well-thought-out plan for integration, and choose the best leadership talent from the entities coming together. It takes a good two or three years to get these integrations done.
 It will be more of a challenge for firms to acquire other companies because there are a number of players focused on striking their own balance sheet and raising capital. In the industry as a whole, there will probably be fewer acquisitions this year than in a more normal year. One of the advantages for ING is that we have additional capital of 9.5 billion euros, or $15 billion dollars, that we can use to invest in our business in organic growth as well as in niche, or bolt-on or add-on, acquisitions. 
 Q.Last year, ING Americas separated its insurance and retirement savings operations. What benefit are you hoping to realize?
 A. Realigning the two allows us to bring appropriate solutions to the wealth management and retirement savings markets. We're a leader in the 401(k) defined-contribution business. It's our biggest business in the U.S., accounting for over 60 percent of our overall revenue. By separating these two groups, it allows us to focus on that market. In addition, not only do people need assets in retirement, but they need them for much longer. Americans need to protect the financial assets that they have, so the core insurance business is a real opportunity for us as well. We've seen significant growth since separating the businesses.
 Q.What trend do you see in term and whole life insurance sales? Do consumers buy life insurance in tough economic times? Are they buying more of one type?
 A. We had record sales of term life insurance last year. Clearly, people are still looking to the basic death benefit to protect themselves and their family should something unexpectedly happen to them. Term life is an important part of any wealth-protection philosophy. In addition, as baby boomers look to transfer wealth, the more traditional life insurance products, like universal life or cash-value-oriented products, help people not only protect their wealth, they also help in estate planning. 
 Q.ING completed several acquisitions in Latin America this past January. What opportunities did they present?
 A. We see a tremendous opportunity in Latin America. We're now in seven countries there. Collectively, they have about 425 million people compared to 310 million in the U.S. Our focus there is on wealth management: investments, life insurance and retirement services. We acquired Banco Santander's pension and annuity businesses in five countries and doubled our assets under management. We're now the No. 2 pension fund manager in Latin America.
 Q.What other developing markets are you interested in?
 A. We want to be a top player in Asia in our core business. We're the No. 2 foreign player in life insurance there, and, if you exclude Japan, we're the No. 2 asset manager in Asia. But the Chinese market presents even more opportunity. We also have a strong interest in Central and Eastern Europe, where we're No. 1 in the life insurance and pension area.
 Q.How do you get through each day during this challenging period for the industry?
 A. ING has benefited from global diversification as well as diversification over four product segments. We've been prudent in risk management and are one of the few large global financial services firms that has a chief risk officer on our executive board. We have a strong balance sheet and feel well positioned to manage our portfolio. These are challenging times, and it's going to take some time to work the issues out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas J. McInerney 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (88%); EURO (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ACQUISITIONS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); INTERNET BANKING (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (57%); AETNA FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



512 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar's Profit Climbs on Strength Of Foreign Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The heavy equipment maker Caterpillar parlayed an increased reliance on international markets to surprisingly strong sales and a 13 percent jump in first-quarter profits, impressing investors who had expected the company to be slowed more by the weak American economy and dollar. 
 The stock surged more than 8 percent in Friday trading after company easily beat Wall Street's earnings estimates, benefiting from its strategy of diversification.
 Shares rose $6.69, to $85.28, in afternoon trading and are now up more than 40 percent since mid-January, to within $2 of their record high.
 Sales were up 37 percent in the Asia-Pacific region, 30 percent in the Europe-Africa-Middle East region and 24 percent in Latin America, compared with just 4 percent in North America.
 Caterpillar executives said the weak dollar hurt the bottom line, with raw materials and other costs up at its international plants. But in sales alone, the currency impact added $310 million in the quarter.
 Caterpillar earned $922 million, or $1.45 a share, in the January-March period, compared with $816 million, or $1.23 a share, a year earlier. That blew past the $1.33-a-share estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 Revenue rose 18 percent, to $11.8 billion, from $10.02 billion a year earlier, with $10.98 billion coming from machinery and engines sales and $817 million from financial products. A sales breakdown showed 58 percent came from outside North America, up from 53 percent a year earlier.
 The company lowered its expectations for the United States economy, pegging gross domestic product growth at 0.5 percent for 2008, down from 1 percent in January. But Caterpillar still expects 2008 earnings per share to rise 5 percent to 15 percent over 2007, and sales to improve 5 percent to 10 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



513 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PURSUITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Bartender, I'll Have a Lesson in What You Do

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III. 
E-mail: pursuits@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I SIDLED up to my station inside the New York Bartending School as Warp Brothers' ''Phatt Bass'' version of ''Confusion'' pulsated from the wall-mounted speakers. I knew at once that this was my kind of classroom. It had bordello red walls, and two black lacquered bars equipped with labeled bottles, shakers, strainers and other essential tools. A dozen other students, all of them under age 30, hunkered around stations like mine. 
 I grinned at my classmate Andrew Malone, a 25-year-old construction worker with a reddish brown goatee who was perched on a stool directly across from me. Although I was quite accustomed to being in bars, I typically occupied a customer's seat like Andrew's. I had heard countless bartenders proclaim that they had aspirations of becoming writers. I rejoiced in this long-awaited opportunity to reverse roles, for I was a writer in executive pursuit of becoming a bartender. 
 ''What can I do for you, sir?'' I asked. 
 Before Andrew could reply, our instructor, James Bumbery, sauntered over. Tall and lean with round horn-rimmed spectacles and a dark green beret, he was a cheerful but demanding taskmaster with over a decade of hospitality industry experience.
 ''The only rule in my class is you have to use both hands at the same time: everybody's got to be ambidextrous,'' James declared. ''Now make me two vodka tonics.''
 I filled two highball glasses with ice from the sink below the bar, and set them side by side on the rubber bar mat in front of me. I gripped the soda gun with my right hand. Then I grabbed a steel-spouted bottle labeled ''vodka'' with my left hand and started to pour the contents into the two glasses. I glanced up, and saw James shaking his head in disapproval.
 ''It's one and gun when you're pouring highballs,'' James said. ''Do not wait for all the alcohol to go into the glass. Pour the alcohol for a one count and then use your soda gun.''
 Luckily, the bottles we were using were filled with clear or colored water instead of real alcohol. I all but flooded the bar mat trying to perform my assigned task using both hands. 
 ''O.K., let's flip it up,'' James commanded. ''Go from behind the bar to the stool, and from the stool to behind the bar.''
 I blushed with embarrassment as Andrew and I switched places. Learning the bartending trade was already proving to be much trickier and more time-consuming than I expected. The beginner's course at the New York Bartending School costs $695, and consists of 40 hours of training spread out over five days. Classes run from 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. with two 15-minute breaks and half an hour for lunch. The school also offers a 16-hour course that can be taken over a two- or four-day period for $249.
 Demand for bartending instruction appears to be booming in spite of, and partly because of, the nation's current economic woes, according to Tom Sisson, founding director of the New York Bartending School. His original location at 68 West 39th Street in Manhattan has been operating for eight years. He recently opened a second school in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and is planning to open a third school in Garden City, N.Y. Many of his students turn to bartending after losing day jobs in other trades and professions, only to find that most drinking establishments do not have the time or inclination to train them from scratch.
 ''We have a 90 percent job placement rate,'' Tom said in a classroom interview. ''You only have to work at a bar for two or maybe three nights to make your school tuition back.''
 The bartending school's curriculum is comprehensive, informative and highly entertaining. (Hey, if you cannot have fun pouring drinks, what is the point in getting behind a bar?) Subjects range from making highballs, trendy club drinks, muddled drinks, shots and shooters to performing opening, closing and sale procedures with a computerized cash register. There is a seminar on liquor laws and regulation, and a customer service seminar that involves role playing. 
 The five-day course concludes with a written test, and an all-important speed test.
 ''The goal is to be able to make 20 drinks in under six minutes by Day 5,'' James announced after the lunch break on the first day.
 Alas, my classmate Andrew and I continued to struggle with making two drinks at a time using both hands at once. Except for a few of the introductory highballs like the vodka tonics, most of our assignments called for making drinks with exotic or whimsical names that required as many as eight ingredients. 
 The recipe for a Long Island iced tea, for example, was 1/2 ounce vodka, 1/2 ounce gin, 1/2 ounce rum, 1/2 ounce tequila, 1/2 ounce triple sec, 2 ounces sour mix, a splash of cola and a lemon wedge garnish. 
 Substituting various amounts of 7Up, Curacao, sloe gin, Southern Comfort, amaretto, cranberry juice and lime juice, we made cosmopolitans, metropolitans, Long Beach iced teas, electric lemonades, red devils, Alabama slammers and grateful deads.
 Along the way, James taught us to measure our pours by silently counting in our heads, with four beats equaling one ounce. He showed us how to shake drinks by inserting a pint glass into a large-size metal shaker, and how to separate glass and shaker with a pop of the hand. ''Shaking is the show aspect of bartending,'' James said. ''People will sit there and watch you all night. If you're shy, get over it. Once you develop your own style of shaking, it will make you money.''
 Andrew and I learned to apply our shaking skills to making classic martinis, provided, of course, that they were vodka-based. As James duly noted, gin is an aromatic spirit that should be stirred with a spoon to release the juniper-based flavor. A dry martini called for a drop of dry vermouth and a 14-count pour (3.5 ounces) of gin or vodka. A dirty martini called for 1/4 ounce of dry vermouth, a 14-count pour of gin or vodka, a spoonful of olive juice and three olives. The even more labor-intensive in-and-out martini required swirling 1/4 ounce of dry vermouth in the glass and then emptying it out before adding the gin or vodka.
 By the end of Day 1, we had taken turns mixing no less than 50 different cocktails, and Andrew was in an upbeat mood. ''This is something I've always wanted to do,'' he confided as we tidied up our station and refilled our bottles.
 I, on the other hand, was feeling Curacao blue. The demands of my current career as a writer precluded me from spending four more consecutive days learning the art of bartending. James reminded me that the school conducts continuous weekly classes. ''You can come in on any given Tuesday, and pick up where you left off today,'' he said. ''In the meantime, you should go out to a fancy hotel bar and do some firsthand research.''
 Always a conscientious student, I made a beeline for the Peninsula Hotel on 55th Street just off Fifth Avenue. Upon arriving at a second-floor bar, I was greeted by a bartender in a gold vest named Juan. I said that I had just come from bartending school, and that I had been unable to put my work products to a taste test because they were all made of clear or colored water. Thirsting for the real thing, I asked for a concoction called sex on the beach that combines peach schnapps, vodka, cranberry juice and orange juice. 
 Juan made his own version of the drink substituting pineapple juice for the orange juice. It hit the spot from the very first sip. I ordered another one, hoping that the weather would soon warm up and clarify the still-echoing sounds of Warp Brothers' ''Phatt Bass'' version of ''Confusion'' that were tending the bars of my soul. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Executive Pursuits column on Saturday, about a course at the New York Bartending School, misstated the relationship Tom Sisson has with the school. He is a director, not the founding director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Hurt III, an amateur drink maker, tries his hand at becoming more professional at the New York Bartending School in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



514 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns Collapse Turns New Hires Into Job Seekers

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Thousands of people are losing their jobs on Wall Street -- some before their first day of work.
 They polished resumes; they sweated interviews; they landed dream jobs. But now a small group of college and business school students are discovering that their careers at Bear Stearns ended before they began. JPMorgan Chase, which bought the beleaguered investment bank last month, rescinded many of their job offers. 
 Yashoda Khandkar, a senior at the University of Pennsylvania, is among 250 Bear hires who now find themselves unemployed in one of the worst financial job markets in years. 
 ''The worst part about the entire situation is that it's a really hard market for us to look for other jobs,'' Ms. Khandkar said. ''We probably can't get as good of jobs as we would have had.'' 
 Ivy Leaguers like Ms. Khandkar have more options than most, of course. And for now few of them have mortgages, unlike millions of Americans who are struggling just to pay the bills.
 But instead of starting new jobs at Bear, these students are now hunting for work along with a growing number of bankers and brokers. Since August, the financial industry has shed more than 38,000 jobs as a result of the credit crisis and the collapse of Bear Stearns. Citigroup added to the misery on Friday, saying it would eliminate 9,000 more jobs. No one thinks the pain will end there.
 The angst is most acute at Bear. Many of its 14,000 employees are expected to lose their jobs in the coming months. JPMorgan is running what its chief executive, James Dimon, has called a ''military operation'' to decide which employees at both banks will stay and which will go.
 For now, many of Bear's might-have-beens say they will keep hunting for jobs on Wall Street, where the typical new college graduate earns a starting annual salary of $80,000 or more, plus bonus. 
 And JPMorgan is offering the student recruits consolation prizes, provided they play by its rules. They can keep hefty signing bonuses that Bear promised them -- $10,000 for college seniors, and about $50,000 for M.B.A. students -- if they sign contracts in which they agree not to sue the bank over their rescinded jobs. If they do not sign, JPMorgan says, they cannot keep the money, which many of the students received last fall.
 JPMorgan is also offering to let the students use its career counseling center, where they can hone interview skills and brush up resumes. The bank will pay students who accepted summer internships at Bear Stearns, putting some to work in its own divisions and others to work at charities. 
 Before disaster struck, Bear Stearns -- one of the most prestigious employers in campus career offices -- signed on about 300 undergraduates and M.B.A.'s for full-time positions and about 300 interns for the summer. But those offers were thrown into question in March, when the 85-year-old company, undone by what amounted to a bank run, agreed to be acquired by JPMorgan in a controversial deal brokered by the federal government. 
 The students' fate depended on which corner of Bear they were going to join. Those who had signed on in the equities, banking and fixed-income divisions generally lost their jobs. Those who had joined in the energy, prime brokerage and merchant banking division will go to work for JPMorgan. 
 Elsie Mbugua was one of the lucky ones. A senior at Tufts who grew up in Kenya, Ms. Mbugua will work in energy trading at JPMorgan. 
 ''I could have been where any of my friends were,'' Ms. Mbugua said. ''In another department, the outcome would have been different.''
 For the Bear analyst class that will not be, the last month has been a roller coaster. The fate of their first jobs -- the culmination of years of hard work -- seemed to rise and fall with news from the financial markets. 
 The first sign of trouble came March 12, when Alan D. Schwartz, the chief executive of Bear, appeared on CNBC as rumors swirled that the bank was in trouble. After the program, a Bear human resources staff member e-mailed the clip to a group of incoming analysts and wrote a note telling them the bank was sound.
 Even after JPMorgan agreed to buy Bear for a fire-sale $2 a share, Bear staff members assured some students their jobs seemed safe. When JPMorgan subsequently raised its offer to $10 a share to placate angry Bear shareholders, the message turned less certain.
 ''There seemed to be a lot of confusion,'' said Emma Rasiel, director of undergraduate studies in economics at Duke and an adviser to students in job hunts. ''Initially the story was they would all go to JPMorgan, and then that changed. There were a lot of rumors flying around.''
 Groups of students who worked together as Bear interns last summer sent one another frenzied e-mail messages every time they talked to former colleagues.
 ''People were so freaked out on that e-mail chain,'' said Doug Behrman, a senior at the University of Pennsylvania who was supposed to work in Bear's investment banking division. ''We all kept in close contact. We'd read something in the news; we'd get tips.''
 Full-time Bear employees, everyone from people only a year on the job to senior managing directors, chatted with student recruits by phone and tried to offer advice. Students who have lost their jobs said in interviews that they feel far worse for some of those who would have been their colleagues. Many of those Bear workers, after all, have families to support, the students said.
 ''I don't hold any hostilities to Bear Stearns or JPMorgan,'' Mr. Behrman said. ''It's hard to feel animosity when I think of the older people who had a lot of net worth in Bear stock.'' He and other students chalked their lost jobs up to the financial markets, the bursting of the housing bubble and plain bad luck. 
 In March, JPMorgan referred all calls from students to Bear, but the bank recently has been returning calls from Bear students, said Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan. 
 ''It's a difficult situation for everyone at Bear Stearns, including graduates, but we're doing everything we can to help people find roles either inside JPMorgan or out,'' Ms. Lemkau said.
 Still, students complained that JPMorgan did not give clear signals early on about what would happen. 
 ''It was quite frustrating,'' said Arun Yang, a sophomore at Tufts, who may work at a nonprofit organization, courtesy of JPMorgan. ''I kept getting to the same dead-end, which was that I had to talk to Bear people.''
 Cheyenne Sparrow, a junior at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said she was skeptical all along, even though her contact at Bear assured her that everything would be fine. 
 ''My parents work in business, and they've sold companies, so I know the first thing you do is tell all the employees, 'Everything will be fine,' '' Ms. Sparrow said. ''It's a stall tactic.''
 Ultimately, JPMorgan did offer her an internship position.
 JPMorgan made up its mind on students beginning in late March. Bear Stearns staffers called them with the news, and JPMorgan followed up with a letter a week ago, asking them not to sue if they want their signing bonuses. Of course, for the ones who received their signing bonuses last fall because they accepted job offers early, JPMorgan's threat may not be enforceable, said Gary Phelan, a partner at Outten & Golden, an employment law firm.
 ''One could argue essentially that that was a gift,'' Mr. Phelan said. 
 Christine Choe, a senior at Tufts who had hoped to work for Bear, visited the firm's Manhattan headquarters last Friday. Ms. Choe wanted to see the people shecame to know during her summer internship, including Alan Greenberg, the former chief executive at Bear, who sat near her on the trading floor. 
 ''It was a very eerie environment,'' she said. ''No one was working; everyone was gone.''
 Ms. Choe is still looking for a job but has hope: a former Bear intern she knows just landed a job. Twenty years from now, Ms. Choe said, she knows she will remember this odd chapter in her life.
 ''I hope then that I'll have a job that I'll enjoy just as much as I did my summer at Bear,'' Ms. Choe said. ''But I still think it will shock me that this happened. I can't believe this actually happened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yashoda Khandkar's Bear Stearns offer was rescinded.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Yashoda Khandkar, a senior at the University of Pennsylvania, is looking for work as an analyst now that Bear Stearns rescinded its job offer to her after being bought by JPMorgan Chase.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BONUS PAY (69%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



515 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Managers Among 4,650 Losing AT&T Jobs

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
AT&T said Friday that it would eliminate the jobs of about 4,650 workers, trimming the managerial ranks in its fading home phone business after more than $100 billion in acquisitions. 
 The decision covers about 1.5 percent of the work force, AT&T, the largest American phone company, said in a regulatory filing. The dismissals are in addition to the 10,000 announced with the $86 billion purchase of BellSouth in December 2006, a spokesman, Walt Sharp, said.
 Most of the reductions apply to the local phone business, Mr. Sharp said.
 That unit lost 1.6 million residential lines last year as customers switched to cable and wireless phone service. AT&T, which had about 310,000 employees as of Jan. 31, has sought to reduce overlap in its operations since buying BellSouth and the former AT&T Corporation. It plans to cut annual costs by about $7 billion by 2009.
 AT&T plans to book a pretax cost of about $374 million for the job cuts in the first quarter. Before the announcement, analysts on average predicted AT&T would report net income of $3.95 billion for the period.
 The company is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings on Tuesday. In the previous quarter, sales fell short of analysts' estimates after some customers failed to pay their bills, hurt by slowing economic growth.
 The cuts will occur in all parts of the United States, Mr. Sharp said. AT&T provides home phone service in 22 states. With new hires in other parts of the business, the company expects overall head count to remain stable this year, according to the filing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



516 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFINGS SOUTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Florida: Governor Speaks Out Against Federal Water Plan

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A federal proposal that would let Georgia keep more water during droughts instead of letting it eventually flow into Apalachicola Bay means that Florida would be ''bearing the brunt'' of problems, said Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida. Florida officials had offered no reaction since the Army Corps of Engineers announced a proposal on Tuesday that would allow greater storage in upstream lakes and lower river flows into Florida. But in a statement, Mr. Crist said, ''We will continue to pursue all opportunities to ensure protection for Florida's environment, economy and quality of life.'' Florida, Alabama and Georgia have fought for nearly two decades over water rights. Georgia wants to hold back more water in federal reservoirs to serve its growing population. Florida and Alabama argue that Georgia has not adequately planned for growth. The new proposal comes after negotiations among the governors of the three states broke down in February, prompting Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to say the federal government would impose its own solution. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); RIVERS (88%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LAKES (87%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); WATER RIGHTS (70%); ARMIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (58%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (72%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (99%); GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



517 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Brown Urges Global Push To Solve Global Problems

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Europe and the United States must increase their efforts to solve global problems like terrorism, the environment, hunger and poverty, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain said Friday in a wide-ranging speech at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum here. 
 ''We urgently need to step out of the mind-set of competing interests and instead find our common interests -- and we must summon up the best instincts and efforts of humanity in a cooperative effort to build new international rules and institutions for the new global era,'' Mr. Brown said. He was in Boston the day after visiting Washington to meet with President Bush and the three major candidates for the presidency.
 Making numerous references to the post-World War II era and to Kennedy's push for internationalism, Mr. Brown said that the world needed ''a new deal'' much like the Marshall Plan, and that countries like the United States and Britain must work to stabilize volatile nations and prevent crimes against humanity and terrorism.
 He praised President Bush for ''leading the world'' in the fight against terrorism, and reaffirmed his support for a unified response that includes freezing assets, tightening international law and imposing travel bans, which he said he and Mr. Bush discussed Thursday at the White House. 
 ''He and I agree terrorism will ultimately be defeated only when it is isolated and abandoned,'' the prime minister said. More must be done, however, to intervene in countries shaken by conflict and to stamp out atrocities, he said. 
 ''Instability in one country will affect stability in all countries; an injustice anywhere is now a threat to justice everywhere,'' Mr. Brown said. ''And that is how we must respond: not walking away as we did in Rwanda at the cost of thousands of lives, but by engaging as hard-headed internationalists.'' 
 Mr. Brown continued to call for reform of the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and urged a greater role for China, India, South Africa and other emerging countries in those organizations and in the Group of 8, which consists of leading industrialized countries. He also said that the European Union, the African Union and other groups of countries should help with humanitarian aid and peacekeeping in troubled nations. 
 ''For the first time in human history, we have the opportunity to come together around a global covenant, to reframe the international architecture and build the truly global society,'' he said. 
 That covenant must include investments in education, disease prevention and the elimination of food shortages, the prime minister said. He suggested a series of international conferences next year to discuss how to make his proposals a reality. 
 With a nod to Kennedy's creation of the Peace Corps in the 1960s, Mr. Brown urged the creation of a global peace corps that would train its volunteers to help rebuild countries. 
 He continued to call for an international agreement to combat climate change, and urged the halving of carbon emissions by 2050. 
 ''American leadership will be and is indispensable,'' Mr. Brown said. ''And now is an opportunity for an historic effort in cooperation: a new dawn in collaborative action between America and Europe.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); LIBRARIES (57%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (56%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



518 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Bush Names Housing Secretary, but Some Question Whether He Is Right for Job

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Ron Nixon contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush chose Steven C. Preston on Friday as his new housing secretary, praising him as a ''consensus builder'' and ''a reformer who would act aggressively'' to help families facing foreclosure to stay in their homes. 
 But several lawmakers and housing advocates said they remained uncertain whether Mr. Preston, 47, who currently heads the Small Business Administration, would push the federal housing agency to embrace a more assertive role in the nation's housing crisis or would instead serve as merely a caretaker in the waning months of the Bush administration. 
 Mr. Preston would certainly inherit significant challenges as the head of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which has come to new prominence recently in the administration's effort to help staunch the flood of foreclosures across the country.
 The Federal Housing Administration, the branch of HUD that officials are asking to help hundreds of thousands of vulnerable homeowners refinance to stable, government-backed loans, is on the brink of insolvency. Democrats and some Republicans argue that the department's budget for public and low income housing is inadequate. 
 And some lawmakers, even as they welcome the change in HUD's leadership, remain skeptical that the Bush administration's approach to the flood of foreclosures is adequate to the need.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee and has been strongly critical of the departing secretary, Alphonso R. Jackson, also noted that Mr. Preston would be landing in the job without any experience in housing matters.
 ''We need a strong leader at the Department of Housing and Urban Development,'' Mr. Dodd said. ''Yet the president's choice has no apparent housing background, which raises questions.''
 Dismissing such concerns, Mr. Bush praised Mr. Preston as a leader ''who's earned the respect of Republicans and Democrats, who can get things done.''
 Mr. Jackson, 64, resigned in the midst of a federal investigation into whether he steered lucrative housing contracts to friends. On Friday, Mr. Bush praised him as ''a decent man, a dedicated man,'' who had ''worked tirelessly to help America's homeowners.''
 Bush administration officials say Mr. Preston, who won easy Senate approval for his current posting, is well positioned to succeed Mr. Jackson in handling the housing crisis, particularly given his experience in government and in the private sector. 
 Before being named S.B.A. administrator in 2006, Mr. Preston served as executive vice president of the ServiceMaster Company, a multibillion-dollar corporation whose businesses include TruGreen ChemLawn, a lawn care company, and Terminix, a pest control company. Earlier in his career, he worked as an investment banker at Lehman Brothers.
 Mr. Preston said he joined the Bush administration in the first place because of his belief ''in the vision of helping people reach their dreams of owning a business, owning a retirement portfolio and, of course, owning a home.''
 As for the current problems in housing, Mr. Preston said, ''Our solutions must restore confidence in our markets while not erecting barriers to future entrepreneurs, investors and home buyers.''
 Over the years, Mr. Preston has won praise from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle for bringing stability to the Small Business Administration, which has been devastated by budget cuts and poor performance after Hurricane Katrina. Mr. Preston made fixing the disaster loans program, which provides long-term loans to homeowners and businesses, his priority when he took office. 
 He also tackled an issue that had dogged the agency under previous administrators, instances in which large companies received small-business contracts.
 But his tenure was not without controversy. In 2007, S.B.A. workers reported to their superiors that the agency, in an effort to speed the disaster loans process after months of criticism, made thousands of loans without following its own rules to avoid fraud. 
 And earlier this year, Mr. Preston was sharply criticized when Democrats in Congress learned that his agency had given a $1.2 million contract to a former Bush administration official who lacked experience in helping small businesses compete for government contracts. 
 The contract went to a company owned by Vernon B. Parker, who served as assistant secretary for civil rights in the Agriculture Department from 2003 to 2006. Mr. Preston called on the agency's inspector general to investigate. 
 On Friday, Mr. Preston began reaching out to housing advocates, making telephone calls to introduce himself. 
 ''He has a reputation as a good manager and that's certainly what HUD needs at this point,'' said Sheila Crowley of the Low Income Housing Coalition, who received a call. ''But there is not a lot of time, and there are a lot of problems at the agency.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a member of the Banking Committee, said he was hopeful that Mr. Preston was up to the job.
 ''The No. 1 criteria for this job is strength and independence to persuade the administration that more government involvement is needed on the housing crisis and the economy,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''It remains to be seen whether Mr. Preston has these qualities.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); BUDGETS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); CITIES (69%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SERVICEMASTER CO (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561730 LANDSCAPING SERVICES (80%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (80%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (80%); SIC7342 DISINFECTING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (80%); SIC0782 LAWN & GARDEN SERVICES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (78%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



519 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2269 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ALBANIANS LOOK FOR ANSWERS
 Behind a Deadly Explosion
 The description seems to suggest an accident that was waiting to happen, and it was: a factory in which inexperienced villagers pried apart artillery shells using metal rods and their bare hands exploded last month, killing 26 people. Albanians are now asking how the country could have allowed such a hazardous situation to exist. PAGE A5 
 PUTIN SAYS NO NEW MRS. PUTIN
 He has no doubt heard the whispers before, the rumors about his wandering eye. But when President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia was asked about a newspaper article that said he was about to leave his wife for a 24-year-old gymnast less than half his age, he said there was no truth to it, despite his great affection for all Russian women. And Italian. PAGE A5 
 TOUGHER TERRORISM LAWS SOUGHT
 European Union justice ministers agreed to toughen laws to punish those who promote violence and recruit people for terrorist attacks across the 27-nation bloc, including through use of the Internet. Countries that already have strong antiterrorism laws, like Spain and Britain, will not need to make significant changes. But countries with more lenient rules, like Sweden and Denmark, may need to adopt new and tougher legislation. PAGE A8 
 IN MEXICO, A GOVERNMENT STYMIED
 For eight days, leftist lawmakers in Mexico have paralyzed business in both houses of Congress with a sit-in to stop President Felipe Calderon's bill to revamp the oil monopoly and allow it greater freedoms. The efforts, led by a populist leader who has refused to concede his defeat in the 2006 presidential election, come with a political price and have rattled the nation. PAGE A7 
 Arrests of Tibetan Protesters A9 
 Premier Urges British-U.S. Efforts A5 
 Carter Meets Hamas Leader A6 
 NATIONAL
 PLAN TO EXPAND DNA SAMPLING
 Faces Problem of Backlogs
 The Bush administration moved forward with a program to greatly expand the collection of DNA samples from people in federal custody, proposing regulations that would essentially mirror the practice of collecting fingerprints. But it was unclear how federal laboratories, already backlogged with previous samples, would be able to handle the additional work. PAGE A11
 THE WINDY CITY SHAKES
 Chicago is known for many things, including cold weather, deep-dish pizza and a long-suffering baseball team and its fans. But earthquakes generally are not among them, and so the one that shook the city -- along with some 120,000 square miles from northern Michigan south to Memphis, and from Kansas City, Mo., east to Nashville -- was definitely the talk of the town. PAGE A10 
 GEARING UP FOR TOSSUPS
 Senator John McCain's political advisers say his potential appeal to independents could make him competitive in up to two dozen tossup states, twice as many as Republicans seriously contested in the 2004 presidential race. So the campaign, after securing the nomination on a shoestring budget, is gearing up for a more extensive effort. PAGE A12
 MCCAIN'S INCOME LOWEST IN RACE
 Mr. McCain's income tax returns for the past two years showed that he had taxable income of about $474,100 but revealed little of the sizable wealth of his wife, who files a separate return. The campaign said it would not release Mrs. McCain's return in ''the interest of protecting the privacy'' of their children. PAGE A12
 SECT'S CHILDREN TO STAY IN CUSTODY
 After hearing two days of testimony, Judge Barbara Walther, above, ordered that all 416 children seized in the raid of a polygamist religious sect be held in protective custody by Texas officials pending further investigation into whether they were abused, or at risk of abuse in their community. She also ordered maternal and paternal testing on all the children. PAGE A11 
 On Religion A15
 Fourth Graders Debate Campaign A10 
 NEW YORK REPORT
 POPE CALLS HUMAN RIGHTS
 Essential for Security
 Pope Benedict XVI arrived in New York and addressed the United Nations, saying that the promotion of human rights is central to the world's security. ''Indeed, the victims of hardship and despair, whose human dignity is violated with impunity, become easy prey to the call to violence, and they can then become violators of peace,'' he said. PAGE B1
 A VISIT TO A CHANGED ENCLAVE
 The German-born pope visited Yorkville, home to a German enclave that existed around St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church on East 87th Street from the late 1800s through the mid-20th century. But things are not the same in Yorkville anymore, and other former German areas of the city have likewise changed. PAGE B1
 THE NAKED LAPELS
 The Democratic debate Wednesday night had four people on stage, tallying among them eight lapels, and nary an American flag pin on any of them. But only one person had to answer for it. Of course if the debate were in North Korea, no one would have dared go pinless. Jim Dwyer, About New York. PAGE B1
 BUSINESS
 CITIGROUP WRITE-OFFS LEAD
 To Record $5.1 Billion Loss
 Vikram S. Pandit may have passed his first test with Citigroup investors: cleaning up the financial carnage with the announcement of a company-record $5.1 billion loss after writing off billions of dollars of troubled debts. Now comes the hard part, including proving that earnings can grow at a time when Citi will face billions of dollars of consumer loan losses. PAGE C1
 HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME?
 Airlines in the United States have shunned the use of cellphones in flight (train commuters can only dream) but some European and Mideast carriers are preparing to offer the service as early as this summer. Air France already has a test program. But technological hurdles exist -- and oh, those roaming charges. PAGE C1
 A RIFT OVER DRUG PROMOTIONS
 The Food and Drug Administration has been considering a proposal to let drug makers use reprints of journal articles in promoting drugs for uses the F.D.A. itself has not approved. But a report indicating that Merck used ghostwriters to produce medical journal articles in support of its subsequently discredited drug Vioxx has galvanized opponents to the proposal. PAGE C3
 PUTTING A VALUE ON COLLEGE
 The decisions aren't easy in the best of times. But in these tumultuous financial times, they are even more difficult as parents and high school seniors weigh the options: Should they choose the most affordable college? Or should they pick the one with more prestige, even if it's a financial stretch, even if it means going deep into debt? PAGE C1 
 S. KOREA TO RESUME BEEF IMPORTS
 South Korea agreed to resume beef imports from the United States that were halted in 2003 by concerns over mad cow disease. The decision removed a major dispute and shows how eager South Korea's new president, Lee Myung-bak, is to mend ties with Washington. PAGE B3 
 Move Toward Ban on Plastics C2 
 Fannie Mae Scandal Settlement C6
 ARTS
 DRESSING UP THE BOWERY
 Loud guitars blared. A capacity crowd filled every nook and cranny, and tattered rock 'n' roll posters looked down from the dark walls. It might have been any big night at CBGB, but no, this was a party and concert for an upscale boutique in the space where CBGB once stood. ''The whole purpose of coming here was to retain part of the history,'' said the owner. And, he did not say, to help sell $500 shirts and $2,000 jackets. PAGE B1 
 SMALL, AS ABSTRACT CONCEPT
 In abstract painting, big has been viewed as better at least since Jackson Pollock, Roberta Smith writes, with small abstractions mostly shunted off to the wings. But, she adds, ''In a time of glut and waste on every front, compression and economy have an undeniable appeal.'' And a number of small works by artists young and less-so are on display in New York now. PAGE B1 
 HONORING AN IDEAL
 The goal was noble: two friends and performance artists would wear white wedding dresses and hitchhike from Italy to the Middle East to send a message of peace. After three weeks on the road, one was dead, killed by a driver who offered her a ride. On Saturday, family, friends and supporters will honor her memory and her quixotic quest. PAGE B1 
 Playwrights Saving the World B7
 'Monet's Palate' B14
 OBITUARIES
 ROBERT T. HARTMANN, 91
 A speechwriter, he wrote President Gerald R. Ford's 1974 address to the nation after the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon, proclaiming, ''My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.'' Mr. Ford at first suggested that the phrase ''national nightmare'' be struck, thinking it a bit harsh. Mr. Hartmann told him, ''Junk all the rest of the speech if you want to, but not that.'' PAGE A17
 DANNY FEDERICI, 58
 A keyboardist, he played in Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band since it began and was Mr. Springsteen's collaborator since they jammed together in Jersey Shore clubs in the 1960's. PAGE A17
 MARTIN BALIN, 62
 A Vietnam War protester, he was one of six whose plot to set fire to six buildings in Manhattan in 1970 was derailed at the last moment by undercover police officers. The arrests made front-page news in a turbulent time when factions of the antiwar movement like the Weather Underground, a splinter group of the Students for a Democratic Society, were increasingly veering toward violence. PAGE A17
 SPORTS
 TRAINER SAID TO SUPPLY STEROIDS
 Denies Canseco's Allegations
 In Jose Canseco's new book, he says that he introduced Alex Rodriguez to a trainer named ''Max,'' who Canseco alleges provided Rodriguez with steroids. The real name of the trainer, Joseph Dion, was made public Friday, and Dion denied that he provided steroids to Rodriguez. The revelation comes four days before Canseco is scheduled to meet with federal authorities for questioning in the investigation of Roger Clemens. PAGE D1
 THE TOPSY-TURVY N.B.A. PLAYOFFS
 Boston, the best team in the N.B.A.'s Eastern Conference, was its worst a year ago, and it sits atop the seeding in the N.B.A. playoffs. The Western Conference teams that have been so dominant recently could be eliminated in the first round. The logjam of talented teams in the West and a top-heavy East means that any number of teams could become champion. PAGE D2
 N.B.A. Approves Sonics' Relocation D2 
 THIS WEEKEND
 ARTS & LEISURE
 In the summer of 2003, Robert Downey Jr. drove to a Burger King , tossed all his drugs into the ocean, and dug into his burger. Five years on, a Burger King Kids Meal comes with a Robert Downey Jr. action figure, part of the marketing push for ''Iron Man,'' the coming superhero movie in which Mr. Downey plays Tony Stark, an unfocused but brilliant man with a penchant for fast living who straightens up once he almost loses his life. PAGE 1
 The actor Morgan Freeman is known for movie roles in which he plays stoic men who offer sage advice -- ''the word dignified is pasted to my behind,'' he quips -- but in the Broadway play, ''The Country Girl,'' he takes on a character who is rudderless and in need of direction. The play marks Mr. Freeman's return to the stage after decades of film work. PAGE 1
 EDUCATION LIFE
 Barring a last-minute rescue, soon after next Saturday's commencement the 156-year-old Antioch College will be emptied of students, faculty and staff, lose its accreditation and cease operations for at least a few years. Amid the hostile factions, last-ditch negotiations and debates about the school's values, a cadre of students and faculty members have stuck it out on a near-bankrupt campus. PAGE 18 
 BOOK REVIEW
 Dermot Bolger's novel ''The Journey Home'' was released in Britain in 1990, but it is only now appearing on the shelves of American bookstores. ''It is one of the few Bolger novels -- he has written more than half a dozen, as well as poetry and many plays -- in print in the United States, and that's a crying shame,'' says Terrence Rafferty. PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 Ian Fisher says Rome's sights are best enjoyed at night. ''Rome at night is, in short, a city lit like a theater, and, especially in the warmer months, should be enjoyed like one.'' PAGE 8 
 EDITORIAL
 NOW HE'S READY TO DEAL
 President Bush's latest compromise for ending North Korea's nuclear program is agitating critics -- outside his administration and in. It is an imperfect solution. But imperfect may be all one can expect, after Mr. Bush wasted so much time refusing to consider any compromise at all. PAGE A18
 TOO MUCH DISCRETION
 New Yorkers can be forgiven for feeling as if they have been transported back to the bad old days of Tammany Hall. It should not take federal indictments to show City Council members that the current system is in need of a serious overhaul. PAGE A18
 THE UNFINISHED REFORM OF 9/11
 Congress embraced nearly every call for reform from the 9/11 commission. Guess which one it didn't? It has overlooked the call to consolidate Congress's multiple intelligence oversight committees and subcommittees -- which ends up leaving no one with real oversight power. PAGE A18
 OP-ED
 BOB HERBERT
 The Democrats are doing what they're good at -- figuring out ways to lose the White House. PAGE A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 President Bush held a press conference in the Rose Garden this week to give us a global warming progress report. We're supposedly on the road toward reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 18 percent by 2012. But goals that involve reducing the rate at which something is growing are never quite so simple. PAGE A19
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 Mr. Blow, graphics director for The Times from 1996 to 2004 and art director of National Geographic magazine from 2006 to 2008, starts today as a graphics columnist for the Op-Ed page. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ATHLETES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); HAMAS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); DNA (62%); SPORTS FANS (60%); BASEBALL (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (75%); FELIPE CALDERON (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) ALBANIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); DENMARK (76%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



520 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Will Lift Its Ban on American Beef

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea agreed on Friday to resume beef imports from the United States, ending a ban begun in 2003 over concerns about mad cow disease. 
 The decision removed a major dispute between the allies, hours before President Bush was to meet South Korea's new president, Lee Myung-bak, in Washington to discuss free trade and North Korea. 
 The deal clears an important obstacle to Congressional support for a wider free trade deal that the Bush administration has struck with South Korea. The agreement also shows how eager Mr. Lee is to mend ties with Washington, even though American beef imports are unpopular among South Korean farmers. 
 Mr. Lee is trying to persuade Parliament to ratify the free trade deal before its term ends in late May, hoping that ratification would give President Bush further leverage to press Congress for its approval. 
 Mr. Lee welcomed the beef deal as ''removing a stumbling block for the Korea-U.S. free trade agreement,'' the news agency Yonhap reported from Washington. 
 South Korea suspended American beef imports in 2003 after an outbreak of mad cow disease, depriving United States exporters of their third-largest market for American beef. 
 Agricultural officials in Seoul said Friday that South Korea would allow American beef imports from cattle younger than 30 months. Younger cows are believed to be less at risk from mad cow disease. 
 Imports will resume in mid-May and expand later to beef from older cattle, it said. 
 In a study sponsored by the Korea Society in New York and the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, a group of American scholars warned this week that a failure by the United States to ratify the free trade deal ''would damage U.S.-Korea relations.'' 
 But the free-trade pact faces stiff opposition from the two Democratic presidential candidates: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama. 
 Congressional approval of the trade deal, the biggest since the North American Free Trade Agreement went into force in 1994, would be an important part of Mr. Bush's legacy. 
 As for Mr. Lee, the pact -- although it was negotiated by his predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun -- would help him purse his most important election promise, which was to revive South Korea's economy. 
 Experts have estimated the trade deal could increase the countries' two-way $78 billion annual trade by $20 billion. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally in front of a government complex on Friday in Gwacheon, South Korea, was held in protest of the government's beef plans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AHN YOUNG-JOON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); BEEF (92%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MEATS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



521 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Road Map to Defeat

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Democrats are doing everything they can to blow this presidential election. This is a skill that comes naturally to the party. There is no such thing as a can't-miss year for the Democrats. They are truly gifted at finding ways to lose.
 Jimmy Carter managed to win the White House in 1976 by looking pious and riding a wave of anti-Watergate revulsion. After four hapless years, he dutifully handed the keys back to the G.O.P. 
 Bill Clinton tried hard to lose, with sex scandals and whatnot, during the 1992 campaign. But Ross Perot wouldn't let him. Mr. Clinton won with a piddling 43 percent of the vote. For eight years, Mr. Clinton tried to throw the presidency away (with sex scandals and whatnot), but he was never able to succeed.
 That's been it for the party for the past 40 years. The Democrats have become so psychologically battered by these many decades in the leadership wilderness that they consider the Clinton years, during which the president was impeached and they lost control of both houses of Congress, to have been a period of triumph.
 Now comes 2008, a can't-lose year if there ever was one. A united Democratic Party should be able to win this election in a walk. The economy is terrible and getting worse. The Republicans are demoralized. John McCain is no J.F.K. And the country wants to elect a Democrat.
 So what are the Democrats doing? The Clintons are running around with flamethrowers, gleefully trying to incinerate the prospects of the party's leading candidate, Barack Obama. As Bill Clinton put it last month: ''If a politician doesn't want to get beat up, he shouldn't run for office.''
 Senator Obama, for his part, seems to have lost sight of the unifying message that proved so compelling early in his campaign and has stumbled into weird cultural predicaments that have caused some people to rethink his candidacy.
 While some of those predicaments raise legitimate concerns (his former pastor, his comments in San Francisco) and some do not (stupid questions about wearing a flag pin), he has allowed them to fester unnecessarily. The way for a candidate to eventually change the subject is to offer policy prescriptions so creative and compelling that they generate excitement among the electorate and can't be ignored by the press.
 Voters want more from Senator Obama. He's given a series of wonderful speeches, but he has to add more meat to those rhetorical bones. He needs to be clear about where he wants to lead this country and how he plans to do it. That's how a candidate defines himself or herself.
 Instead, Mr. Obama is allowing the Clintons and the news media to craft a damaging persona of him as some kind of weak-kneed brother from another planet, out of touch with mainstream America, and perhaps a loser.
 Wednesday night's debate in Philadelphia may have been a sorry exercise in journalism, but even many of Senator Obama's own supporters were disappointed with his lackluster performance.
 The big issues of our time are being left behind as pettiness and mean-spirited partisanship carry the day.
 Voters across the country seem disgusted with this state of affairs. George Stephanopoulos and Charles Gibson of ABC News are being pilloried for the way they conducted Wednesday's debate. Hillary Clinton's disapproval ratings have climbed into a zone that makes it legitimate to wonder whether she could defeat Senator McCain. And much of the excitement and enthusiasm surrounding Mr. Obama's candidacy has cooled.
 That raucous laughter you hear in the background is coming from the likes of Karl Rove, Dick Cheney, President Bush and Senator McCain. They can't believe their good fortune.
 The issues still favor the Democrats. More and more Americans are losing their jobs, and many of those still employed are working fewer hours and cashing smaller paychecks. Vacation plans are being curtailed because of declining family income and sky-high gasoline prices. The value of the family home is eroding. 
 Instead of capitalizing on the political advantages presented by these issues, the Democrats, with their increasingly small-minded approach to this election, are squandering them.
 There was always going to be resistance in the U.S. to putting a black person or a woman of any color in the White House. To overcome that built-in resistance, three things are crucially important: new voters have to be brought into the process; the nominee must have an exciting and compelling message; and the party has to be extraordinarily unified behind its standard-bearer.
 It's not too late for the Democrats to pull this off. But there's already blood on the floor from the nomination fight, and the fight ain't over. The G.O.P.'s fondest wish is that the Democrats keep doing what they're doing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); SEX SCANDALS (70%); SCANDALS (70%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



522 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Impugns Obama's Toughness

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: RADNOR, Pa. 

 BODY:
Heading into the final weekend before the crucial Pennsylvania primary, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton questioned Senator Barack Obama's toughness, a tactic her campaign called an 11th-hour message to uncommitted superdelegates who may have lingering concerns over his electability. 
 At a rally at Radnor Senior High School, one of two high schools at which she spoke on Friday, Mrs. Clinton seized upon Mr. Obama's remarks made the day after Wednesday's Democratic debate, when he expressed his irritation at the moderator's questions and the debate format. Mrs. Clinton said dryly that Mr. Obama had been ''complaining about the hard questions.'' 
 ''Well, having been in the White House for eight years, and seeing what happens in terms of the pressures and the stresses of the president, that was nothing,'' she said of the debate. 
 The implication that Mr. Obama was whining about the debate -- a thought first raised by Bill Clinton on Thursday -- was batted back by Mr. Obama as he campaigned across Pennsylvania. 
 ''Did you hear me complain?'' Mr. Obama said, answering a shouted question from a reporter as he walked off his campaign airplane Friday afternoon. 
 Mr. Obama focused on Mrs. Clinton and Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee. He criticized Mr. McCain for suggesting that ''there's been great progress economically'' during the Bush administration. At an evening rally in Philadelphia, he attacked Mrs. Clinton as embracing the ''say-anything, do-anything, special-interest driven game in Washington.''
 Obama campaign aides, however, swiftly struck back at Mrs. Clinton, saying that her ''blatant hypocrisy here is stunning.'' 
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Obama's spokesman, Bill Burton, noted that Mrs. Clinton had complained about the debate questions, including her declaration at a debate on Feb. 26 in Cleveland that first questions were more frequently directed at her. 
 Mrs. Clinton's complaints about Mr. Obama followed his sharp criticism Thursday of the debate, sponsored by ABC News, which he accused of ''playing gotcha games.'' Mr. Obama did not say that the questions had been too difficult, but rather that issues that mattered most to voters -- the economy, the war, health care -- were overshadowed by a series of questions about his background, including incendiary remarks made by his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and his association with Bill Ayers, who was a member of the radical 1960s group the Weather Underground.
 For the first half of the debate, Mr. Obama was also on the defensive over questions about his patriotism and his understanding of small-town America, with both the debate moderators and Mrs. Clinton keeping the focus on him. 
 It was not the first time Mrs. Clinton had suggested that Mr. Obama was not tough enough to withstand the pressures of campaigning. Earlier on Friday, she told a Fox affiliate in Philadelphia that ''we need a president who can take whatever comes your way.'' And Bill Clinton took a similar shot at Mr. Obama on Thursday, saying he did not hear Mrs. Clinton ''whining'' when she was under pressure. 
 On Friday, the campaign said it had picked up the support of three superdelegates: Representative Betty Sutton of Ohio and two former New Jersey governors, Jim Florio and Brendan T. Byrne. 
 But Mrs. Clinton created a controversy of her own Friday evening when disparaging comments she had made against the liberal group Moveon.org were made public. At a private fund-raiser in February, Mrs. Clinton blamed what she referred to as the ''activist base'' of the Democratic Party for her defeats in caucuses this year. 
 ''They know I don't agree with them,'' Mrs. Clinton was heard saying, according to a recording on The Huffington Post. ''So they flood into these caucuses and dominate them and really intimidate people who actually show up to support me.''
 The executive director of MoveOn, Eli Pariser, said Mrs. Clinton was being divisive when ''Democrats will soon need to unify to beat Senator McCain.''
 Mr. Obama also received endorsements Friday from two former senators, Sam Nunn of Georgia and David L. Boren of Oklahoma, who said they believed Mr. Obama had the best judgment to be commander in chief, and by Robert B. Reich, a labor secretary in the Clinton administration. None is a superdelegate.
 In Erie, Pa., Mr. Obama criticizing a comment Mr. McCain made Thursday on Bloomberg Television. In the interview, Mr. McCain conceded that people were facing ''very challenging times'' but went on to say that ''there's been great progress economically'' during the Bush administration.
 ''John McCain went on television and said that there has been great progress economically over the last seven and a half years,'' Mr. Obama told the audience. ''John McCain thinks our economy has made great progress under George W. Bush.''
 Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, called Mr. Obama's remarks ''recklessly dishonest.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton cheering with students Friday at Radnor High School in Radnor, Pa. Mrs. Clinton implied that her opponent, Senator Barack Obama, lacked toughness.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Obama in Erie, Pa., at Behrend College, which is part of Pennsylvania State University. Mr. Obama's campaign aides said Mrs. Clinton had also complained about the debate questioning.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); SUPERDELEGATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



523 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: As War's Costs Rise, Congress Demands That Iraq Pay Larger Share

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Congress gears up to debate President Bush's latest request for $108 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, lawmakers in both parties are pointing to record-high oil prices and demanding that Iraq pay a larger share of the costs, especially for reconstruction efforts. 
 In a letter to the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, a group of 10 senators -- six Democrats and four Republicans -- wrote that Iraq was likely to see a ''financial windfall'' of about $56 billion from high oil prices and that it should be forced to spend that money. 
 ''The time has come to end this blank-check policy and require the Iraqis to invest in their own future,'' the senators wrote.
 The rising clamor, particularly among Republican lawmakers who face tough re-election challenges, and new polls showing Americans more dissatisfied than ever with the war, are ratcheting up the pressure on the Bush administration ahead of what is likely to be a pitched battle over the war spending bill. 
 Congressional Democrats have said that they will not simply grant Mr. Bush's request, but will once again seek to attach strings, including a requirement that Iraq pay a higher share of the costs. The Democrats also plan to add up to $30 billion in domestic spending that they say is needed to help the economy. 
 Some Democrats are also trying to approve an additional $70 billion to sustain military operations through the end of Mr. Bush's term, a move that would draw greater attention to the high cost of the Iraq war. 
 Mr. Bush's current request would finance the Iraq and Afghanistan operations through Sept. 30. 
 In a new line of attack against the administration, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, has taken to stressing that the cost of the Iraq war is roughly $5,000 per second. 
 ''The president has not been honest about the cost of the war from the beginning,'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference this week. ''$5,000 a second, $434 million every day. Seven days a week, no weekends off, no vacations. $12 billion every month.'' 
 The White House says it shares the view that Iraq must shoulder more of the costs, and insists that Iraq is already beginning to do so. But the administration continues to dismiss criticism of its spending. 
 ''Fighting terrorism and taking care of our veterans is not inexpensive,'' the budget director, Jim Nussle, wrote in a letter this week. ''We acknowledge that. However the economy also benefits when terrorist attacks are prevented and we doubt any critics of the level of spending take that into account.'' 
 At a news conference on Thursday, 3 of the 10 senators who wrote to Mr. Gates -- Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana; Susan Collins, Republican of Maine; and Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska -- said they would press the administration to force Iraq to spend more of its budget surplus, projected at $60 billion, on reimbursing American expenses, including the cost of fuel. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, is considering pushing the debate into yet another arena next week, an aide said, perhaps by asking the State Department to determine if Iraq is using American tax dollars to hire lawyers and lobbyists to influence Congress and the administration. 
 Mr. Schumer does not know if that was the case, the aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the senator had not yet finalized his plans. But he said Mr. Schumer believed that it was inappropriate for Iraq to try to influence policy while American soldiers were in Iraq. 
 Since 2003, $22 million has been spent by political and government entities in Iraq on lawyers, lobbyists and other consultants who represent them in the United States, according to Justice Department records. 
 The Iraqi government has been the biggest spender: $15.6 million through late last year, with the Kurdistan Regional Government spending $6 million. 
 Mr. Schumer's concerns mostly relate to two firms hired by the Iraqi government that helped defeat a proposal in Congress that would have allowed Americans to seize Iraqi assets to settle certain outstanding legal claims.
 Samir Sumaidaie, Iraq's ambassador in Washington, rejected Mr. Schumer's criticism, saying that United States aid has never been used to pay its lobbying and law firms here.
 ''I can say categorically, that no such thing has happened,'' he said Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

PERSON: JIM NUSSLE (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%); HARRY REID (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



524 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Now He's Ready to Deal

 BODY:
President Bush's latest compromise for ending North Korea's nuclear program is agitating critics -- outside his administration and in. It is an imperfect solution. But imperfect may be all one can expect after Mr. Bush wasted so much time refusing to consider any compromise at all. 
 For six years, Mr. Bush rejected any meaningful negotiations. The result? Pyongyang kept adding to its plutonium stockpile -- it now has enough for eight or more bombs -- and tested a nuclear device. 
 When Mr. Bush finally agreed to try diplomacy -- and gave a serious diplomat, Christopher Hill, the room to negotiate -- Washington correctly insisted on a ''complete and correct'' accounting of all North Korea's nuclear activities as an important step toward dismantling the program. Now Mr. Bush is willing to accept less. 
 The North Koreans won't have to come clean -- at least for now -- on their fledgling uranium-based weapons program, which American officials believe has been shut down. Nor will they be required to publicly admit to selling Syria the technology and know-how to build a nuclear reactor. Israel destroyed that project last September. Instead, officials say, the United States will stipulate what it knows about these programs, and Pyongyang only has to ''acknowledge'' these ''concerns.'' 
 Of course, if a Democratic president had made similar compromises, hard-line Republicans probably would have called for impeachment. That said, Mr. Hill may be right that this is the only chance to push the process to the next step: getting North Korea to dismantle its plutonium-based reactor at Yongbyon and eventually surrender all its nuclear fuel and weapons. 
 That is the clear and present danger. The North Koreans have already shut down Yongbyon -- an important but insufficient accomplishment.
 Presuming the current compromise comes together -- the two sides remain divided over the size of North Korea's plutonium fuel stocks -- North Korea would be removed from America's list of terrorist states and from sanctions under the Trading With the Enemy Act and receive a large shipment of heavy fuel oil. 
 All of this is especially frustrating when one considers how much safer the world would be if Mr. Bush had picked up where President Bill Clinton left off in 2001. In those days, the North Koreans only had enough plutonium for one or two bombs. Activities at Yongbyon were frozen under a 1994 agreement. Mr. Bush and his aides detested that agreement, and as soon as they discovered Pyongyang was trying to build a uranium-based weapons program, they declared that diplomacy pointless. 
 The hard-liners are right on one thing: No commitment from North Korea should ever be taken at face value. We're not convinced it will ever trade its nuclear capability, even for vastly better diplomatic and economic ties with the world. 
 That is why the emerging deal will require the most transparency and verification possible, including full access to its plutonium production records. The Bush administration must push harder on this. And if North Korea is found cheating, the world will have to impose even tougher sanctions. 
 As we said, it is an imperfect solution. But, presuming the deal isn't weakened even more, it may be the only choice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (76%); TERRORISM (71%); BOILER MFG (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



525 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Sadr City Fighters Lay Defenses Amid Latest Official Efforts at Calm

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and STEPHEN FARRELL; Qais Mizher, Ali Hameed and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
As the cleric Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army fighters squatted in the Sadr City district's main highways on Friday, planting homemade bombs less than a mile from Iraqi and American troops, his political bloc offered on Friday to negotiate with the Iraqi government to end fighting in the area. 
 Posing as municipal workers in fluorescent orange and yellow vests, three militia members -- one masked with a checkered head scarf -- dug holes in one main thoroughfare while wary drivers skirted around them and loose wires trailed across the street every few yards. Nearby, some of the heaviest fighting in weeks broke out late Friday night. 
 The mixed messages, at once conciliatory and threatening, are a hallmark of the Sadr movement, which appears to be gearing up to confront the government both with bullets and at the ballot box in provincial elections this fall. 
 As thousands of Shiites gathered for Friday Prayer, United States and Iraqi troops continued to ring Sadr City, the east Baghdad neighborhood that is Mr. Sadr's Baghdad redoubt.
 In recent days, United States forces have built high concrete blast walls to cordon off Sadr City's government-controlled southern section from the rest of the sprawling district, which remains firmly under the control of the Mahdi Army militia. Within that Mahdi-controlled area, Falah Shanshal, a Sadrist member of Parliament, said Friday that the American and Iraqi government offensive in Sadr City was a ''political war against the Sadrists.'' 
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki insists that the offensive is aimed at criminals and illegal militias, not at the Sadrists in particular. But Mr. Shanshal said Mr. Maliki was using the accusation of criminal activity in Sadr City as a pretext for ''mass punishment'' intended to discourage Mr. Sadr's supporters from participating in the provincial elections. 
 One of the policies Mr. Shanshal singled out for criticism was the decision of the American military and the Iraqi government to introduce to Baghdad's most populous district the blast walls, which have been used to seal off and divide other neighborhoods. 
 The walls are intended to stop Mahdi fighters from infiltrating areas from which mortars and rockets have been fired at the high-security Green Zone, which lies four miles to the west.
 During a tour of several streets in the Mahdi-controlled area on Friday, it was clear that concrete blast walls erected elsewhere in Sadr City had been moved or knocked down. Some were covered with anti-American slogans.
 ''They are just building the walls to cut the city into pieces that are isolated from each other,'' Mr. Shanshal said. ''It has always been a united area.''
 Sadr City is a huge neighborhood, measuring about two miles by three miles, in Baghdad's poorest quarter. Overwhelmingly Shiite, it consists mainly of cheap, poor-quality houses, street markets, shops, mosques and government buildings, and it has filthy, slumlike outlying areas that appear to expand annually in a haphazard manner.
 It is separated from the rest of the city by a canal, and Iraqi or American troops are now stationed in force at the crossing points. On some days they try, with varying degrees of success, to seal off the neighborhood. On others, including Friday, they allow vehicles to enter and leave on some roads.
 Sadr City is now divided into three zones: a small area under American and Iraqi government control; a much larger one under the Mahdi Army militia, where many streets are calm and businesses and grassy recreation areas were open as usual; and in between, a fluid no man's land where much of the fighting is centered and civilians are afraid to venture.
 On Friday, one such front-line area, the main Jamila market, was a charred, half-deserted stretch of shuttered stores, garbage and abandoned vegetable trolleys. The smell of burning was everywhere. Gangs of young men loitered near doorways.
 Only 50 yards from a traffic circle controlled by the Mahdi militia, two American armored vehicles -- one of them an MRAP, for Mine-Resistant Ambush-Protected -- were visible; nervous Iraqi drivers edged between the sides. 
 The Mahdi Army militia, which has flaunted its weapons and two weeks ago could be seen sitting on street corners with rocket-propelled grenades and assault rifles, is now largely invisible, if only to avoid missiles from American helicopter gunships and other aircraft.
 Pro-Sadr graffiti could be seen everywhere, even on the walls of the Rafidain police station, where officers sat passively in the guardroom. 
 Sadrists had banned Western journalists from Sadr City but lifted the prohibition on Friday; they insisted, however, on accompanying them some of the time. 
 The fighting late Friday was in the American-held area; Reuters reported that 132 people had been admitted to Sadr City hospitals Friday evening.
 At the Sadr Hospital in the neighborhood, a number of the patients had been injured by the fighting. A doctor had also been killed on her way to work, said Sihan Zaidan, 35, the chief nurse in the children's ward. 
 Sadrist members of Parliament said that 398 people had been killed in Sadr City and 1,331 wounded, and that 91 houses had been destroyed in the past three weeks. 
 There was no way to verify the numbers, but there have been daily clashes in the area, and in hospital interviews it was clear that many women and children had been wounded, usually as they stood in their doorways, walked to the corner to buy bread or took a breath of fresh air on the roof. 
 Often it was unclear who was responsible for the shootings. While those who are Sadr supporters blamed either the Iraqi government troops or the American military, many people interviewed in a local hospital said they did not know who had shot them.
 Upstairs in the children's ward, Ali Mortada, 3, lay silently on his bed, looking at his aunt, who sat beside him. A bullet tore through his abdomen on Thursday evening as he stood with his father and uncle at the front gate of their house. 
 ''We heard the sound of shooting, but it did not seem so close so we thought it wasn't very dangerous,'' said Khalid Zeda, 28, the uncle. 
 ''We have gotten so accustomed to fighting that even when a mortar hits our neighbor's house, we don't notice,'' Mr. Zeda said. ''We are unemployed, so we cannot stand to be indoors all day -- it is like a prison.'' 
 To reach the hospital, Ali's relatives had to pass through an American checkpoint. They feared they would be shot if they drove, said Mr. Zeda, who added, ''We walked a long way, holding Ali in our arms and holding him up to show him to the American soldiers so that they would let us pass.'' 
 Mr. Zeda said he did not know where the bullet had come from, but he said, ''The Americans should leave, and of course the government is involved, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Men in the Sadr City district shook hands to conclude Friday Prayer. Their cleric spoke against the American presence in Iraq.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



526 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: McCain Camp Planning To Widen Playing Field

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Michael Luo contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's political advisers said Friday that they believed his potential appeal to independents could make him competitive in up to two dozen tossup states, twice as many as Republicans seriously contested in the 2004 presidential race.
 The campaign is working to expand Mr. McCain's electoral map by employing an unusual, decentralized structure in which it will dispatch 11 regional campaign managers across the country, assigning some to traditional closely fought states like Ohio and Florida, others to states they hope to pick up, like Minnesota, and a couple to some less common targets for Republicans, including New Jersey. 
 The McCain campaign, which won the primaries on a shoestring budget, is staffing up now that he is the presumptive Republican nominee. It has around 150 people on its payroll, up from less than 100 last month, and has beefed up its communications division, added a speech writer and brought on board a team of pollsters. And it is working to overcome its fund-raising disadvantage by working in tandem with the better-financed Republican National Committee.
 Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, said the campaign was aware of the ''significant environmental hurdles'' it faced from the bad economy to the low approval ratings of President Bush. But Mr. Davis said the campaign was heartened by polls showing that while an unnamed Republican would lose to an unnamed Democrat by more than 15 percentage points, Mr. McCain remained competitive with the Democrats in polling. 
 The McCain campaign, which has been vastly out-raised by the two Democratic candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, has about $10 million in the bank, Mr. Davis said, and the Republican National Committee has roughly $20 million that can be used to help Mr. McCain in the election. Even if Mr. McCain accepts public financing this fall, Mr. Davis said, that would leave his campaign with enough money to compete.
 The campaign has set up a hybrid campaign committee that will allow individual donors to contribute roughly $70,000 to Mr. McCain's election efforts, far more than the $2,300 maximum that can be given to a general election campaign. 
 Only $2,300 of the money would go directly to the campaign committee, $28,500 would go to the national committee, and nearly $40,000 would be divided among the state parties of four crucial states: Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico and Wisconsin. The McCain campaign is also setting up state-based committees in California, Florida and Ohio. 
 On Friday night, the McCain campaign released its list of bundlers, big donors who have raised large amounts of money. Like the Bush campaign, which dubbed its biggest fund-raisers Rangers and Pioneers, the McCain campaign is also bestowing honorary titles. The campaign announced Friday that it had 73 Trailblazers, who raised $100,000 each, and 33 Innovators, who raised $250,000. The list included former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, who had supported the presidential campaign of former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee; Robert Wood Johnson IV, the owner of the New York Jets football team; and the financier Henry R. Kravis.
 With the election about 200 days away and the Democrats yet to decide on a nominee, mapping out battleground states now is, to an extent, an exercise in fantasy electoral politics. At this point in an election cycle, both parties traditionally make claims about how they can expand their maps in a bit of muscle flexing intended to rev up supporters and donors with theories of how they can obtain the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House.
 The McCain campaign has been showing supporters color-coded maps of roughly two dozen tossup states, along with recent polling showing how it might do in some of those states against Mr. Obama or Mrs. Clinton. 
 While the campaign would no doubt have to fight to hold on to some of the states that Mr. Bush won in 2004 -- especially Ohio, but also Iowa, Nevada and Virginia, for example -- advisers also see opportunities to pick up states that the Democratic candidate, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, won in 2004.
 Those include Pennsylvania, where they think Mr. McCain could appeal to independent voters; New Hampshire, where Democrats have made recent gains; Minnesota, where voters have an independent bent and where the Republicans are holding their convention, and Wisconsin, where Mr. McCain campaigned this week.
 His advisers said Mr. McCain, being from Arizona, could make gains in the West and hold on to the Southwest, even though Democrats have made inroads in some of those states. Mr. McCain even wants to take aim at California, which Republicans have singled out in recent years to no avail; he gave several major speeches there this month.
 Democratic Party officials, though, say they believe that when voters learn more about some of Mr. McCain's positions, like his support for the Iraq war and his opposition to abortion rights, they will turn away from him. They say they believe that they are in a position to make inroads in the electoral map. In an April 10 memorandum to the Democratic National Committee, the pollsters Geoff Garin and Cornell Belcher said the Midwest and West, particularly, were ''in full swing as there are continuing signs that the traditional Republican coalition is collapsing.''
 The drawn-out Democratic primary fight also means that the nominee will have campaigned in, mounted field operations in, registered voters in and advertised in more states than Mr. McCain before the general election campaign begins.
 But some Republicans see Mr. McCain, with a record of sometimes bucking his party and sometimes working with it, as the perfect Republican in a tough year.
 ''I think that by rook or by crook or by providence or just dumb luck, we nominated the one guy who continually outpolls the Republican brand,'' said Todd Harris, a consultant who worked on Mr. McCain's campaign eight years ago and on Mr. Thompson's this year. 
 For now, though, how the electoral map shapes up will in part hinge on the outcome of the Democratic contest. 
 ''We have planned out two general election campaigns,'' said Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Defining the Battleground: Senator John McCain's campaign expects him to be competitive in up to two dozen tossup states. It has circulated maps like the one below, showing its view of the landscape.(Source: the McCain campaign) Chart details shaded areas across US for democratic and republican states. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BUDGETS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008



527 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: All Atmospherics, No Climate

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW. 
Today, Charles M. Blow, graphics director for The Times from 1996 to 2004 and art director of National Geographic magazine from 2006 to 2008, starts as a graphics columnist for the Op-Ed page. His column will appear on alternate Saturdays.

 BODY:
The questioning at Wednesday's Democratic presidential debate has been roundly panned, and rightfully so. The moderators spent about 40 minutes on a trite list of recriminations apparently intended to bait the candidates into a ''Jerry Springer''-like brawl. 
 Barack Obama was again asked to address the kerfuffle he caused by labeling rural voters ''bitter'' and to explain his relationship with the frightening Reverend Wright, and Hillary Clinton was again pushed back on her heels for saying that she had ducked bullets in Bosnia.
 When they finally got around to the issues, they were the same ones that we've heard before: Who would best deal with an economy hobbled by predatory banks giving mortgages to anyone who could sign their names? How can we most quickly exit the Iraq debacle? Who would offer more tax relief for the not-so-poor while imposing the fewest new taxes on the not-so-wealthy?
 Worthy issues all. But one was missing: the environment.
 The League of Conservation Voters, an environmental watchdog group, reports that in the debates in which five Sunday-morning television anchors -- George Stephanopoulos, Tim Russert, Wolf Blitzer, Chris Wallace and Bob Schieffer -- have participated (17 in total) and in their major interviews with the candidates (176 in total) only eight of the 2,372 questions asked have mentioned global warming or climate change.
 That omission is baffling because the environment has become a big issue for Americans. Nearly 6 in 10 people responding to a Pew Research Center poll in January said that protecting the environment and dealing with energy problems should be top priorities.
 Americans have awakened to some simple and frightening realities. The earth is getting hotter. The world's ice is melting. The sea level is rising, and will continue to do so. How much? That's the question. The answer may largely depend on the course America takes, since we have been the most egregious at treating the air like a sewer for carbon emissions. (Although China may already have caught up.)
 Apparently, the moderators didn't get the message. Instead they revived a more trivial issue, allowing a question that called Mr. Obama's patriotism into question for not wearing a flag pin on his lapel. Better to have tied patriotism to the environment and ask whose global warming plan will best ensure that no one will ever have to go to Lower Manhattan and point to the spot in the water where ground zero used to be.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PERCENTAGE OF AMERICANS WHO THINK THESE ISSUES SHOULD BE TOP PRIORITIES FOR THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS (SOURCE: Pew Research Center for the People and the Press) Chart details line graph for dealing with the energy problem and protecting the environment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); EMISSIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%); TIM RUSSERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



528 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Pockets of Poverty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Report on Children Shows Diverse County'' (Westchester and the Region, April 13) emphasized the health care and education burden carried by Westchester County cities. 
 To paraphrase Cora Greenberg, executive director of the Westchester Children's Association, all children need the same building blocks to develop into healthy, educated adults. If families are not economically self-sufficient, then communities must provide this essential foundation.
 In Yonkers, the fourth-largest city in New York State, 18.3 percent of public school children live in poverty. Compare that with Westchester County as a whole, with 8.2 percent. 
 Sixteen percent of public school children in Yonkers are classified as special needs, and 15 percent have limited English language proficiency. 
 That being said, graduation rates increased to 66 percent in 2006, and we anticipate that the 2007 graduation rate, when the figures are released, will have approached 75 percent. This could not have happened and cannot continue to improve without support. 
 County wealth does not translate into city resources. Cities must receive greater resources, both financial and direct services to children and families, to compete with our neighbors. 
 Bernard P. Pierorazio Superintendent of Schools, Yonkers Public Schools Yonkers, April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



529 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Betrayal, Egoism and a Punch Line

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD

 BODY:
Theater depends on closed doors that burst open at the worst possible moments. In her play ''The Scene,'' at Hartford Stage, Theresa Rebeck demonstrates, painfully and hilariously, that you can get both drama and comedy from the unlatching of a single door.
 The door is the entry to an upscale Manhattan apartment cleverly dropped by the set designer, Kris Stone, in front of looming, glittering skyscrapers. And as soon as the Act 2 lights come up on a putatively happily married man engaged in multiple instances of vigorous copulation in the living room while his wife is supposed to be at work, we feel sure we know exactly what's coming. 
 However, once the wife, Stella, makes the expected unexpected entrance, Ms. Rebeck departs from the standard script for these imbroglios. Yes, Stella says the usual things other surprised wives say when they walk in on their husbands in flagrante; and the husband, Charlie, stammers out the typical responses. But Clea, the very young, very blonde, very attractive ditz he's unaccountably brought home, refuses to recognize that she's in the middle of a classic scene and that it has its rules. ''This is horrible,'' she concedes. ''But there's no reason to get all, like, rude.'' 
 Played with delicious comic overstatement by Christy McIntosh, Clea is just bristling with injured dignity, compromising positions notwithstanding. When Charlie tells her to butt out, she pays not the slightest attention. In fact, she says, the mess is all Stella's fault: ''Things were fine until she showed up.''
 Ms. Rebeck's writing is often described as ''sharp,'' and Clea's seemingly addlepated decision to hold her ground in that living room is a perfect example of why. Even though it's evident Clea should be leaving Charlie and Stella to sort through this disaster on their own, it's equally obvious that she's describing the bare facts of the situation with some accuracy. It's the jab of truth that gives this play both its barbed quality and its humor.
 If Ms. Rebeck can make adultery hideous and hilarious at the same time, think what she can do with the far riper subject matter provided by television. Stella, played with crisp authority by Henny Russell, is a talent booker on a talk show -- a job that leaves her railing at the end of each day about star-hungry television producers and ego-tripping stars. Charlie, in the sweetly hangdog person of Matthew Arkin, is an unemployed actor -- which leaves him, at the end of each day, smarting about the deeply humiliating, utterly unnatural acts of self-subjugation required if he is to find work.
 Clea, however, has been molded by television and the very vapidities that drive Charlie and Stella up the wall. In her rollicking but very astute performance, Ms. McIntosh gives Clea steamroller sex appeal combined with a vacant affability; imagine the offspring of Samantha Jones and Mr. Rogers. Not surprisingly, a job in television is Clea's dream, the reason she's left Ohio for New York. She knows the brass ring will eventually come her way if she keeps wangling invitations to the right parties and networking with the right people -- O.K., the right men.
 Stella, Charlie, Clea and their handy friend Lewis (nicely played by Liam Craig) are the only characters we meet in ''The Scene.'' But Ms. Stone's magically shifting set and Miranda Hoffman's varied costumes make us feel as though we, too, have been traipsing through the crowded lofts and packed apartments of Manhattan, slugging down vodkas and making connections.
 Having lived in New York and worked in television, Ms. Rebeck has probably been to those parties and seen her share of Cleas in action. But Jeremy B. Cohen, Hartford's associate artistic director, has opted for overt theatricality rather than realism in this production, a joint effort with the George Street Playhouse in New Jersey. He underlines the comedy rather than the rue, and punctuates the scene changes with surges of sound (by Lindsay Jones) and light (by Robert Wierzel) that put the play's events in bright quotation marks. So when ''The Scene'' comes to its devastatingly harsh conclusion, we're as stunned as Charlie is. He gets his comeuppance, fittingly, with the sound of a door slamming shut. Theater depends on those, too. 
 ''The Scene,'' by Theresa Rebeck, is at Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street, through May 4. Information at (860) 527-5151 or www.hartfordstage.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLAYERS: Above, Henny Russell and Liam Craig and at right, Christy McIntosh and Matthew Arkin star in ''The Scene'' by Theresa Rebeck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. CHARLES ERICSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



530 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 2793 words

HEADLINE: MOVE

 BODY:
HYPERMILING: Steve Chafe's interest in hypermiling started with a $150 speeding ticket. Determined to avoid another one, he became a different man behind the wheel -- one who didn't mind getting to his destination a few minutes later. Until then, his Honda Civic had been getting 22 miles per gallon. The next tank, it got 26. Now it gets as many as 37. ''The changes in my gas mileage were 100 percent a result of my thinking,'' says Chafe, whose Web site, hypermiling.com, exists to spread the word about the art of mileage maximization. ''Hypermiling'' was coined by Wayne Gerdes, a former nuclear-power-plant worker from Chicago whose legendary feats include getting up to 200 miles per gallon in his hybrid Honda Insight. 
Any driver who manages to exceed a car's E.P.A. mileage estimate can call himself a hypermiler, but it helps to have a hybrid, both because the car's dashboard readout provides instant feedback about fuel usage and because it is capable of stratospheric gains. Gerdes's Web site, CleanMPG.com, is a mecca for mileage-obsessed drivers, littered with discussions of braking techniques and ''brag posts'' from drivers who log 100 miles per gallon. ''A lot of hypermilers are guys who would consider themselves -- in a fun, positive way -- geeky,'' says Eric Powers, who runs Hybridfest, an annual gathering of hybrid drivers in Madison, Wisc., that includes an annual ''M.P.G. Challenge,'' where hypermiling records are set. Getting triple-digit mileage requires some fairly complex maneuvers, but the average commuter can reap substantial gains just by avoiding idling, quick accelerations and heavy braking. It also helps to keep your tires well inflated and to be in the habit of going to the farthest errand first, so that your car is warm when you embark on the next one. But the simplest way to save fuel is to observe the speed limit. That alone can increase mileage by at least 12 percent. ''When I had my Geo Metro, I would go 70 or 75 on the freeway,'' says the hypermiler Jerad Parish, who won last year's M.P.G. Challenge by getting 110 miles per gallon in his 2005 Prius. ''Now, I would never, ever do that.'' DASHKA SLATER
 --------------------
 LOW-EMISSION AVIATION: Currently, the world's commercial jets consume more than 57 billion gallons of fuel annually and produce about 2 percent of the world's carbon emissions. Next year, and every year for the foreseeable future, both figures will rise between 2 and 4 percent. And yet Giovanni Bisignani, head of the International Air Transport Association, has a goal: emission-free aircraft technology by the year 2057. How that will be accomplished is a bit of a mystery. ''It's going to take technology that doesn't exist today,'' says Leah Raney, global environmental affairs director for Continental Airlines. In the meantime, airlines are scrambling to conserve fuel (albeit largely because it accounts for a third of their costs). When pilots for Scandinavian Airlines fly into Stockholm-Arlanda Airport, for instance, they coast all the way from cruising altitude to the runway with their engines set on idle, reducing fuel use by about 8 percent per flight. ''If we can save 1 percent of fuel, that's 100 million Swedish krona,'' or more than $16 million, says Niels Eirik Nertun, environmental specialist for the airline. Continental Airlines has spent the past decade searching for efficiencies, even offering incentives to pilots who save fuel. Steps include washing jet engines more frequently to reduce drag and lightening everything from the brakes to the onboard magazines. The airline is also buying 25 new Boeing 787s, whose lightweight carbon-fiber construction promises a 20 percent increase in fuel efficiency. More than 50 other airlines have ordered them. Sir Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Atlantic, has been pushing biofuels, and in February a Virgin Atlantic Boeing 747 flew from London to Amsterdam on a mixture of conventional and biofuels. The surrounding hoopla was a bit premature; only 20 percent of the fuel came from coconut and babassu oil -- the rest was plain old kerosene. But the clock is ticking. Michael Prather, an authority on aviation's impact on the climate, notes: ''It takes 20 years to get the next generation of aircraft in the air and flying. It takes 30 years to get rid of the bad ones. We have to plan now.'' DASHKA SLATER
 --------------------
 WATER WINGS: Earthrace, a sleek and futuristic 78-foot, wavepiercing trimaran, is scheduled to leave the Vulkan Shipyard in Sagunto, Spain, later this month for a second attempt at breaking the round-the-world powerboat record (74 days 23 hours 53 minutes) set in 1998. The skipper, Pete Bethune, from New Zealand, is out to make a point as well as set a record: the Earthrace voyage seeks to be completely carbon neutral. The boat runs on biofuel derived from leftover cooking oil and from soya and canola oils from sustainable sources. The use of biofuel reduces the boat's CO2 emissions by 78 percent, compared with conventional diesel. All of Earthrace's carbon emissions, including those produced by shipping biofuel ahead to various ports of call, will be offset by purchasing credits from downwithcarbon.org. A former oilexploration engineer, Bethune is now a committed environmentalist. He spent years raising funds for the $3 million vessel, which is built in part from hemp and other recycled materials. For the boat's first voyage, in 2006, he and two crew members underwent liposuction, producing 10 liters of human fat -- or enough biofuel to propel the boat 15 kilometers. JEFF STRYKER
 --------------------
 GAS-FREE NATION: In January, Shai Agassi announced that his California-based company, Project Better Place, would help convert Israel into the first gasoline-free car-loving nation. The plan will get rolling with the mass-market introduction of nearly emission-free electric cars, to be made by Renault and Nissan. The Israeli government will offer tax incentives for their purchase. Project Better Place (backed by $200 million in venture capital) will construct up to 200 battery-exchange stations and 500,000 parking spots with charging capacity; then it will lease to drivers the lithium-ion batteries that power the cars. A similar system is in the works for Denmark. Agassi says an electric vehicle that gets 100 miles per charge will bring the public on board. ''We are not trying to build a cool sexy car, or a new model for public transport, or force people to walk to work,'' he says. ''We love our cars; we love our freedom.'' But he wants people to give up gas. To that end, his company will offer subscription plans with incentives, perhaps even a free car to anyone who purchases a long-term ''fuel'' plan. Other monthly plans will be based on kilometers driven. When combined with subsidies to reduce the cost of batteries and a network of plentiful and easy-to-use charging stations, he says, the barriers that have long thwarted electric-car champions will fall. SARAH WILDMAN
 --------------------
 KITE-SAILING TANKERS: The last wind-powered cargo ships sailed around Cape Horn in the 1940s, having been relegated to nostalgic obsolescence by steam and then internal-combustion engines. But if a German company called SkySails succeeds, wind energy will once again power the global shipping trade. Instead of sails mounted on masts, huge, computer-controlled kites flying 1,000 feet over the water will harness the wind. Attached to ships by polyethylene-fiber ropes, SkySails' oval-shaped kites are similar in design to those used by kite surfers and paragliders. With an area of 1,615 to 10,764 square feet, the kites can generate up to 6,800 horsepower and, in ideal conditions, cut a ship's fuel consumption by as much as a third. Ninety percent of global trade in goods is moved by sea, and the high-sulfur diesel fuel used by most of the world's 90,000 cargo ships accounts for an estimated 4.5 percent of the global output of carbon dioxide and 20 percent of the sulfur dioxide. The shipping industry burns 2.1 billion barrels of oil annually. SkySails claims that a universal application of its technology could keep 146 million tons of carbon out of the atmosphere each year. (An American company called KiteShip is working on a cargo-kite concept of its own.) But would that be worth the effort? While shipping's proponents hold that bulk freight by sea is far more efficient by volume than other means of transportation, it has been estimated that the shipping industry's CO2 emissions could increase by a third by 2020. Critics of the kites contend that other projects to reduce emissions could have greater impact and that the sail technology would never work on the largest ships, half-million-ton oil tankers. Still, cargo kites aren't merely a question of green religion; they're also about plain old economics. Fuel costs are at an all-time high, and those savings could help a shipping company's bottom line. To prove the technology's potential, last December a 10,000-ton merchant ship called the Beluga SkySails left the port of Bremerhaven, Germany, for Venezuela. Its engine power was supplemented by a 1,700 square-foot kite. The computer-controlled kite system can cost $395,000 to nearly $4 million, but Stephan Wrage, the inventor and managing director of SkySails (''My friends called me an eco-freak,'' he says), claims it can save around $1,500 or more a day in fuel costs. The ship made the crossing on time and under budget. MATTHEW POWER
 --------------------
 BIKETOWN MELLOW: Johnny, a play on maillot jaune, French for ''yellow jersey,'' was Lance Armstrong's nickname during his Tour de France days. Next month, Mellow Johnny's will be the name of a multiuse facility Armstrong is backing in Austin, Tex., that features bicycle sales and repairs, a cafe, bicycle parking for downtown residents and commuters, spin classes and showers. The old 18,000-square-foot, yellow-and-red-brick building was, in previous incarnations, a Pearl beer distributorship and a homeless center. Armstrong and his general partner, Bart Knaggs, say they wanted to use as much of the existing infrastructure as possible. The showers from the shelter days seemed like an ideal incentive for bike commuters in a city that experiences spring and summer temperatures for much of the year. ''If you want people to ride an hour to work, and their workplace doesn't have a gym and it's 100 in summer,'' Armstrong says, ''you can't go to work that way.'' While Mellow Johnny's is a for-profit endeavor, Knaggs says he hopes that offering ''one bazillion'' bicycle-parking spaces at a nominal fee will have a positive environmental impact. ''It's more about shifting a local mind-set about alternative transportation,'' he says, a nod to the fact that Texans -- even those in this, the most liberal, eco-conscious city in the state -- often feel dutybound to drive even to the corner store. And how does Mellow Johnny's propose to meet its own energy needs? With conventional sources, though pedal power may put a little energy into the grid. ''We're looking for ways to use pedal power so that we can charge up the building a little bit,'' says Armstrong, who, while he has no immediate plans to work the register, might be the one whose r.p.m. runs the espresso machine. SPIKE GILLESPIE
 --------------------
 GHOST BIKES: To judge from ad campaigns and civic initiatives, the solution to climate change is simple: ride a bike, save the earth. The hundreds of ghost bikes throughout the world, however, silently testify to a darker truth. A memorial to a cyclist killed in traffic, a ghost bike springs up in the days after the crash -- never, in the parlance of the cycling activists responsible for the ghost bikes, an ''accident.'' It is spray-painted stark white and chained to a street sign and often bears a commemorative plaque. Unlike the crosses on highway shoulders, briefly noted in a passing blur, ghost-bike memorials are sidewalk monuments meant to spark debate, if not dread. These eerie urban shrines stand as reminders that however free and healthy and green our bicycles make us, the green revolution might actually be a revolution, and revolution can be dangerous. WM. FERGUSON
 --------------------
 THE COMPRESSED-AIR CAR: Guy Negre, a onetime Formula One engineer, has created a car that runs on compressed air. It gets up to 120 miles per tank in the city; you can fill it up in as little as three minutes; its emissions are minimal. A working prototype has been available for more than 10 years. So why aren't we all whooshing around in cars that run on air? Well, Negre's car isn't magic. The engine needs energy to run a generator to fill the car's carbon-fiber tanks. And at speeds greater than 35 miles per hour, the efficiency of the compressed-air engine diminishes, and a fuel-burning heater kicks in. But the engine hasn't been the real challenge; selling the idea has. That task may become easier when the first compressed-air cars hit the road in India, where Negre's company, MDI Enterprises, has finally attracted a powerful business partner: Tata Motors. India's largest carmaker, Tata reportedly paid MDI about $25 million for the exclusive rights to produce and sell their compressed-air technology in India. MDI's business model is as unusual as its engine. The company will not sell fleets of compressed-air cars to drivers, but hundreds of small ''turnkey'' car factories to franchise holders. Shiva Vencat, Negre's associate and a franchisee in the American Northeast, maintains that this removes all middlemen and yields a savings of at least 30 percent. The end product: a locally sourced automobile. There are obstacles -- most notably, the matter of filling the tanks. The 50-cent air pump in the back of a gas station won't cut it. Vencat envisions a series of ''air stations'' not unlike today's Exxons and Sunocos. In this regard, he expresses faith not only in alternative energies but in capitalism as well. ''The invisible hand,'' Vencat says, ''will eventually find a way for air to be sold.'' WM. FERGUSON
 --------------------
 HEAVIER LOADS: In Canada, commercial trucks ply the freeways at a maximum gross weight of 138,000 pounds. But on nearby United States Interstate highways, trucks are generally limited to 80,000 pounds. And while state-level exemptions exist, the United States has one of the lowest weight limits for trucks among developed countries. That's not so good for the environment. Lower weight limits require more trucks to haul the same amount of stuff, driving up congestion, fuel consumption and greenhouse-gas emissions. By 2004, three years after Britain raised its own weight limit from 90,390 pounds to 97,000 pounds, an analysis of data from the British Department for Transport concluded that the move was annually cutting out 83.2 million vehicle miles traveled (v.m.t.) and 149,914 tons of carbon dioxide. And this was before the country completed its shift to bigger rigs; after that, the department predicted, savings could be 27 percent greater. Few such estimates for the United States exist, though a five-year comprehensive study completed by the Department of Transportation in 2000 found that a similar switch could save as many as 8 billion v.m.t. (Heavier rigs might seem more dangerous, but according to a controversial study in 2002 by the Transportation Research Board, accidents could be expected to decline because of the reduction in truck-v.m.t.) One big expense, however, would be infrastructure improvements: bridges would need billions of dollars in upgrades to handle the greater weights. But as last year's Minneapolis bridge collapse shows, the nation's infrastructure is in need of a major overhaul anyway, one that could be financed in part by taxing shippers that move to the higher weight limit. Could it happen? Not likely. A survey in 2003 conducted by the Transportation Research Project, an advocacy group, found that 9 out of 10 Americans oppose higher weight limits, even after hearing the arguments in their favor. CLAY RISEN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SINCLAIR: KEVIN CHRISTY. HYPERMILING: TOYOTA MOTOR SALES, U.S.A. AVIATION: MARC ALARY. WATER WINGS: JIM BURKETT/EARTHRACE. UTILITY BIKES: KONA BICYCLES. TANKERS: SKYSAILS. ARMSTRONG: KEVIN CHRISTY. HEAVIER LOADS: MARC ALARY. GHOST BIKES: FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES. CAR: ZERO POLLUTION MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPEED LIMITS (89%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



531 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Fashioning Skylines, Not a Personality Cult

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
URBAN architecture has taken on a new urgency and relevance in recent years, driven in part by global population growth. In Asia and the Middle East, ambitious buildings are rising with breathtaking speed and to dizzying heights. And Western cities from London to New York are responding with the most significant additions to their skylines in years. 
 Behind many of these new designs is Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates. The New York-based company does not have a celebrity architect at its helm, though it does have 16 globe-trotting principals who have helped to turn the 32-year-old company into one of the world's most prominent firms.
 There is its Shanghai World Financial Center, which, at 1,614 feet high, will briefly lay claim to the world's tallest building when it opens this summer. (The Al Burj in Dubai will leapfrog it later this year.) Its 108-story Hong Kong International Commerce Center is nearing completion and will be the tallest in that vertigo-inducing city. 
 In South Korea, Kohn Pedersen Fox created the master plan for New Songdo City, a 1,500-acre economic business district being built near Inchon, and designed several key buildings. And in Abu Dhabi, the company is behind the sleek headquarters of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, the world's largest sovereign investment fund, and a major international airport scheduled to open around 2012. 
 Two Kohn Pedersen Fox towers will be instrumental in remaking the skyline of London's city center: Heron Tower, a luxury office building designed for the Heron Corporation, and the Pinnacle, a 1,007-foot spiraling glass composition that will be the city's tallest building when it is completed in 2012. 
 In Manhattan, the company is among the finalists vying to create a tower atop the Port Authority bus terminal. In Philadelphia, it designed the recently unveiled American Commerce Center, which will be that city's tallest building and one of the tallest in the United States.
 ''In most large-scale international competitions, K.P.F. is always one of the contenders,'' said Carol Willis, an architectural historian and director of the Skyscraper Museum in Manhattan. 
 The company has come a long way since its founding in 1976 by A. Eugene Kohn, who was the president and chief marketer; William E. Pedersen, the lead designer; and Sheldon Fox, the operations manager. The three had worked together at what is now John Carl Warnecke FAIA, and when they decided to strike out on their own, the economy was in the doldrums. ''We didn't have any work, any business cards -- or any business starting a firm,'' Mr. Kohn, who is now the chairman, said jokingly. 
 But the company founders had moxie. They made a cold call to ABC television and were hired for a Manhattan project converting an Upper West Side armory into a studio and offices, which then led to more than a dozen other jobs with the broadcaster. 
 The firm's design for 333 Wacker Drive in Chicago -- with its green curved glass that mimicked the Chicago River it faced -- won critical acclaim in 1983. 
 From there the commissions grew. Kohn Pedersen Fox picked up business in Europe and opened a London office in 1990. The firm then ventured into Japan, which led to projects in Hong Kong, mainland China and other Asian cities. Today, Kohn Pedersen Fox employs more than 600 people in its two main studios in New York and London, as well as offices in Hong Kong and Shanghai. 
 The firm has designed everything from schools and museums to hotels, but ''the tall building was really part of our DNA right from the start,'' Mr. Kohn said. 
 The company gained a reputation early on for designing buildings that were part of the urban fabric and that encouraged vibrant street life. It has also been among the innovators in tall building technology, using parametric design, a streamlining technique, and high-tech ''printing'' machines that can spit out three-dimensional models. 
 Kohn Pedersen Fox's principals believe that tall buildings and smart urban design are essential to creating cities that can absorb growing populations and promote a more sustainable way of living, particularly in fast-growing regions like China. ''We try to get involved in projects that will be good models for the future,'' said Paul Katz, a principal who oversees work in Asia. ''The high-rise is the building type of the future.'' 
 Lee A. Polisano, the president and a founder of the London office, added, ''It's something we're passionate about.'' 
 Today, two-thirds of the company's business comes from overseas projects. 
 The global practice has helped the firm attract talent -- its employees are from 43 countries -- and generate ideas. ''Architects working around the world bring ideas from other parts of the globe that inform other projects,'' Mr. Katz said. In Japan, where space is at a premium, there is a tradition of maximizing space and minimizing waste, he said. Kohn Pedersen Fox's work in that country has helped it devise elegant solutions in other urban environments, he added. 
 At a time when many architectural firms are grappling with the imminent retirement of their namesakes, Kohn Pedersen Fox has planned for a smooth transition to the next generation. Mr. Kohn five years ago passed the role of president to Mr. Polisano. Now chairman, he and Mr. Pedersen have also given up their board seats. 
 Yet they are hardly kicking back: Mr. Pedersen, who worked with I. M. Pei in his early career, designed the Shanghai World Financial Center, and Mr. Katz remains the preferred partner for many clients. (Mr. Fox, who retired in 1995, died in 2006.) 
 A small team is formed for each new project, led by the principal who originated the business. The team may expand and contract as needed over the course of the project, but the core team sees it through to completion. 
 Kohn Pedersen Fox has had its critical hits -- the 1985 Procter & Gamble headquarters in Cincinnati, the Rodin Museum in Seoul -- and misses, such as the JPMorgan Chase headquarters near ground zero. That building, which was derided by some for its cantilevered bulge design, is unlikely to go forward if Chase moves into the Midtown Manhattan office of Bear Stearns, a company it recently agreed to acquire. 
 Still, it has won the loyalty of its clients. 
 Kohn Pedersen Fox brings ''a nice combination of first-rate design and willingness to work cooperatively with the client,'' said Robert E. Selsam, a senior vice president for Boston Properties. The firm recently designed its second building in Manhattan for the developer, a roughly 900,000-square-foot office building on Eighth Avenue that is still in the planning stage. ''They really are able to deal well with changing circumstances,'' he said.
 In today's market, that's not a bad skill to have. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The chairman, A. Eugene Kohn (left, seated) with associates in New York, and the president, Lee A. Polisano (below right, center), with associates in London. Among the buildings designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox are the Shanghai World Financial Center, rendering above, and the Hong Kong International Commerce Center, below left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ABOVE RIGHT, CRYSTAL DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
SUPERVIEW
 MIKE O'DWYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION GROWTH (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (65%); AIRPORTS (64%); HISTORY (60%)

COMPANY: KOHN PEDERSEN FOX ASSOCIATES PC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



532 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame the War for the Economy

BYLINE: By MARTIN NEIL BAILY. 
Martin Neil Baily, the director of the business initiative at the Brookings Institution, was a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE war in Iraq and the poor state of the economy will probably be the deciding factors in November's presidential election. Many voters view them as cause and effect. In fact, they are two very different messes. 
 The economic case for linking the two is that war has reduced the global supply of oil and pushed its price over $100 a barrel, draining consumers' pocketbooks and adding to inflation. Flush with cash, this argument goes, the oil-producing countries have driven down global interest rates and encouraged over-borrowing in the United States. Meanwhile, Washington has borrowed money to pay for the war, adding to the budget deficit and leaving it with few options to stimulate the economy. The Federal Reserve kept interest rates too low, and for too long, as a way of trying to encourage growth. 
 I am no fan of the war in Iraq, but it simply has not been a major contributor to the financial crisis and the impending recession. The high price of oil is largely the result of strong demand, notably from China and India, pressing against a limited supply. The global oil supply is growing more slowly than it could because of politics and policies in many places -- Russia, Mexico, Nigeria and Venezuela as well as the Middle East. Fears that the turmoil in Iraq might spread have probably given a boost to oil prices, but nowhere near enough to account for the huge price surge. 
 Absent the war, Iraqi oil production under Saddam Hussein might have been somewhat higher, but not by enough to affect the American economy. Iraqi oil production has been very volatile and has experienced a downward trend since the late 1970s, despite its vast potential. 
 One sign that the war in Iraq is not the primary cause of the rise in oil prices is that metals and commodity prices across the board have risen sharply. Surging demand in Asia, coupled with supply that grows only slowly when prices increase, is the main story not only for oil, but for commodities broadly. The sinking value of the dollar has also played a role.
 Back home, our economic fumbles can be primarily tied to the mortgage mess and the big slump in residential construction. Some borrowers lied on their mortgage applications; some originators misrepresented the terms of the loans; financial institutions were making so much money they underestimated the risks they were taking. Investment banks and hedge funds were borrowing at 30-day or even 1-day maturity to finance holdings of risky longer-term assets. The credit-rating agencies failed to assess real risks. 
 And, yes, the Fed and other regulators could and should have done more starting in 2005 to counteract the lowering of mortgage-lending standards and to rein in the banks. But I do not blame the Fed for interest-rate policies that sought to navigate the difficult path of encouraging economic growth while containing inflation. Rather, kudos to the Fed for its recent appropriate and aggressive response to the financial crisis.
 Is government borrowing to blame? Chronic budget deficits are harmful because they increase interest rates, crowd out domestic investment and increase the trade deficit. So, in principle, budget deficits should actually have curbed the housing boom, not fueled it. 
 In practice, budget deficits did not result in high interest rates because of the huge flows of foreign capital into the American economy. The lack of discipline in the federal budget in recent years is deplorable and we will pay for that, especially as we face the costs of an aging population. The failure to pay for the war is part of this policy mistake, but only a part and not a big cause of today's problems.
 Did borrowing to pay for the war prevent the use of fiscal policy to offset economic weakness? Hardly. A sizable and timely economic stimulus package recently soared through Congress and was heartily endorsed by the White House.
 Are the oil-rich countries to blame for sending us so much money, tempting Americans to over-borrow? Well, that seems akin to blaming your favorite restaurant for making you gain weight. The availability of money from around the world did help finance our housing boom. But the bad mortgage-lending and borrowing practices were our own. After all, that flow of capital into the United States has also helped finance American business investment and job creation.
 The war in Iraq has been much more costly than anyone expected, both in lives and money, and it is tempting to wrap it into a single package with our current economic crisis and the policy mistakes that contributed to it. But muddling the messes does not help. Let's judge the war on its own merits, and concentrate on the real causes of the financial crisis. It's the only way to avoid making the same mistakes again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (84%); MORTGAGE LOANS (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); METALS MARKETS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRENDS (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



533 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Recovering From Wyoming's Energy Bender

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA FULLER. 
Alexandra Fuller is the author of the forthcoming ''The Legend of Colton H. Bryant.''

DATELINE: Wilson, Wyo. 

 BODY:
 FOR all its Old West mythology, Wyoming is and always will be a mining state, more roughneck than cowboy. Frankly, in a land of long winters and high winds, there aren't a lot of other economic choices. And a powerful oil lobby reminds us with Orwellian regularity that we owe everything to oil and gas taxes, bullying those who disagree. (In February, a committee of the Wyoming Legislature rejected a spending increase for the University of Wyoming's Ruckelshaus Institute of Environment and Natural Resources after institute scientists dared to raise concerns about water produced in coal-bed methane wells.) Even so, the oilier side of our nature has never threatened to unhorse the cowboy entirely, not even now, when the pressure to develop every last seam of energy is end-of-administration intense. 
 Since 1996, oil and gas companies have leased from the federal government the mineral rights to nearly 27 million acres of land in the Rocky Mountain West, and Wyoming has shouldered the greatest share of that development. In the last decade, oil companies have leased a fifth to a quarter of the state's land -- 15.5 million acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management, as well of hundreds of thousands of acres of national forest and private land. If Wyoming were a country, it would be one of the largest coal-producing nations in the world, and its output of natural gas is among the greatest in American history. The argument has never been that we shouldn't provide energy. But is that all we're good for? And what, if anything, should we leave for future generations? These are global questions posed on a local level.
 During his second term, President Bill Clinton, under pressure from a Republican Congress, leased out just as much of Wyoming's land as the current administration has to date. The difference was that the Clinton administration enforced laws encouraging the Bureau of Land Management to ''manage, protect and improve'' our public lands while allowing for other values like recreation, grazing and wildlife habitat. The Bush administration, on the other hand, has lifted every possible impediment to industry. 
 For example, oil and gas companies are exempt from provisions of the Clean Water Act that require construction activities to reduce polluted runoff as well as from provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act that regulate underground injection of chemicals. The industry is also generously permitted to drill on critical wildlife winter range (close to 90 percent of all their requests to drill on winter range have been granted). Oil rigs are drilling for natural gas on the banks of the New Fork River (the headwaters of the Colorado) and in the foothills of the Wyoming Range. Well sites in many parts of the southern Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem are so closely spaced that, with roads, gas pipelines and compressor stations, the development is continuous. 
 Meantime, drug treatment centers and domestic abuse shelters across the state have declared themselves overwhelmed and, in spite of what the oil companies keep telling us, we're far from happy. Wyoming has the uneasy distinction of having one of the country's highest suicide rates. We top the national death toll on the job with 16.8 deaths per 100,000 workers. Wyoming is responsible for by far the highest percentage of deaths on the job in the interior West's oil and gas industry. At public meetings organized by the Bureau of Land Management to announce the development of Wyoming's public lands, oil company executives initially argued to a largely receptive audience that a new boom would be good for the state's economy. Lately, executives have been telling increasingly unhappy communities that domestic drilling is our moral duty, an alternative to sending more soldiers to war. They imply that anything less than full support for the oil companies is un-American. But a bumper sticker on a pick-up truck hints at the truth: ''The war is over. Halliburton won.'' 
 Meanwhile, cattle and sheep ranchers and hunting and tourist guides have found themselves wondering what has happened to their Wyoming. Wildlife suffers as oil leases overlap with habitat: 14.1 million acres of sage grouse habitat, 3.2 million acres of pronghorn winter habitat, 2.9 million acres of mule deer winter habitat and 1.1 million acres of elk winter habitat. Even most of the state's wild horse herd management areas (the only Wyoming lands on which wild horses may legally roam) are destined for oil development. 
 Eighty-five water wells in the southern Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem have recently tested positive for hydrocarbons, indicating that toxic chemicals from drilling have leaked into the water table. Air pollution in the same area was so great this winter that vulnerable residents were warned not to venture outside. Oil companies argued that strong winds would rectify the problem. 
 They were right to predict a wind of change, but it came in the form of an unprecedented experiment in the art of listening. In the last few months, Terry Tempest Williams, a writer in residence at the University of Wyoming, has taken her students on the road to conduct what she calls ''weather reports'' in small communities. Addressing packed rooms, Ms. Williams turns the microphone over to the people of Wyoming -- a stoical populace whose habitual stance against something they don't like is a tight lip. Astonishingly, they have opened up, voicing their concerns over the rapidity and scale of the oil and gas development. 
 ''One day, I fear I will wake up and all that will be left of Wyoming is a hole in the ground,'' one resident of the southern Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem said. 
 Oil executives have pushed back. One oilman, State Senator Kit Jennings, took the microphone in Casper and declared that Ms. Williams had demonized the oil companies. He rejected her contention in a local newspaper article that the energy boom had helped drive up the use of crystal methamphetamine in the region and announced that he had demanded that she be fired from the university for her criticism of the industry. 
 Oil and gas are accustomed to dominating the debate. But Ms. Williams's forums have created an opportunity for grass-roots rebuttal. Residents, who have so far been cowed by the enormous tax contributions that energy companies make to the state's coffers, are upholding values not counted in dollars. ''My hope is that with our backs against the wall we will finally speak up,'' another weather reports participant said. 
 Maybe Wyomingites, justifiably proud of their roughneck heritage and anxious to keep the oil field work, have realized that this boom isn't going away soon, and they'd like a little of Wyoming left when the oil companies move back to Texas. ''We're Mother Nature's bodyguards,'' a billboard sponsored by Sportsmen for the Wyoming Range warns. ''And yes, we are heavily armed.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); LOBBYING (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COAL MINING (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); METHANE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); WEATHER (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); WILDLIFE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); WATER QUALITY (61%); FUEL TAX (57%); HISTORY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (57%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (96%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



534 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Peace Dividend: Unspoiled Hiking In the Balkans

BYLINE: By BONNIE TSUI

 BODY:
LAST summer, an exploratory group of five hikers walked among the majestic, jagged limestone peaks of Sutjeska National Park, eventually ascending to the top of 7,828-foot Maglic, the highest mountain in the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 There, they enjoyed views of Montenegro, then the newest nation in the world (it is now second to Kosovo, which declared independence in February). Led by Mountain Travel Sobek (www.mtsobek.com), a United States adventure company, the tourists were part of the first American adventure-travel group to explore Bosnia since the Balkan wars of the 1990's tore Yugoslavia apart.
 The main focus of the trip was hiking through unspoiled terrain brightened by wildflowers, said Kevin Wellenius, a 34-year-old economic consultant from Belgrade Lakes, Me., who participated in the inaugural trip. But what made the experience truly special, he said, were the glimpses of traditional village life offered by their forays into the mountains, and the newness of tourism in the region.
 ''We saw no other hikers at all on any of our hikes,'' said Mr. Wellenius. ''And local people seemed as interested in us as we were in them.'' 
 The tourist throngs may have descended on Croatia, its neighbor to the north and west, but Bosnia as an outdoor travel destination remains off the radar to many travelers outside Europe. British companies have been leading trips to the country for a few years, but most Americans still think of Bosnia as a war-torn place; during the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the multicultural city of Sarajevo was the site of an infamous siege that left it in ruins.
 At this time, Mountain Travel Sobek is in the vanguard of American tour companies offering guided outdoor trips to the country, but local tour operators say adventure travel and ecotourism in Bosnia are growing. Though the country is small -- it has about 20,000 square miles, just a bit less than West Virginia -- it is home to a thrillingly diverse landscape of alpine peaks, old-growth forests, highland villages, deep canyons, emerald rivers and, to the south, drier, low-altitude Mediterranean terrain. Five major mountains surround Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, which was host to the 1984 Winter Olympics. On the official Bosnia and Herzegovina tourism Web site (www.bhtourism.ba/eng), there is a section devoted to ''Eco-Adventure,'' touting hiking, whitewater rafting, mountain biking and fly-fishing as among the country's top attractions. 
 Eight years ago, Green Visions (www.greenvisions.ba), a Sarajevo-based tourism and environmental protection company, began leading day trips into the mountains on the outskirts of the city. It proposed a long-term plan for environmentally responsible tourism development in Bosnia, since eco-tourism, its founders say, is one of the best ways to protect natural resources and aid local communities in the process. 
 ''We were all aware that tourism and environmentalism often go head to head, and we didn't want to make the same mistakes that many make in confronting postwar poverty, by selling off resources and degrading the environment, or monopolizing or manipulating the local communities,'' said Tim Clancy, a co-founder of Green Visions. ''This is a gold mine. I tease people here that if this was in the U.S., the entire country would be a national park.''
 Mr. Clancy, who hails from Long Island, went to Bosnia in 1992 as a volunteer, intending to stay for just three weeks, but he has been there ever since. In partnership with a pair of Bosnians, a Dutch friend and another American, he began Green Visions to introduce the idea of linking cultural, historical and environmental preservation with economic development. 
 ''Even today, eco-tourism is a brand new concept here,'' he said. ''The general situation in Sarajevo looks pretty good -- everywhere you look, you see cafes open, and so on -- but people in the mountains need help. As soon as you get outside the city a little bit, people are still quite poor and struggling to get by. If done right, tourism is good because you can employ a lot of people and spread the wealth.''
 For the first few years of Green Visions' operation, most of its clientele consisted of diplomatic and aid workers employed by the United Nations or embassies. Now, Mr. Clancy says, at least 90 percent of Green Visions' customers are tourists, and the company has an established organized-group schedule between May and October, with most tours booking for 10 days. 
 Green Visions partners with British travel companies like Exodus, Explore and Walks Worldwide, and it helped Mountain Travel Sobek develop its current program in Bosnia. For Sobek, which offered trips to Croatia, Montenegro and Slovenia, Bosnia was intriguing as an emerging destination unscathed by the masses of tourists flooding into the rest of Europe. 
 John Yost, Sobek's co-founder, guided the debut departure last year. He said that Bosnia was also vastly different from other states in the former Yugoslavia, particularly Croatia, which has surged back in popularity for its modern, sophisticated coastal scene. ''Bosnia and Montenegro are really still starting out,'' he said. ''They are adventurous destinations in every respect. Of course, when you get there, you can't avoid the impact of the war, and you can't avoid that there was incredible trauma very recently, but you get to appreciate the positive things that have happened since then.''
 Mountain Travel Sobek is offering three 10-day itineraries this summer, with departures on June 25, July 16 and Aug. 13 (the cost is $2,995 per person, excluding international airfare). The trip begins and ends in Sarajevo, visiting major cultural, historical and battle sites, but travelers spend most of their time on moderate hikes, visiting mosques and medieval villages en route, and spending nights at small, locally run hotels. One afternoon is devoted to rafting Class II and III rapids on the pristine Neretva River. The trip employs local guides trained by Green Visions, whose staff has critical knowledge of remote mountain areas that have still not been cleared of land mines. 
 Anne Wood, program director for Mountain Travel Sobek's Europe trips, said that the chief feedback she received from guests on the inaugural Bosnia adventure was that they loved being pioneers in an up-and-coming place. ''Adventure travel doesn't move big chunks of people,'' she said, ''but we can set the example in the national parks where our trips take place.'' The cooperation with local groups and guides, she added, is essential to helping them formulate effective rules that will protect their natural areas for a long time to come. 
 Mr. Wellenius, the pioneer hiker, agreed. ''For me,'' he said, ''this trip felt like a good opportunity to participate, in however small a way, in the economic recovery of a country.''
 Mr. Clancy, of Green Visions, is happy to see more Americans coming to Bosnia, especially independent travelers, though he cites a simpler reason for the draw. ''They've done themselves justice by getting themselves in here,'' he said, ''because this is a really sexy swath of Mother Nature.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hikers look out at Trnovacko Lake from Maglic Mountain in Bosnia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOUNTAIN TRAVEL SOBEK) MAP Map of Sutjeska National Park in the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); HIKING (92%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ECOTOURISM (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); TOURISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); TOUR OPERATORS (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); SPORT FISHING (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (68%); OLYMPICS (64%); CYCLING (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CO (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



535 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: The Joy of Marriage Was Ours, for a While

BYLINE: By TORIE OSBORN. 
Torie Osborn, formerly the executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, is an adviser to the mayor of Los Angeles and several foundations.

 BODY:
GAY marriage was never my issue -- until I actually tried it. A little more than four years ago I stood in the glorious, echoing rotunda of San Francisco City Hall, looking into my partner's eyes and vowing love forever. Little did I grasp then that enthusiastically participating in this sunny rite of passage would expose me to its depressing shadow side. 
 I surprised myself, getting married. I had boycotted the weddings of many straight friends (and political allies in our battle for equality), resenting them as one by one they chose to embrace their privilege, leaving us gays and lesbians stranded.
 In the subsequent years, the gay civil rights movement steadily inched forward, securing a few legal rights for couples that varied state by state. In California, my partner and I signed a benefitless domestic partnership registry in 2001, and then, a scant two years later, we were granted a whole lot of separate-but-nearly-equal benefits involving inheritance, medical issues, adoption and state taxation. It frankly seemed enough for me. I worried that the gay movement's focus on marriage was eclipsing our community's ability to ally with others on the global issues that increasingly fueled my own political passions: namely, environmental sustainability and economic justice. 
 But when Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco started handing out wedding licenses in 2004, my partner and I felt the magnetic pull of history. We not only joined the wedding parade of 4,000 couples streaming to City Hall, we convinced our closest friends, three lesbian couples, to make it a communal experience. Each of the other couples had been together at least 20 years; we were the babies in the bunch, having been together just 6 years. Feminists all, we chose March 8, International Women's Day, as our surprisingly giddy wedding day. 
 As a longtime social activist, I've participated in more than a few acts of civil disobedience, but none more profound and wonderful. There we were in that rotunda, and I found myself flashing back more than two decades to when I lived in San Francisco and City Hall was a daunting symbol of exclusion, a place of regular and rowdy protest.
 I was getting married not a hundred yards from where, in 1978, the city supervisor, Harvey Milk, the first openly gay official to be elected to any substantial political office, was assassinated along with Mayor George Moscone. I was there that tragic night, weeping outside in silence with thousands of others, our candles wavering against the numbing grief. I went back when Harvey Milk's killer got a meager seven-year sentence and our boiling rage at the injustice exploded into a riot: police cars were burned and windows shattered. 
 A social revolution later, my wedding day began at the Los Angeles International Airport at 6 a.m., meeting up with the other couples and our entourage of children and friends. One couple wore matching long white gowns with delicious decolletage that swept away early morning grumpiness. On the flight, our collective exuberance prompted the entire 7 a.m. commuter flight into a rousing rendition of ''We're Getting Married in the Morning.'' Over the loudspeaker, the pilot congratulated ''our gay friends traveling north to get married,'' and we got hugs and tears from every flight attendant on our way out.
 My partner and I had met seven years earlier, WNBA games and long hikes our courtship fare. She was 12 years younger and one year into her surgery residency, a self-described ''domestic monog'' looking to settle down. I had lived alone for 11 years, never ready to commit, so I was reluctant even to live together. But she persisted, and after a couple of years I jumped in with both feet, trading up my condo for a small house we could share. We acquired an eccentric calico cat named Pumpkin and our family was complete. We both had jobs we were passionate about -- she, her surgery residency, and I, executive director of Los Angeles's social-justice foundation before I joined the senior staff for the new mayor, Antonio Villaraigosa.
 Our relationship paralleled a steady unfolding of gay relationship rights: we exchanged rings after that symbolic state registry sign-up, but our domestic partnership started feeling concrete the day we received a letter from California's secretary of the state warning us if we weren't ready for the panoply of rights and responsibilities of legal domestic partnership we should unregister by year's end. 
 We were ready. Life was good. We remodeled the house and built a wonderful life of activism, fulfilling work, poker games, Palm Springs weekends, and annual hiking trips in the Sierras. 
 Consequently, despite not being sold on the all-importance of marriage equality, we happily joined the wedding bandwagon that landed us in the echoing rotunda. That night, when we returned at midnight to our home in Los Angeles, we found the house magically festooned, front and back, in wedding decorations. The friendly elves turned out to be my co-workers, who had sneaked over that day to surprise us and spread the word to our neighbors. As we approached, we saw that a white carpet had been laid up to the front door and was strewn with pink rose petals and anchored by a pile of hastily gathered gifts: Girl Scout cookies from the young twins down the way, a plant from the Christian woman next door, many bouquets of red roses. 
 And then the outpouring really began: over the following weeks, we received hundreds of presents and cards and e-mail messages from just about every corner of our lives. My partner's entire department of mostly male surgeons sent the perfect present for lesbians: a generous gift certificate to Home Depot. My favorite gift came from the staff of a Korean workers' rights group supported by the foundation I ran: two gorgeous, painted wooden ducks, a Korean tradition. We gave them a place of honor in the living room, near the elegantly framed marriage license that had come, appropriately, on rainbow-tinted, luminescent paper.
 The astonishing outpouring of support from our straight friends taught me a profound lesson: getting married is a rite of passage into a wide circle of shared humanity. With a real wedding -- not a commitment ceremony, not a domestic partnership registry -- we were initiated into a crowded circle of people who automatically affirmed our very beings. It was a club we never even knew existed until we joined.
 THEN, four months later, the California Supreme Court annulled the marriages. I was driving on the freeway when I heard the radio news bulletin, and I felt so sick to my stomach that I had to pull off the road. That I'd predicted this outcome made it no less heartbreaking.
 Despite the court's action, our domestic bliss deepened -- we both noticed that things felt different, the bonds more secure.
 Ah, but as they say, there is no real security, and so it happened that one of life's passages shape-shifted into another, sadder one. Three years after the marriage, near our anniversary date last year, my partner announced over a fancy French dinner that she was leaving me. My world collapsed, I entered a dark tunnel, and it has taken me most of this past year to begin to emerge. It turned out to be an embarrassing cliche: I carried her through her residency and the establishment of her career, and now it was supposed to be my turn, but she was moving on. The psychiatrist we consulted called it a ''change in structure of support needs.'' I called it throwing me off a cliff. Of course, breakups are more complicated, but that's how it felt to me.
 True, the court had already dissolved our impromptu marriage and had yet to make definitive law on the issue. Even so, our hard-fought rights of domestic partnership required lawyers and legal proceedings to undo it, just like for straight people. And I am grateful for those laws, as they are meant to protect those like me who, in the end, find themselves to be the financially disadvantaged partner. I couldn't help but note the irony that all my fighting for 30 years for gay civil rights had come down to ... paperwork.
 And my divorce meant I was inducted into yet another circle of (mostly) sisterhood: women left because we married doctors before they finished their residencies. I got a call from a total stranger who had heard my story from a friend and felt compelled to call and gently lecture me in a voice mail message: How had I not known about the legendary ability of surgeons to split off from their feelings? 
 Another friend, a psychologist, leaned forward over dinner and told me about a large study he had seen that documented the prevalence of physicians' postresidency divorce. ''It's a commonly known syndrome in the field of couples counseling,'' he told me with an apologetic smile.
 As for the big picture, the California Supreme Court recently heard arguments on the gay marriage case. It's been four years since magic lit up San Francisco's City Hall and my own life. Despite my personal outcome, I'm still glad for that moment and what it meant. Thanks to a straight mayor's courageous decision, I learned how wrong I was to have settled for near-marriage -- domestic partnership. I'm crossing my fingers in the hope that California follows Massachusetts and decides to replace domestic partnership with real marriage.
 A year has passed since I was forced to experience the dark side of committing to a legally binding union. But the bright side, for me, has been its safety net -- divorce equality. And with steady help from my friends, I was able to stay upright on the horror-ride of grief and ultimately come through stronger and more whole. I have even discovered a new joy stirring in my soul like the sweet eye of a violet; it emerged from the stillness that follows grief. 
 Like many before me I'm a little wiser, a little more self-knowing, deeply chastened but more comfortable in my own skin. Thanks to those domestic partner laws, Pumpkin and I can stay in the house, and I'm beginning to think I may not remain a bitter gay divorcee forever.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID CHELSEA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (79%); WOMEN (78%); BOYCOTTS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (74%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); RIOTS (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (51%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); AIRPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



536 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Those Truly Huge Paychecks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Wall Street Winners Hit a New Jackpot: Billion-Dollar Paydays'' (front page, April 16), about hedge fund managers' pay, was replete with suggestions that their high earnings were evidence of the need for greater regulation. 
 But as the article also indicated, many of these managers earned so much by perceiving better than anyone else that the mortgage-backed securities market was overvalued, and betting against it. The more they did so, the more market pressure was brought to bear to deflate those mortgage-backed securities, helping to bring them back down to earth.
 If we had more hedge fund managers as clever as they are, they would have pressured mortgage-backed securities back down to realistic valuations much sooner and with much less damage. 
 On the other hand, if we had added more regulatory interference with their bets against the hyped-up markets, it would have only prolonged and worsened the eventual damage to the entire economy.
 We desperately need to decrease disparity in incomes, but this would be far better accomplished by raising high-bracket income tax rates, not by trying to over-regulate the profoundly valuable activities that produce that income.
 Bryan Erickson Eagan, Minn., April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



537 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3106 words

HEADLINE: A Star at Toyota, A Believer at Ford

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
 AT a dinner here at the Bellagio hotel about two weeks ago, the ballroom buzzed with 1,400 car dealers fired up for a turnaround at the Ford Motor Company. With fresh products coming and a new ad campaign in place, they were ready to celebrate an attempted comeback by the struggling Detroit automaker. 
 But James D. Farley was hardly in a festive mood.
 He had been on the job as Ford's chief marketing officer for all of six months, lured away from a stellar career with the Japanese juggernaut Toyota to inject similar sizzle into Ford. 
 The dinner capped a four-day summit of Ford's dealers and top executives, and it should have been Mr. Farley's time to shine, to feed off the enthusiasm of dealers eager for good news at Ford.
 Yet as he sat in an empty conference room before his keynote speech, Mr. Farley was introspective. ''How am I doing? You know, I can't answer that question, how am I doing,'' he said. ''It's too complicated.''
 The challenges ahead were too profound for simple answers, he said. The survival of Ford was at stake, and he wasn't about to carry his share of that burden lightly. ''I'm not someone who is going to be smiling a lot,'' he said softly. ''There's just too much to do.''
 As the lights dimmed, Mr. Farley didn't lead cheers or shout slogans. Instead, he spoke from the heart, revealing a depth of passion for Ford that turned the room dead silent.
 He talked about his grandfather, who had gone to work for Henry Ford at the celebrated Rouge plant in 1914; about his first car, a vintage 1966 Mustang; and about the dealers and their families and their livelihoods.
 Like a shy actor blossoming on stage, Mr. Farley became swept up in the emotional power of the moment. ''I believe, in many ways, the future of Ford is the future of our country,'' he said. ''The work here is simply more important than the work I was doing at Toyota.'' When he finished, the dealers rose for a standing ovation that left Mr. Farley momentarily stunned. After the applause died down, he savored the reaction.
 ''These people,'' he said, ''want to believe.''
 But it's not easy to believe in Ford these days. The auto giant, based in Dearborn, Mich., lost a combined $15.3 billion during the last two years, slashing tens of thousands of jobs and shutting factories to balance its shrinking share of the American market.
 Last year, Ford ceded the No. 2 position in sales in its home market to Toyota, and its domestic sales have slid a further 9 percent so far in 2008. Moreover, the company has been forced to sell off prized assets like its Jaguar and Land Rover units, to raise cash for its nascent turnaround.
 ''Ford is at a crossroads,'' said John Casesa of the auto consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group. ''The business has been declining for 30 years, and the competition is only getting tougher. They need to change to the core.''
 Mr. Farley says he grasps that reality quite fully, as well as the tortured path that Ford has been on over the last decade. During an interview, he held out the tip of a finger to illustrate his point.
 ''I cut this finger playing with a model plane when I was 12 or 13,'' he said. ''I didn't really feel it. It was like, that's weird. Then the whole finger came down and I could see the white of my bone.''
 He paused to let the image sink in. 
 ''Some cuts leave a little scar, and some cuts go to the bone,'' he said. ''Ford's experience in the last 10 years went to the bone. My hope is that everyone at Ford never forgets what we went through.''
 FORD'S current makeover started when it reached outside the auto industry two years ago to hire a longtime Boeing executive, Alan R. Mulally, as its president and chief executive.
 Since then, Mr. Mulally has pushed Ford to integrate its far-flung operations around the world. Under the rallying cry of ''One Ford,'' the company is on a mission to globalize product development and accelerate the introduction of fuel-efficient cars in the United States.
 Still, years of counting on full-size pickups and large S.U.V.'s for profits have taken a toll. Rising gas prices and shifting consumer tastes have left Ford with a product lineup ill-equipped to compete with the surging foreign rivals Toyota and Honda.
 Moreover, the Ford brand and its ''blue oval'' badge have lost their appeal to American consumers. Ford's own research shows that while nearly 90 percent of vehicle buyers have a favorable view of Ford as a company, less than 50 percent actually consider shopping for its products.
 ''The most important thing we need to do is get that consideration of purchase,'' said Mr. Mulally.
 For that, Ford has turned to Mr. Farley, whose full tongue-tying duties as group vice president for marketing and communications include, according to the company, connecting ''even more closely with customers through integrated global marketing, advertising, digital communications, brand development, product planning, research, product communications and public relations.''
 A mop of tousled brown hair and a boyish smile lend a disarming youthfulness to a 45-year-old executive who has already put together an enviable track record during his 17 years with Toyota.
 Despite that unassuming demeanor, Mr. Farley is zealous, driven to resurrect Ford's image in the American marketplace.
 ''Intense is a good description of Jim -- incredibly intense,'' said William C. Ford Jr., the automaker's executive chairman and a great-grandson of the founder. ''He feels everything.''
 Before his speech at the Bellagio, Mr. Farley pondered his road ahead at Ford. With domestic auto sales at their lowest point in a decade, he said it was imperative ''that we make every decision right'' on introducing critical new products such as the Flex crossover and the Lincoln MKS sedan.
 The bigger task will be communicating, every day, a sense of urgency. Ford's market share in the United States has fallen to 14 percent at the end of last year from 26 percent in the mid-1990s, and even the 2007 level is precarious in the current economic downturn.
 No one has felt the pain of Ford's steady decline more than Mr. Ford, who was the company's chief executive when he first met Mr. Farley in 2006. At the time, he was seeking a replacement for himself as C.E.O., a search that led to the hiring of Mr. Mulally.
 Mr. Ford also had become intrigued with Mr. Farley and the marketing prowess he demonstrated at Toyota. They met through a mutual friend, and Mr. Farley was immediately drawn to Mr. Ford's intense pride in his company. 
 ''He just cares so much about Ford,'' said Mr. Farley. ''And he puts it in a way that really makes you think about things.''
 THE son of a banker, Mr. Farley was born in Argentina, spent his early years in Brazil and Canada, and eventually attended high school in Rhode Island. Even as he moved around, he retained warm feelings for Detroit, where his mother's family lived. He was particularly close to his grandfather, who worked at the Rouge plant and became a Ford dealer. Their relationship nurtured Mr. Farley's early interest in autos and led his grandfather to nickname him ''Jimmy Car-Car.''
 When he was 14, Mr. Farley spent the summer working in a factory in California that rebuilt Ford engines. He bought his first car there: a jet-black 1966 Mustang hardtop. He then drove it cross-country in two days to a family vacation home in Michigan -- without a driver's license.
 ''I just love cars, always have,'' he said. ''You know, I still can't believe I get paid to do what I do in the auto industry.''
 After graduating from Georgetown University, he earned his master's degree in business administration at the University of California, Los Angeles, and spent two years at I.B.M. before Toyota hired him as a strategic planner in its fledgling Lexus division in 1990.
 Mr. Farley rode the fast track at Toyota. He moved to Europe in 1995 and helped introduce versions of the Yaris minicar and the Corolla compact. He also became obsessed with what cars people drove and why.
 ''I used to walk parking lots all the time, all over Europe,'' he said. ''When I'm in a new situation, my formula is to really find the truth in things, to observe and get close to the truth.''
 The truth, as he saw it at Toyota, was all about the customer -- unlike at some other automakers that let executives dictate what cars to build. 
 ''One of the many things that Toyota does really, really well is that it can put the voice of the customer right there at the table in front of the chairman of the company, in a way that even he can't change it,'' he said. 
 In 2002, he received a dream assignment when he was named head of Toyota's new Scion youth brand. Armed with two quirky Japanese models, the xA hatchback and shoe-box-shaped xB, Mr. Farley set out to make Toyota cool with a new generation of American consumers.
 He embarked on a guerrilla-style marketing campaign and took the funky Scion models to concerts, art galleries and street fairs across the country. 
 He also shunned traditional advertising, instead creating one of the first truly interactive automotive Web sites. When a top General Motors executive dared to publicly criticize the odd look of a Scion, Mr. Farley fired back with attitude to spare.
 ''I couldn't care less about Detroit,'' he said in 2003. ''My prediction is that they will follow us.'' 
 Scion quickly became a successful brand-within-a-brand for Toyota, and a springboard for Mr. Farley.
 ''There was a lot of concern in Toyota on how Scion would do,'' said Dennis Cuneo, a former Toyota manufacturing executive. ''But Jim seemed to have an innate sense of how to market it.''
 Mr. Farley became a corporate star, and his rapid rise up Toyota's executive ranks only fueled his competitive spirit. When the automaker introduced its new Texas-built Tundra pickup, he took aim at the heavyweights Ford and G.M. with a red-white-and-blue ad campaign that made its debut during the Super Bowl. 
 In April 2007, Mr. Farley grabbed Toyota's brass ring -- the group vice presidency of the Lexus division, the best-selling luxury brand in the United States. He also had a home in Southern California, and he and his wife, Lia, had just adopted a baby girl. But Mr. Farley was, in fact, deeply troubled.
 Before the adoption, his wife had given birth prematurely to twins. After a short period, both infants died. In the throes of grief, Mr. Farley questioned his values, his life and his future.
 ''What do I want to be?'' he recalled thinking. ''What do I want my legacy to be? Do I want to spend two weeks in Japan debating the price of a new Lexus, or do I want to make a real difference?''
 MEANWHILE, Mr. Ford and Mr. Mulally were tag-teaming Mr. Farley, trying to persuade him to join Ford. Each time, Mr. Farley politely rejected their overtures.
 ''I was just so scared to leave Toyota because all my friends were there and it's such a wonderful company,'' he said.
 But every entreaty from Ford left him thinking about his grandfather and the workers at the Rouge plant. ''I just could see their faces in my mind, the pride they had,'' he said. ''I wanted to be part of something like that.''
 Finally, he agreed to meet with Mr. Mulally. In late September 2007, a Ford corporate jet en route to China touched down at Los Angeles International Airport. Mr. Mulally stepped off the plane and waited in the lobby of a private hangar.
 ''I was in the outer lobby and I watched Jim get out of his car,'' Mr. Mulally said. ''I remember his hello, his eye contact, his questions, how articulate and genuine he was. I knew right then this was the person I wanted.''
 For his part, Mr. Farley appreciated Mr. Mulally's plan to streamline and stabilize Ford, then expand the business with new cars and crossover vehicles that consumers really wanted.
 ''What Alan showed me was confidence that there was a plan, that he got the fact that product was the key to the whole thing,'' said Mr. Farley. ''Every time I asked him a question, that we peeled the onion, it got more interesting.''
 Mr. Farley jumped to Ford, a move that stunned industry analysts. Those close to him, however, weren't surprised. ''Toyota was a great job for Jimmy, but at Ford it's like he's part of a family,'' said Fran Farley, Mr. Farley's older sister. ''It really was coming home for him.''
 But Mr. Farley gave up a sure thing at Toyota by embracing Ford and all of its uncertainties. 
 ''Jim Farley is a real talent, but it's a heck of a lot easier to sell Toyotas than Fords,'' said David E. Cole, head of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 The Toyota cocoon, with its reputation for quality, safety and reliability, had insulated Mr. Farley from the harsh reality of the American car market. ''I remember telling my wife that in all those years at Toyota when we were gaining market share, I didn't know anyone lost,'' he said. ''I did know, but I didn't know.''
 At his first town hall-style meeting with his extended Ford staff, Mr. Farley opened the session with a gesture that people still remember.
 ''I'd like you to turn to the person next to you, I don't care if it's on the right or left, and pat them on the back,'' he said. Then he laid out his agenda in the simplest terms possible. 
 ''I hope you are ready to save this company,'' he said, ''because that's what I'm going to be doing every minute of every day.'' Ford, he said, ''was at the precipice,'' and had no margin for error.
 In his first weeks at Ford, Mr. Farley pored over the company's product portfolio, sales figures and marketing data. He spent hours with its product development chief, Derrick Kuzak, and concluded that Ford's improvements in vehicle quality and safety were largely unknown and underappreciated by consumers.
 ''Jim kept telling us we have good product but people just didn't know it,'' said John V. Felice, the senior marketing manager for the Ford brand.
 Mr. Farley set up a series of weeklong test drives of Ford vehicles by consumers in select American cities and began filming their reactions. He met with psychologists to study why people had become, in his view, apathetic about Ford.
 ''What made Ford great in the past is that it's a populist brand that democratizes enjoyment and technology for the masses,'' he said. ''You have to talk to people at eye level and show them concrete things that Ford employees are doing so they can trust a Ford product.''
 In January, Mr. Farley brought dozens of Ford dealers to Michigan for an experiment. He split them into groups of five and had them discuss Ford's marketing challenges while Mr. Farley and his managers watched from behind a one-way mirror.
 Dealers attacked Ford's credibility in the marketplace and its lame ad campaigns. ''The reality that the executives in Detroit see is not the reality we're dealing with,'' said Charlie Gilchrist, a dealer from Weatherford, Tex.
 Mr. Farley watched raptly as the dealers dissected Ford's strengths and weaknesses.
 ''I believe that working together is about institutionalizing tension so we can make breakthroughs,'' he said. ''I found it absolutely liberating to see Ford people watch their own dealers struggle with the way to present the company to customers.''
 This led to an ad campaign featuring Ford employees and consumers praising the quality, safety and technology in Ford cars and S.U.V.'s, and an invitation to ''Drive one.''
 ''We needed a transactional campaign where the product speaks for itself,'' said Mr. Farley. ''I mean, don't believe us. Let the product speak to you.''
 Mr. Farley's enthusiasm has proved contagious. He shows up in Ford's engineering labs and design studios at all hours, asking questions and seeking ideas. ''He has set everybody free,'' said Mr. Mulally. ''He's getting the best out of everybody.''
 When dealers asked Mr. Farley to carve out part of the national ad budget for regional campaigns, he approved it. A suggestion from his staff to pump up promotions on the fuel-conscious Focus sedan was given a green light immediately. Such gestures are at odds with Ford's traditions, and Mr. Farley loves it. 
 ''At Ford, it was like the boss was always right,'' he said. ''But it is fascinating how quickly the people I work with were able to shift to where they had their own opinions and expressed them.''
 For the dealer meetings in Las Vegas, Mr. Farley brought 60 Ford engineers along to demonstrate firsthand the innovations under way in Dearborn. And after the Bellagio dinner, he joined dealers to tour exhibits in which Ford engineers showed off the latest air bags, scratch-proof paints and recyclable interior parts.
 Several dealers crowded around a Ford chemical engineer, Angela Harris, as she showed off car seats filled with soybean-based foam. A few dealers from farming communities, she said, asked her for samples to take back home.
 ''Do you know how happy it makes me to see a Ford engineer talking to Ford dealers about soybean foam so they can tell their customers who are farmers?'' Mr. Farley said. ''I mean, how freaking cool is that?''
 ALL intensity aside, Mr. Farley sometimes seems like a kid in a candy store at Ford, as though Jimmy Car-Car has found the ultimate playground. In those moments, his resemblance to his late cousin, the comedian Chris Farley, emerges in the twinkle in his eye. 
 ''Chris and I were very different people, but one thing is we both really believed in what we were doing,'' Mr. Farley said. ''We're very passionate and very creative.''
 That passion will be tested as Ford confronts its future. The reputation and fortunes of Ford, a company that once symbolized American industrial supremacy, have faded precipitously.
 Mr. Farley said he sees the American auto industry in the 21st century as a ''meritocracy,'' in which ingenuity and commitment can turn an also-ran into a leader. ''It's helpful to take the point of view that every day I've got to roll up my sleeves and earn it,'' he said. ''I need -- Ford needs -- that kind of attitude.''
 At the dealer meeting, Mr. Mulally made some concluding remarks. He posed a question to the Ford dealers and executives in the ballroom.
 ''What do you think of our latest new model, Mr. Jim Farley?'' he said.
 Another standing ovation erupted. From his front-row seat, Mr. Farley gave a small wave. What, he was asked later, was he thinking when the applause cascaded over him.
 He reflected a moment. 
 ''What I'm doing at Ford is in one sense a dream come true,'' he finally said. ''But it's also the hardest thing I've ever done. Do I feel comfortable? Absolutely not. Do I try my best? Yes.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about James D. Farley, the chief marketing officer of the Ford Motor Company, referred incorrectly to his grandfather's work history there. While the grandfather was indeed hired by Ford in 1914, he did not immediately work at its Rouge plant. (The plant's construction did not begin until 1917.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ford lured James Farley from Toyota to revive the struggling automaker's marketing efforts. It was a homecoming of sorts: Ford hired his grandfather as a plant worker in 1914. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
The top marketer of Ford said it must ''make every decision right'' for critical products like the Flex, top, and the Lincoln MKS sedan, center. At bottom is the 2009 F-150 Platinum. (pg.BU6)
 James Farley with his first car, a 1966 Ford Mustang, in a family photo believed to be from the 1980s. He bought it when he was 14 and drove it across the country -- without a driver's license. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE FARLEY FAMILY) (pg.BU&) CHART: TURNAROUND TIME: For has lost market share in all of its brands since 2000, but salevs have been up in the last month. (Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MARKET SHARE (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



538 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Skewering Soviet Dogma and Consumerism, Too

 BODY:
It's a tribute to the richness of the Neuberger Museum of Art's collection that a random visit to an exhibition focusing on part of its permanent collection yielded splendid results. In fact, ''Komar and Melamid: Super Objects -- Super Comfort for Super People,'' though a relatively small show for this museum, couldn't be more rewarding.
 The exhibition returns us to a vital, memorable moment in the early 1970s, when a few brave contemporary Russian artists began to rebel against the tradition of Socialist Realism, a style that promoted Soviet political ideology. These artists often turned to conceptual art in defiance of the authorities, their work exhibited secretly in underground clubs and apartments. 
 Vitaly Komar and Alexander Melamid were two Russian conceptual artists who worked collaboratively between 1972 and 2003 under the name Komar and Melamid. Like their peers, they were both trained as painters in the tradition of Socialist Realism, but became increasingly disenchanted with the direction of Russian society and began to re-evaluate their commitment to making art in the service of the state. They became dissidents. 
 Among the first Soviet experimental artists to receive international art world attention, Komar and Melamid were invited in 1977 to have an exhibition at the Ronald Feldman Gallery in New York. They proposed a conceptual art print portfolio combining photography and text, ''Super Objects -- Super Comfort for Super People,'' but the negatives for the project had to be smuggled out of Russia and the photographs printed in the United States because the Soviet authorities refused the artists permission to attend. 
 Today ''Super Objects -- Super Comfort for Super People'' is widely admired as a seminal art project by these two pioneers of the Moscow conceptual art movement, who migrated to the United States via Israel in 1978, the same year their first museum exhibition opened at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford. Since then they have become famous for a variety of conceptual art stunts, including teaching elephants in Thailand to paint abstract art. In 2000, Christie's held an auction of 50 paintings by the elephants; all of them sold, one for as much as $2,100. 
 But back in 1977 the artists had larger world issues in their sights. ''Super Objects -- Super Comfort for Super People'' consists of a portfolio of 36 small color photographs and accompanying English-language text panels describing fanciful Soviet consumer products and devices. Laid out as a playful parody of American home shopping catalogs supplied to the artists by friends living in the West, the consumer products were also divided into 10 categories suggesting some type of self-improvement or self-enhancement. 
 The importance of this project is perhaps not automatically apparent when you enter the gallery here, a cramped auxiliary space in which only a dozen pieces from the original project are hanging. Space constraints prohibited the curator, John Everett Daquino, from putting out the full contingent of the prints, but it doesn't really matter, for what is here is enough to convey the artists' knack for cutting social and political commentary. 
 A particularly arresting photograph shows a young woman with a concave barbecue grill wrapped around her face. This is the ''Charog-15,'' a bizarre-looking item listed under the category of ''Defendibles'' and designed, as the adjoining descriptive panel tells viewers, to protect ''the purity of your thoughts'' and provide ''security against mass hypnosis.'' Here the artists openly satirize the aims and means of Soviet-era political ideology.
 Another product, ''Olo,'' is a tongue ring with a pearl that is meant to act as a ''language ornament,'' helping to ensure that nothing but positive words issues from the mouths of its users, implying, of course, that people in the Soviet Union need to be careful of what they say.
 Other products poke fun at capitalism, including a pedestal designed to provide users with an enhanced sense of self-importance. Called the ''Alton,'' it is a block of wood in the shape of a house brick with a pair of ribbons attached. It is designed to ''free you from the foolish scramble up the ladder of social success.'' According to the accompanying wall text, the device comes with silk or synthetic ribbons and in a variety of rare woods.
 It's safe to say that none of these products were ever manufactured or sold. They are jokes, the artists employing a sly wit to satirize both ideas of mass consumption in the West and the repressive social, cultural and economic situation in Russia during this period.
 But also underlying this project is a broader message, one cautioning viewers living under all political systems to be wary of rhetoric, whether in the form of the seductive jargon of mass consumer advertising or political ideology. 
 ''Komar and Melamid: Super Objects -- Super Comfort for Super People,'' Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, through May 4. Information: www.neuberger.org or (914) 251-6100. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AGAINST THE GRAIN: Komar and Melamid's defiant conceptual art, exhibited secretly in the Soviet Union, got international attention in the late '70s. Top left, ''Alton,'' bottom left, ''Olo,'' and ''Charog-15.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM FRANK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART DEALERS (74%); SMUGGLING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ISRAEL (79%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



539 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Our Favorite Planet

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Imagine if President Bush announced a plan for Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs that declared: They will cease accumulating nuclear weapons by 2025. We will accomplish this through incentives and voluntary action, without mandates.
 Mr. Bush would be ridiculed, but in essence, that's the plan he announced for climate change on Wednesday. He set a target for halting the growth in carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, without specific mandates to achieve that, and in the meantime he blasted proposed Senate legislation for tougher measures as unnecessary.
 Unnecessary? When scientists detect accelerating melting in the Arctic and confidently predict centuries of coastal retreats and climate shifts, endangering the only planet we have? 
 Now let me pause for a special request: If you're a skeptic about climate change, stop reading here.
 That's because the skeptics have mostly made silly arguments -- that climate change is a ''hoax'' -- when there is a much better argument available for them: that the remedies favored by environmentalists, like a cap-and-trade system to reduce emissions, probably won't do the job.
 Three respected climate experts made that troubling argument in an important essay in Nature this month, offering a sobering warning that the climate problem is much bigger than anticipated. That's largely because of increased use of coal in booming Asian economies.
 For example, imagine that we instituted a brutally high gas tax that reduced emissions from American vehicles by 25 percent. That would be a stunning achievement -- and in just nine months, China's increased emissions would have more than made up the difference.
 China and the United States each produces more than one-fifth of the world's carbon dioxide emissions. China's emissions are much smaller per capita but are soaring: its annual increase in emissions is greater than Germany's total annual emissions.
 ''We've gotten this hopelessly wrong,'' said Roger Pielke Jr. of the University of Colorado at Boulder, one of the authors of the Nature article. ''If we approach this from reducing emissions we get nowhere. Driving Priuses may be good, but it's not going to accomplish what we need.''
 Mr. Pielke and his colleagues argue that the best hope for salvation will be investment in new technologies -- and that's why I asked the climate deniers not to read this column, for it can sound a bit like President Bush's ''solution.''
 The difference is that Mr. Bush has used modest investments in hydrogen as a substitute for immediate action, while what we need is vast investments on top of a drive to curb emissions through a carbon tax and a cap-and-trade system. In the best of worlds, it will be enormously difficult to persuade China and India to rely less on coal-fired power plants, and it will be utterly impossible unless we take serious steps ourselves.
 ''The message is, let's change light bulbs and let's be more efficient,'' Mr. Pielke said. ''But let's do more than that. The solution lies in transformational technologies.''
 Solar power is one of the most hopeful technologies but still produces about 0.01 percent of U.S. electricity. The U.S. allocates just $159 million for solar research per year -- about what we spend in Iraq every nine hours.
 Other renewable technologies, including wind power, also merit far more investment; it's appalling that subsidies continue to support oil and coal, and that money should be diverted to renewables. Since 1979, U.S. spending on energy research has shrunk by approximately half, taking inflation into account. Spending on military research, meanwhile, has more than doubled and now amounts to roughly 20 times what is spent on energy research. 
 Then there is geo-engineering, or tinkering with our planet to overcome our past tinkering. One proposal is to inject sulfur dioxide into the stratosphere to mimic the effects of volcanic eruptions in cooling the planet. Another is to fertilize the sea with iron particles to encourage the growth of plants that would suck in carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Then there are more bizarre proposals for giant sunshades to orbit the earth, or for space-based solar panels.
 So the next president should start a $20 billion-a-year program (financed by a pullout from Iraq) to develop new energy technologies, backed by a carbon tax and cap-and-trade system. Each of the presidential candidates favors some form of a cap-and-trade and would mark a step forward from President Bush's passivity -- although John McCain's recent proposal for a summer holiday from the gas tax would be a deplorable step in exactly the wrong direction, unless he hopes to turn his land in Arizona into coastal property.
 The bottom line is that none of the candidates focus adequately on climate change, for this will be one of humanity's great tests in the coming decades -- and so far we're failing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); FUEL TAX (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (79%); ASIA (75%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



540 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: In Ivy League, New Career Path Leads to N.F.L.

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The Brown University campus had been blanketed by a blizzard a few days before Paul Raymond arrived for a recruiting visit four years ago. Many of the people Raymond played football against in Florida hoped to stay closer to home for college. There the Division I powers annually fed dozens of players to the N.F.L. 
 Raymond might have been able to walk on to one of those teams as a slight but speedy receiver from Miami, perhaps with an academic scholarship cushioning the financial burden. But he had never seen snow before, and what Brown lacked in facilities that are the norm at college football powers -- its weight room was outdated and artificial turf practice fields were finally added last year -- it made up for in academic pedigree. 
 ''When I made the decision, I was thinking more of having a good background in terms of having a good degree,'' Raymond, an economics major, said recently. ''The N.F.L. wasn't on my mind.'' 
 It is now. Raymond will be back in Providence, R.I., next weekend working toward his May graduation and hoping, like hundreds of other college football players, that the telephone rings next weekend with news that an N.F.L. team has drafted him. Raymond is the only Ivy League player with a decent chance of being drafted this year. He is projected to go in the final rounds Sunday, if at all. But if he makes a team in the fall -- he will almost certainly be invited to a training camp as a free agent if he is not drafted -- he will join a tiny, but slowly growing football fraternity: Ivy League education, N.F.L. job. 
 Since 1999, the number of Ivy League players on opening-day rosters has held steadily in double digits. Last season, there were 10. It is not much by large-college standards. According to its Web site, Ohio State had 47 alumni in the N.F.L. last season. But in 1996, there were only four N.F.L. players from the Ivies. A decade later, there were 13. 
 The Ivy League has given the N.F.L. a handful of superb players: Chuck Bednarik, Calvin Hill, Nick Lowery and Sid Luckman. But the recent uptick can be traced in part to rules changes by Ivy League universities in the mid-1990s that granted eligibility to freshmen and allowed 12 days of spring football practice every year. If a player spent four years with his team, that would give him 36 extra days of practice to enhance his skills. That is especially important because there is no redshirting in the Ivies.
 The Ivy League's academic standards are strictly linked to those of the student population at large, so coaches have little leeway when recruiting players. But when the rules changes were made, Ivy League teams became more attractive to better high school players who might have taken their N.F.L. dreams elsewhere, said Jeff Orleans, the executive director of the Council of Ivy Group Presidents. The quality of football has improved to the point that coaches now feel they can compete for some players who are being sought by Bowl Subdivision programs, selling the rare opportunity to pursue a prestigious degree while playing good football.
 The Ivies, however, do not play in postseason games.
 ''One of the biggest things that is a hindrance to an Ivy is they only play 10 games,'' said Gil Brandt, the former personnel chief for the Dallas Cowboys who analyzes the draft for NFL.com. ''One of the reasons everybody wants to play in bowl games is it gives them all those days of practice.''
 But the rules changes also signaled an awakening to the importance of athletics in the Ivy League. Orleans said that the Ivies, like almost every university nationwide, have paid more attention to sports, including recreational athletics, in the last 15 years because more students have placed a greater emphasis on physical activity. The pervasiveness of sports on television and the Web -- fantasy football teams are as prevalent on campus as they are in the office -- has made even the most elite universities aware of the way competitive sports can draw the student body together. And successful athletic programs raise the profile of any college, even those competing for the best high school calculus student, if not the best quarterback. 
 ''Eighty-thousand people don't gather around for a chemistry test,'' said Marcellus Wiley, a former N.F.L. defensive end who went to Columbia. 
 Slowly the support for sports has trickled down to improved facilities and to the more sophisticated infrastructure that has been commonplace for years at the nation's most successful college football programs. When Wiley, who now works for ESPN, first went to Columbia in 1992, the weight room, he said, ''looked like a Bally's in a lower-middle-class neighborhood.'' It has since been improved to a level that Wiley said ''was like 'The Jeffersons;' they were moving on up.''
 At Penn, ground will soon be broken on a 30,000-square-foot weight room. Brown has plans for a weight room that will be at least four times as large as their current cramped one. When Al Bagnoli became Penn's coach in 1992, he said no Ivy League team had a full-time strength coach. Now there are strength coaches, nutritionists and sports psychologists. 
 Giants linebacker Zak DeOssie, who starred for Brown, said those changes had Ivy League players and recruits thinking that it was possible to go to an Ivy and advance to the N.F.L. ''People are chasing their dreams,'' he said.
 Still, no matter how many improvements are made, Ivy players face greater obstacles to making the leap to the pros than most Division I players. As a rookie in Buffalo, Wiley thought players from bigger universities were better prepared for the rigors of being a professional athlete: from taking care of their bodies to preparing for road trips to dealing with distractions.
 Even before entering the N.F.L., Wiley said he remembered watching a Miami-Florida State game on television in awe of the mystique of both programs. Until he had to block a player from Notre Dame in a practice for the East-West Shrine Game, he feared that he would be slower and smaller than the players from the big-time programs. DeOssie, a fourth-round pick, said he believed that he performed so well at a scouting combine before he was drafted in 2007 that if he had gone to a bigger university, he would have been chosen in an earlier round. 
 ''We, like most N.F.L. teams, will scout schools at any level if they have a prospect or a suspect,'' Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said. ''If they blend in with that level, it's a red flag. We like to see them stand out. Even better, we like to see them dominate that level.''
 Wiley did dominate, and he was a second-round draft pick in 1997. He, as much as anyone in recent years, might have served as the rare role model for Ivy League players who have held on to their N.F.L. aspirations. 
 ''At other schools, the guys come back,'' Wiley said. ''Ed Reed goes back to Miami and works with the Miami players. I didn't get that opportunity. My teammate was already at Goldman Sachs.''
 It worked out fine for Wiley: He spent 10 years in the N.F.L. and made it to the Pro Bowl. He now lives in the California town where he went to a Columbia alumnus's palatial home when he was being recruited. That visit convinced him an Ivy League education could get him a better life than any N.F.L. player had. 
 More typical is the story of Nick Hartigan, a former all-American running back at Brown. He was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Jets in 2006 but was released in training camp. The N.F.L. dream died for him in Hempstead, N.Y.
 Fortunately, he had a fallback option: He is studying law at Harvard. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Raymond, a receiver from Brown, is probably the only Ivy League player with a chance of being selected in the N.F.L. draft.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEW MILNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); ATHLETES (72%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



541 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Stirring Things Up, Regionally Speaking

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
THE show inspired a fevered debate online as well as angry e-mail and conversations across the country among the major players of the American regional theater. And that was before most people had seen it.
 After a dozen years of performing one-man shows about subjects including the Internet boom (''21 Dog Years'') and the reaction to 9/11 (''The Invincible Summer'') Mike Daisey wanted to proclaim in public what he says actors have been complaining about in bars for years: that the American regional theater is in serious trouble. He puts it more bluntly in the title: ''How Theater Failed America.''
 In his latest show, at Joe's Pub every Monday night through May 11, Mr. Daisey makes a series of provocative arguments about how regional theaters, in pursuit of growth, have lost sight of their original mission: They have put more money into expensive new buildings than grooming and rewarding actors; despite lip service about promoting diversity and community, artistic directors want to keep theater as a luxury item for the wealthy; the importing of actors, mainly from New York, has divorced theaters from their communities. 
 At the core of the show is a sympathetic argument about the treatment of actors. ''Our system makes actors crazy,'' Mr. Daisey said, sitting in his apartment in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn next to his wife and director, Jean-Michele Gregory. ''They are forced to constantly be on the move and tour and tour and tour. In the meantime relationships collapse. They make no money. It verges on a kind of cruelty.''
 Mr. Daisey then went on to puncture the idea that there is nothing to be done about it, dismissing the usual scapegoats: dried-up government financing, philistine audiences, television. Actors, he said, don't have to suffer quite so much for their art. 
 Really? 
 His solution is a return to the repertory model, with theaters maintaining a resident company of performers and giving them steady work. ''Ensembles make work that is better than just shipping in actors,'' Mr. Daisey said. ''They are able to develop a chemistry. Now the buildings get increasingly larger, and there's no artists in them.''
 The idea of a resident company performing a rotating series of classics and new work was an essential part of the original regional theater movement. In her influential 1951 manifesto, ''Theater-in-the-Round,'' Margo Jones, one of the pioneers of regional theater, argued that a permanent company was one of her four ''absolutely inflexible basic policies,'' along with complete professionalism, at least three weeks of rehearsal time and an emphasis on new plays as well as classics. 
 With the decline of government support, artistic directors argue, it is increasingly difficult to finance a permanent group of actors who could play multiple roles. Mr. Daisey doesn't buy it. 
 ''Today the marketing staffs is greater than it ever was when we had resident companies,'' he said. ''Those people all have salaries and health insurance. I just think it's disingenuous to blame funding.'' 
 Kurt Beattie, the artistic director of A Contemporary Theater in Seattle, has been a longtime admirer of Mr. Daisey's and has even presented his work. But he said he was disappointed when he saw ''How Theater Failed America'' in a brief workshop run in February at the Capitol Hill Arts Center in Seattle. 
 ''I love Mike, but I was surprised by how shallow it was and inapplicable to my theater community,'' Mr. Beattie said, adding that even if he wanted to import actors, he could not afford it. 
 To this Mr. Daisey has a modest proposal: Instead of raising money through capital campaigns, theaters should endow chairs for actors that would include a healthy salary and health care. ''I'm sure there must be three or four people who have suffered and worked for years and could be brought on,'' he said.
 Nicholas Martin, who is stepping down as artistic director of the Huntington Theater in Boston in June after eight years, said it would never work. ''The actors you want just aren't available for that long,'' he said. ''Second, the guys who have the money aren't going to give it to a local actor.''
 Mr. Martin said that he had not seen Mr. Daisey's show, but that his agent had sent him an article written by Mr. Daisey that addressed some of its themes and he circulated it to other artistic directors. The response, he said, was mixed. 
 ''I found some of his points very bracing, but the solutions were facile and often naive,'' Mr. Martin said. ''My advice to Mike Daisey is, 'Go run a theater and get back to me.' ''
 Aside from a blizzard of postings from bloggers, Mr. Daisey said he had received hundreds of e-mail messages, most of them supportive. 
 The criticism has not affected his passion, but he said it has helped him refine ''How Theater Failed America.'' He performs his shows without a script, building them through performance with the help of a few notes. In a phone conversation two weeks before the show was due to open, he said that after talking to an artistic director of a major theater about the piece, he was working to add some more context about the ''economic underpinnings'' of regional theater. 
 Mr. Daisey is an unlikely messenger for this cause. Not only is he not an actor -- he calls himself a monologist -- but having toured regional theater for six years, he has been as much a beneficiary of theatrical outsourcing as anyone. 
 ''I feel implicated,'' he said. ''Look, if the regional theater gets healthier, and they don't want us anymore, we would adapt. If they change so quickly that I'm caught unaware, that would be awesome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Daisey rehearsing his one-man show ''How Theater Failed America'' at Joe's Pub in Manhattan, where he is performing the show weekly through May 11. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LUXURY GOODS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



542 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Even a Weak Dollar Can Be Stretched

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
AS strong euros and pounds continue to push the price of European vacations higher for Americans, the best strategy to keep travel costs down may be to hedge. 
 Like portfolio managers who carefully balance out their riskiest investments with safe bets to minimize their exposure to swings in the market, Americans planning trips to Europe this summer can minimize the cost of their vacations, should the dollar drop further, through careful planning now.
 One of the most common ways is to buy an all-inclusive vacation like a cruise or packaged tour. Prices of such trips are typically set as much as 18 months in advance so they can be printed in brochures. Travelers who buy these trips lock in the price of their vacations, essentially shielding themselves from any price increases caused by currency fluctuations. 
 For example, Collette Vacations is offering an eight-day London and Paris package in July for $1,999, or $3,044 with airfare from New York. The dollar has dropped about 15 percent against the euro since the company set those rates more than a year ago. As a result, those customers received a built-in discount. 
 European cruises similarly stretch the dollar, and you can also pay for onboard purchases like spa treatments and shore excursions in dollars. 
 ''If anything, the decline of the dollar has strengthened the attractiveness of an all-inclusive cruise product such as ours,'' Ana Figueroa, director of business development for Amadeus Waterways, wrote in an e-mail message. Already, she added, the company's summer river cruises in Europe are full.
 Uniworld, which owns or operates nine river cruise ships in Europe, said business was up 30 percent. Cruise Holidays, a travel agency franchise that specializes in cruises, said its European bookings were up about 14 percent through March this year compared with the comparable period last year. 
 It's possible to hedge without going the all-inclusive route, simply by prepaying as much as you can -- for things like hotel rooms, airfare and car rentals -- before leaving the United States. 
 ''The more you can buy in advance, the better,'' said Assen Vassilev, co-founder of Lessno.com, an online travel agency that specializes in discount trips to Europe. By prepaying in dollars, he said, ''you're not exposed to fluctuations in the euro'' and travelers can also ''avoid international fees from credit cards or having to pay exchange fees.''
 Over the last year, Lessno.com has begun to offer travelers booking intra-Europe flights the option of viewing and paying for airfare in dollars at the prevailing exchange rate, so that American customers aren't hit with fees for international purchases or penalized with higher exchange rates. This even applies to tickets on Lessno.com from low-cost carriers like Ryanair and easyJet, which typically price flights in euros or pounds. Another site, Europebyair.com offers a similar option. And hotels and tour operators with large American customer bases are rolling out guaranteed dollar rates to help keep costs down. 
 The Leading Hotels of the World, a luxury hotel marketing group, recently introduced guaranteed dollar rates at nearly 60 hotels throughout Europe to help address the ailing dollar. The Hotel Raphael in Paris is offering guaranteed dollar rates starting at $490 a night this summer for a ''superior queen,'' compared with its listed rates starting at 440 euros, or around $700 at $1.60 to the euro. To get the rates, customers must call the Leading Hotels at (800) 223-6800 and ask for discount code L09, and pay in full when booking.
 Worldhotels, a marketing and distribution group for independent hotels, is offering a Stay in Europe, Pay in Dollars deal at more than 50 of its hotels that allows travelers to pay the listed euro rate in dollars. For example, an American traveler booking a stay for 150 euros a night would only pay $150. Bookings must be made from the United States by calling (800) 223-5652. 
 Because airfare can be as erratic as the stock market, knowing when to pull the trigger can mean the difference between a bargain and an overpriced fare. Increasingly, Web sites are offering tools for deciding the best time to book.
 To help evaluate prices, Kayak.com offers its Trend graph, which shows whether prices for a particular flight have been going up, down or holding steady. FareCompare.com displays the lowest prices over the next 11 months for flights to more than 200,000 destinations, including much of Europe. 
 ANOTHER site, Farecast.com, now offers airfare predictions for over 87 European markets, including London, Rome and Amsterdam. In a recent search for flights between New York and London over the Fourth of July weekend, Farecast predicted prices would be likely to rise within the next seven days of the search, while flights from Atlanta to Frankfurt were likely to drop or stay about the same. Over all, fares to Europe this summer are expected to be 10 percent higher than last summer's and cost about $350 more than in May or September, Farecast says. Flying midweek can bring down costs an average of about $55, according to the site. 
 Holding out for sales that sometimes crop up in July or August can also pay off. In 2007, this strategy worked well for flights to London. For example, a plane ticket from Seattle to London last July was about $1,100, according to Farecast, but travelers who waited until late May to buy a ticket saved $200. 
 To hedge against a further decline in the dollar's value, consider buying foreign currency today for your summer vacation. In the coming weeks, Travelex, a foreign exchange company based in London, plans to roll out a prepaid foreign currency card for the American market that can be loaded with euros or pounds and used for purchases and A.T.M. withdrawals. The card, called Cash Passport, will be available at Travelex branches and allows travelers to lock in the exchange rate at the time the card is loaded. While there is a $2 fee for A.T.M. withdrawals, the card doesn't charge currency conversion fees for foreign purchases (typically 1 to 3 percent) as so many credit cards do.
 Travelex and other foreign exchange companies like International Currency Express also let travelers buy a stack of actual euros before their trips. Orders can be placed through their Web sites, with shipping charges of $10 to $15. 
 Of course, if the dollar surges, Americans would do better to wait. However, ''if you like certainty,'' said Jay Bryson, global economist at Wachovia, ''you probably want to buy today. That way, you'll know exactly how much the foreign currency will cost you.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA KUO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); EURO (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); CRUISES (89%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); RIVERS (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (66%)

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (50%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (50%); RYA (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



543 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; BARRELING ALONG; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1833 words

HEADLINE: The Big Thirst

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices rose above $116 a barrel last week, setting another record for the world's most indispensable energy commodity. What was striking about this latest milestone was what didn't happen: there was no shortage of oil, no sudden embargo, no exporter turning off its spigot.
 The weak dollar, worries about terrorism and speculation on commodity markets certainly played a role. But, of course, so did demand. Producers are struggling to pump as much as they can to quench the thirst not only of the developed world, but fast-growing developing nations like China and India, the two most populous countries. To many experts, the steadily rising price underscored longer-term fears about the future of a system that has supplied cheap oil for more than a century.
 ''This is the market signaling there is a problem,'' said Jan Stuart, global oil economist at UBS, ''that there is a growing difficulty to meet demand with new supplies.'' 
 Today's tensions are only likely to get worse in coming years. Consider a few numbers: The planet's population is expected to grow by 50 percent to nine billion by sometime in the middle of the century. The number of cars and trucks is projected to double in 30 years-- to more than two billion -- as developing nations rapidly modernize. And twice as many passenger jetliners, more than 36,000, will in all likelihood be crisscrossing the skies in 20 years.
 All of that will require a lot more oil -- enough that global oil consumption will jump by some 35 percent by the year 2030, according to the International Energy Agency, a leading global energy forecaster for the United States and other developed nations. For producers it will mean somehow finding and pumping an additional 11 billion barrels of oil every year.
 And that's only 22 years away, a heartbeat for the petroleum industry, where the pace of finding and tapping new supplies is measured in decades.
 The pursuit of oil will be just part of the energy challenge. The world's total energy demand -- including oil, coal, natural gas, nuclear power, as well as renewable energy sources like wind, solar and hydro power -- is set to rise by 65 percent over the next two decades, according to the I.E.A. 
 But petroleum, the dominant fuel of the 20th century, will remain the top energy source. It accounts for more than a third of the world's total energy needs, ahead of coal and natural gas. Refined into gasoline, kerosene or diesel fuel, oil has no viable substitute as a transportation fuel, and that is not likely to change much in the next 30 years.
 The problem is that no one can say for sure where all this oil is going to come from. 
 That might not sound like such a bad thing for those concerned about carbon emissions and climate change. High prices might end up forcing people to conserve and encourage the development of alternatives. But the energy crunch might also result in a global scramble for resources, energy wars, and much higher energy prices.
 Some oil executives are sounding the alarm bell. At a recent energy conference, John Hess, the chief executive of Hess Corporation, the international oil company, warned that an oil crisis was looming if the world didn't deal with runaway demand and strained supplies. The chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell, Jeroen van der Veer, said recently, with some understatement, that, ''the energy outlook does not look rosy.''
 For one thing, the world's oil supplies are already stretched. Countries outside of the OPEC cartel -- which have been the main source of new oil discoveries and production since the 1970s -- have said they expect little to no growth this year in oil production. 
 The North Sea and Alaska are slowly running out of oil and producers there are struggling to keep production from falling. Russia's phenomenal oil surge is coming to an end; a top executive of Lukoil, the country's second-largest oil group, said last week that the country's production was unlikely to grow much. Nigeria is battling a violent militancy. And Mexico, the third-most-important supplier of crude to the United States, has been stuck in a crippling political debate over keeping out foreign investors while witnessing a dramatic drop in production that some analysts say may be irreversible.
 What about OPEC? The 13 members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries account for three-quarters of the world's proven oil reserves. But for various reasons, most of those countries are making it harder, if not impossible, for foreign oil companies to invest within their borders. With energy prices rising, OPEC producers are seeing record revenues, which have reduced the incentive to dip into their supplies by boosting production.
 At the same time, major oil companies like Exxon Mobil, BP and Chevron are finding it harder to compete worldwide, as national oil companies erode their once-dominant positions. Fourteen of the world's Top 20 oil companies are state-owned giants, like Saudi Aramco and Russia's Gazprom. That leaves Western oil companies in control of less than 10 percent of the world's oil and gas reserves. 
 Facing higher costs, those companies are also having greater difficulty locating new oil deposits. Despite spending over $100 billion on exploration last year, the five largest international oil companies found less oil last year than they pumped out of the ground.
 A small band of skeptics view today's record prices as evidence that oil supplies have peaked -- that half the globe's oil supply has already been used up. But most experts believe that there are still enough oil reserves, both discovered and undiscovered, to last at least through the middle of the century.
 The problem is that in many corners of the world, geopolitics, more than geology, has removed much of those reserves from the reach of independent oil companies.
 ''There are plenty of resources in the globe,'' Rex Tillerson, the chairman of Exxon, recently told an investor conference. The difficulty, he said, was ''just continuing to have access to all of the opportunities.''
 Over the past century, the world burned through a trillion barrels of oil. Another 1.2 trillion barrels of known conventional oil reserves wait to tapped, according to BP, one of the world's biggest oil companies. It sounds like a lot. But given the current rate of growth in demand, a trillion of those barrels will be used up in less than 30 years. 
 What then? Many analysts estimate another trillion barrels of yet-to-be-found oil remains, but in remote places like the Arctic Ocean where it will be expensive to extract, or in countries that might restrict access. 
 The big oil companies have been in a global dash to find and pump more oil. But it takes time, sometimes a decade, before the first barrels from a newly discovered oil field are pumped and sold.
 What of the alternatives? 
 Corn ethanol, which was sold as a quick fix to the nation's dependency on oil imports, is an imperfect substitute. It is now blamed for driving up food prices while emitting more carbon dioxide and providing a third less energy per gallon than gasoline. 
 It is no panacea either. Even if oil companies can meet the federal requirement to use 36 billion gallons of ethanol by 2022, which many say will be impossible, it would only amount to 10 percent of the country's current oil demand.
 Likewise, the rush to develop heavy oil, tar sands and shale oil reserves, and investments to turn coal into liquid fuels, like diesel, will yield only small amounts of fuel. But their cost to the environment will be much higher than the exploitation of conventional oil.
 Some experts are not quite so worried. They argue that the oil industry is a cyclical one in which higher prices eventually push down demand. ''We're in a bubble right now,'' said Robert Mabro, a well-known oil expert at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. ''Prices are rising because everyone expects them to do so. We've seen the same thing in the real estate market.''
 Still, the growth in oil consumption almost certainly will need to slow in coming years. But it seems unlikely that developing nations will cut their consumption first. China, India and the Middle East are in the midst of exceptional economic booms and need cheap energy, which is largely subsidized by their governments, to keep growing and modernizing. 
 Oil now accounts for just 19 percent of China's energy needs. But China's oil demand is expected to more than double by 2030 to over 16 million barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency, as more people rise from poverty, move out of villages and buy more cars. 
 Just as in the United States, much of the increase in China's oil demand has come from that country's love affair with cars. The number of vehicles in China rose sevenfold between 1990 and 2006, to 37 million. China has now surpassed both Germany and Japan to become the second-largest car market in the world, and is set to overtake the United States by around 2015. China could have as many as 300 million vehicles by 2030.
 William Chandler, an energy expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, estimates that if the Chinese were using energy like Americans, global energy use would double overnight and five more Saudi Arabias would be needed just to meet oil demand. India isn't far behind. By 2030, the two counties will import as much oil as the United States and Japan do today.
 What about the United States? The country has shown little willingness to address its energy needs in a rational way. James Schlesinger, the nation's first energy secretary in the 1970s, once said the United States was capable of only two approaches to its energy policy: ''complacency or crisis.'' 
 The United States is the only major industrialized nation to see its oil consumption surge since the oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s. This can partly be explained by the fact that the United States has some of the lowest gasoline prices in the world, the least fuel-efficient cars on the roads, the lowest energy taxes, and the longest daily commutes of any industrialized nation. The result: about a quarter of the world's oil goes to the United States every day, and of that, more than half goes to its cars and trucks.
 Rising prices and fears about the security of future supplies finally persuaded Congress last year to approve the first increase in fuel efficiency standards in 30 years, raising the average fleet-wide standards by 40 percent to 35 miles a gallon by 2020. The push, which was resisted by American carmakers for years, is underwhelming. The same goal could be reached overnight if everyone drove a Honda: the Japanese carmaker's fleet already averages 35 miles a gallon. 
 ''The country has been living beyond its means,'' said Vaclav Smil, a prominent energy expert at the University of Manitoba. ''The situation is dire. We need to do relative sacrifices. But people don't realize how dire the situation is.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN OSMAN/LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG) (pg.WK1)
 CHARTS: BURNING THROUGH OIL ... OR CONSERVING IT: A breakdown of worldwide oil consumption along with potential solutions for conservation. (CHART BY BILL MARSH.THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); CONSUMPTION (71%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); TERRORISM (57%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



544 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Not-So-Free Ride

BYLINE: By STEPHEN J. DUBNER and STEVEN D. LEVITT. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics.'' More information on the research behind this column is online at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The trouble with negative externalities
 Americans drive too much. This isn't a political or moral argument; it's an economic one. How so?
 Because there are all sorts of costs associated with driving that the actual driver doesn't pay. Such a condition is known to economists as a negative externality: the behavior of Person A (we'll call him Arthur) damages the welfare of Person Z (Zelda), but Zelda has no control over Arthur's actions. If Arthur feels like driving an extra 50 miles today, he doesn't need to ask Zelda; he just hops in the car and goes. And because Arthur doesn't pay the true costs of his driving, he drives too much.
 What are the negative externalities of driving? To name just three: congestion, carbon emissions and traffic accidents. Every time Arthur gets in a car, it becomes more likely that Zelda -- and millions of others -- will suffer in each of those areas. 
 Which of these externalities is the most costly to U.S. society? According to current estimates, carbon emissions from driving impose a societal cost of about $20 billion a year. That sounds like an awful lot until you consider congestion: a Texas Transportation Institute study found that wasted fuel and lost productivity due to congestion cost us $78 billion a year. The damage to people and property from auto accidents, meanwhile, is by far the worst. In a 2006 paper, the economists Aaron Edlin and Pinar Karaca-Mandic argued that accidents impose a true unpaid cost of about $220 billion a year. (And that's even though the accident rate has fallen significantly over the past 10 years, from 2.72 accidents per million miles driven to 1.98 per million; overall miles driven, however, keep rising.) So, with roughly three trillion miles driven each year producing more than $300 billion in externality costs, drivers should probably be taxed at least an extra 10 cents per mile if we want them to pay the full societal cost of their driving. 
 How can this be achieved? Higher tolls, especially variable tolls like congestion pricing, are one option. This seems to have worked well in London but was recently quashed in New York City, where the political hurdles proved too high.
 A higher gas tax might also work. If a typical car gets 20 miles to the gallon, then the proper tax would be about $2 per gallon. But with the current high market price for gas and the political hysterics attached to it -- well, good luck with that one.
 This brings us to automobile insurance. While economists may argue that gas is poorly priced, that imbalance can't compare with how poorly insurance is priced. Imagine that Arthur and Zelda live in the same city and occupy the same insurance risk pool but that Arthur drives 30,000 miles a year while Zelda drives just 3,000. Under the current system, Zelda probably pays the same amount for insurance as Arthur.
 While some insurance companies do offer a small discount for driving less -- usually based on self-reporting, which has an obvious shortcoming -- U.S. auto insurance is generally an all-you-can-eat affair. Which means that the 27,000 more miles than Zelda that Arthur drives don't cost him a penny, even as each mile produces externalities for everyone. It also means that low-mileage drivers like Zelda subsidize high-mileage drivers like Arthur.
 Aaron Edlin first noticed this imbalance more than 15 years ago. ''I was a graduate student at Stanford,'' he says, ''and I drove maybe 2,000 miles a year. But I paid roughly the same $1,000 as if I'd driven 10 times as much, which was a huge portion of my budget.'' A few years later, Edlin was serving on the President's Council of Economic Advisers when he floated an idea that economists had long found attractive: pay-as-you-drive (PAYD) insurance. It seemed like an obvious solution. Since no one expects to pay the same price for, say, a 60-minute massage as they pay for a 15-minute massage, why should people pay the same for insurance no matter how many miles they drove?
 ''The objection within the White House,'' Edlin recalls, ''was there wasn't good academic research on the subject.''
 Edlin and a few others, including Jason Bordoff and Pascal Noel at the Brookings Institution, have since done such research. It makes a compelling case that PAYD insurance would work well, reducing the carbon emissions, congestion and accident risk created by too much driving while leading drivers to pay the true cost of their mileage. Bordoff and Noel put the total social benefit at $52 billion a year.
 The better news is that PAYD insurance is no longer just an academic exercise. G.M.A.C. has begun using OnStar technology to offer mileage discounts, and next month Progressive will roll out a comprehensive PAYD plan called MyRate. Progressive, the huge Ohio-based insurer that has long prided itself as an innovator, will first offer the plan in six states, having run a similar pilot in three other states. Drivers who sign up for MyRate will install a small wireless device in their cars that transmits to Progressive not just how many miles they drive but also when those miles are driven and, to some extent, how they are driven: the device measures the car's speed every second, from which Progressive can derive acceleration and braking behavior. Which means that Progressive will not only be able to charge drivers for the actual miles they consume but will also better assess the true risk of each driver.
 If PAYD is such a great idea, why has it taken so long? There are at least three reasons: the tracking technology has only recently become affordable; insurers were anxious about drivers' privacy concerns; and there was a substantial risk for whichever company was first to offer PAYD on a large scale.
 Participation in the MyRate program is voluntary, and that's where the economics get interesting. As with most incentive changes, there will be winners and losers. The clearest winners are people like Zelda, who can drive the same distance they used to drive and pay less. What's less obvious is whether Progressive will be a winner; there are, in fact, a couple of situations in which Progressive could lose out. If all MyRate accomplishes is to give Progressive's low-mileage customers the rate cut they deserve, then Progressive is doing little more than lowering its own revenues. It could, of course, try to compensate by raising rates on all its high-mileage Arthurs, but then there's nothing to stop Arthur from buying his insurance elsewhere. (Of course, losing its riskiest customers to other companies might also prove profitable for Progressive.) 
 If, however, Progressive can corner the Zelda market by stealing millions of Zeldas from other insurers, then it could make a killing by being the first to sell accurately priced insurance for low-mileage drivers. The bigger goal for society -- and the wild card in this or any incentive shift -- is to create real behavior change. And that is always easier said than done. But if Progressive's PAYD insurance can induce some of its high-mileage customers to drive less and especially to drive more safely, resulting in smaller claims payouts for Progressive and fewer negative externalities for everyone, then it could truly be a win-win-win situation.
 Except, perhaps, for Progressive's rivals. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); EMISSIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); FUEL TAX (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



545 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Loves Meetings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
 JOSIAH BROWN and Sahar Usmani met through the office of international students at Yale. ''The office hosts coffee hours,'' she said, ''and Josiah came to coffee.''
 Having grown up in New Delhi, she had earned a Ph.D. in Malaysia in population genetics and was new to this country, here to do postdoctoral work at a Yale research lab.
 He was associate director of the Yale-New Haven Teachers Institute, which employs Yale faculty to help train public school teachers.
 He was attracted to ''her warmth, her good humor and her earthy, unpretentious qualities.'' 
 She admired his idealism, his commitment to social causes, his civic-mindedness. 
 After getting his Yale degree, he earned a master's in public policy from Harvard. She'd never dated a man who enjoyed city budget meetings.
 That was five years ago, and things happened fast. Within a year Mr. Brown, now 38, and Ms. Usmani-Brown, 34, were married. Within another year they had their first child, Athena, who is 2 1/2, then Isaac, 4 months.
 She was used to staying late at the lab. ''Some experiments involved sleeping in the lab for three nights in a row,'' she said. She loved being out, going to coffee shops and bars. ''I'd never stay home for a single day.''
 He's always found it hard to say no to a good cause. When he was still single, he joined the board of Domestic Violence Services of Greater New Haven. ''I was ignorant of domestic violence issues and wanted to learn more,'' he said. ''I thought it was an area where I could make some difference and raise awareness.''
 He is now board chairman.
 He is also chairman of the Greater New Haven Literacy Coalition.
 He knows, if he isn't careful, that he could be at a board meeting or public hearing every night. ''If we had no children I would certainly go to more community meetings of one kind or another,'' he said. ''The altruistic angle is just a piece of this. The colleagues on these boards, it's rewarding to get to know people.''
 ''My main concern,'' Ms. Usmani-Brown said, ''is I have the kids all day. It would be nice if he got home so I would have an hour or two of down time.''
 Mr. Brown is also a member of their neighborhood association, East Rock Community Management Team. ''We may have five to six meetings a year,'' he said.
 ''How about that teachers' group,'' she said.
 ''There are some ad hoc things,'' Mr. Brown admitted. He belongs to the New Haven schools' community engagement team. ''They meet not quite every month,'' he said. ''Almost every month. I don't go to every single meeting, but most. Things do add up.''
 ''The one we go to with the fund-raiser -- ''
 Friends of the New Haven Public Library.
 ''And you're mentoring,'' she said. ''Did you mention mentoring?''
 ''Yeah, well, I work with several public school students on my lunch break,'' he said.
 ''That's your lunch,'' she said.
 Mr. Brown encourages his wife to join him at meetings, and when their older child was still a baby, they'd take her along. But now Athena gets bored and runs around.
 Also, Ms. Usmani-Brown doesn't have her husband's appetite for meetings. ''They keep going around in circles,'' she said. ''I grow impatient. I'm a scientist, I'm used to staying on point.''
 ''When Josiah gets home,'' she said, ''he concentrates on the kids. Athena needs to be put to bed. Our interaction these days is minimal because of obligations. You know, we enjoy each other's company. If I wanted Josiah to come home late, it would not be a good sign. I want his company.''
 To help them out, her mother, an economics professor in Malaysia, came to stay for several months. But she goes back in a few weeks. ''Oh my God,'' Ms. Usmani-Brown said, ''when she leaves what's going to happen?''
 One recent week, Mr. Brown was out almost every night, although there were signs he was cutting back. Monday, he went to a neighborhood community management team meeting that finished at 8. Tuesday, he had a teacher leadership meeting that ended at 6, then went back to the office until 7. He had hoped to attend a community advisory board meeting for juveniles, but skipped it. ''I sent my regrets, as I have for the last three meetings,'' he said.
 Wednesday, he had a public school community engagement work session over supper until 7. ''There was a miscommunication between Sahar and me,'' he said. ''Her mom cooked. Some regret was expressed that I didn't share in the nice supper.'' Thursday was a literacy meeting until 6:30. ''I wanted to go to the mayor's budget meeting afterwards, but I skipped it to be home for dinner,'' he said. Friday, he worked until 7, so he wouldn't have to go in over the weekend. ''Sahar knew,'' he said. ''It was something we negotiated.''
 ''It's good he's so involved in the community,'' she said. ''But he could be home helping me out.'' At the same time, Ms. Usmani-Brown doesn't want her husband to stop being that person she fell in love with. ''I understand the things he does are an important part of who he is,'' she said. ''I have to remind myself of the bigger picture.'' She mentioned how moved she was the first time she saw his high school yearbook; he'd selected quotes from Susan B. Anthony and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ''For a 17-year-old,'' she said, ''that's quite remarkable.''
 ''I have to remind myself, I've chosen to be home,'' she said. ''It was not forced upon me. It's something I have to live with. I like being with my children.''
 Her goal is to return to work by September 2009, and she's nervous about finding a job. ''I know I might have to start again as an entry-level postdoctorate,'' she said. ''What I would have achieved at 55, maybe now won't be until 60 -- it's O.K.''
 They've discussed how things will have to change when her mother leaves. ''I've told Josiah, 'You're going to have to be here,' and I hope it will happen,'' she said.
 ''If you could just take a break for a while, people will understand,'' she told him. ''And go back when the children are a little older.''
 Mr. Brown nodded. ''One makes choices,'' he said. ''I'm delighted to be married and have kids. One makes sacrifices.''
 ''Once they're older and I'm back to work, it will be easier,'' she said. ''This is just an especially demanding time for us, right?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DAD'S HOME!: Josiah Brown shares time with his family, Sahar Usmani-Brown, Athena and Isaac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (86%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (64%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (53%); BUDGETS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) MALAYSIA (92%); INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



546 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Anatomy of a Collapse

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris is the chief financial correspondent of The Times.

 BODY:
WALL STREET 
 America's Dream Palace. 
 By Steve Fraser. 
 Illustrated. 200 pp. Yale University Press. $22. 
 THE TRILLION DOLLAR MELTDOWN 
 Easy Money, High Rollers, and the Great Credit Crash. 
 By Charles R. Morris. 
 194 pp. PublicAffairs. $22.95. 
 It was 1792, and Wall Street was enduring its first crash. A speculation in government bonds had gone horribly wrong, and a formerly wealthy and influential man named William Duer was being chased through the streets of New York City.
 In the end, he was lucky that the sheriff got him rather than the mob. As a result of his machinations, Steve Fraser reports in ''Wall Street: America's Dream Palace,'' ''real estate prices collapsed, credit dried up, house building stopped.'' The decline spread from businessmen to shopkeepers, widows and orphans.
 Does that sound familiar? 
 With the American financial system apparently threatened by paralysis after an era of easy credit that now seems ridiculous and venal at the same time, Wall Street may be about to endure another of its periodic brushes with public scorn and reprisal. Already we have seen the specter of failed executives being asked to explain to congressmen just why they deserved hundreds of millions of dollars for running their companies into the ground. And there are criminal investigations of mortgage lenders, some of whom are already bankrupt, for luring home buyers into taking out loans they could not hope to repay unless house prices continued to soar.
 The history of American attitudes toward the financiers of Wall Street, as shown in newspapers, novels and prosecutions, is the subject of Fraser's book. It's a remarkable tale, not just for the plain facts of what they did but also for the dramatic swings in their image. Were they heroes or con men, aristocrats or immoral scoundrels? It depended on the era, and to some extent on whether their successes seemed to be enriching the rest of us.
 The prosperity of recent years no doubt reduced public anger at the corporate scandals earlier in this decade, in which some of America's greatest financial institutions profited by enabling Enron to deceive investors; even Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway took in fees for helping an insurance company seem healthier than it was. ''Certainly,'' Fraser writes, ''compared to the aftermath of the crash of '29, Wall Street escaped severe censure for its systematic betrayal of public confidence.'' The moral outrage, he adds, ''seemed tepid compared to what had nearly befallen William Duer.'' But can Wall Street's hold on America's respect continue now, with the credit markets shutting down and the possibility that millions of Americans will lose their homes? Not if Charles R. Morris has his way.
 In his brief but brilliant book, ''The Trillion Dollar Meltdown: Easy Money, High Rollers, and the Great Credit Crash,'' Morris describes how we got into the mess we are in, with bankers making loans that they expected to sell to investors through ever more complex securities. Bond rating agencies and financial insurance companies blessed the process, and Alan Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, cheered, assuring the public that American regulators would not spoil the party. 
 ''When money is free, and lending is costless and riskless, the rational lender will keep on lending until there is no one left to lend to,'' Morris writes. ''You logged in the loans, collected your fees and sold them off to yield-hungry investors. The investors were 'insured.' Your fees were real money. The loans might even be paid off.''
 ''Might'' is the operative word. It turns out that the rational lenders were not so rational. They did not know when to stop, and are now stuck with a lot of bad loans and securities that they cannot sell. Some have gone broke. Morris, a lawyer and former banker, as well as the author of 10 books, thinks that by the time all the losses are toted up, from mortgages to corporate loans to credit cards, the total could hit $1 trillion. And that is before considering some risky areas he thinks are as yet unquantifiable.
 Few writers are as good as Morris at making financial arcana understandable and even fascinating. Confronted with a report by British regulators warning of a ''financial stability level event,'' he explains that the language is ''civil-service speak for a credit-market Chernobyl.'' 
 One of the most important aspects of the financial architecture that is now collapsing was the way it allowed investors to believe they could make perfectly safe investments when they financed very risky loans. Or, as Morris puts it, ''Highly rated bonds magically materialize out of a witches' soup of very smoky stuff.'' He adds, ''Very big, very complex, very opaque structures built on extremely rickety foundations are a recipe for collapse.'' 
 The collapse is now under way. In recent years Wall Street profits were built on leverage and on taking risks that were obscure both to regulators and even to the top managements of the banks themselves. Every three months now, we see banks disclosing huge losses from risks that they had never admitted they were taking. 
 No one -- not investors, not managers, not regulators -- is sure when this process will end. And that uncertainty has created a credit freeze, with lenders reluctant to lend both because they do not know whom they can trust and because they fear they may need the money to cover losses that are yet to materialize. As the recession gathers steam, there are likely to be more corporate failures than there need to be, because credit has gone from virtually free to all but unavailable.
 In recent years, Wall Streeters have often been seen as ''responsible guardians of the public trust,'' wealthy men who could be relied upon to act in the national interest, as J. P. Morgan did in halting the Panic of 1907 when the government seemed powerless to do so. Former chairmen of Goldman Sachs served as Treasury secretary for both of the occupants of the White House in this century.
 As Fraser shows, there has been another view, one that may come to the fore if the recession lingers and millions lose their jobs or homes, while those who brought on the disaster remain wealthy beyond any dream available to normal people. ''By the time of the American Revolution there was already a robust plebeian resentment of the aristocrat as parasite, a privileged nonproducer living off the hard labor of those he lorded over,'' Fraser writes. It has not helped that the financial lords have not always been subtle about their superiority, as when Jay Gould, the robber baron who ran railroads in the late 19th century, boasted he could hire one half of the working class to kill the other half.
 It is one thing to be seen as venal but brilliant, and another to be seen as both greedy and stupid. That is the risk Wall Street now faces. 
 As Fraser says in writing about the aftermath of the 1929 crash, ''Wall Street had proved itself not only ethically challenged and dangerously omnipotent but, more damning than that, omni-incompetent.'' And he continues: ''During the boom years of the 1920s, the white-shoe world of J. P. Morgan had accepted credit for the nation's good fortune and been portrayed as a conclave of wise men. Now, under the new circumstances of economic ruination, that same world was treated as criminally irresponsible, pathetic even, an object not only of censure but of mockery. And there is perhaps nothing more fatal for the life expectancy of an elite than to be viewed as ridiculous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BONDS (79%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); SCANDALS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Wall Street (Book)>; Trillion Dollar Meltdown, The (Book)>; Wall Street (Book)>; Trillion Dollar Meltdown, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



547 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: How Scientific Gains Abroad Pay Off in the U.S.

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT a time of economic belt-tightening, might cheap science from low-wage countries help keep American innovators humming?
 Americans have long profited from low-cost manufactured goods, especially from Asia. The cost of those material ''inputs'' is now rising. But because of growing numbers of scientists in China, India and other lower-wage countries, ''the cost of producing a new scientific discovery is dropping around the world,'' says Christopher T. Hill, a professor of public policy and technology at George Mason University.
 American innovators -- with their world-class strengths in product design, marketing and finance -- may have a historic opportunity to convert the scientific know-how from abroad into market gains and profits. Mr. Hill views the transition to ''the postscientific society'' as an unrecognized bonus for American creators of new products and services. 
 Mr. Hill's insight, which he first described in a National Academy of Sciences journal article last fall, runs counter to the notion that the United States fails to educate enough of its own scientists and that ''shortages'' of them hamper American competitiveness. 
 The opposite may actually be true. By tapping relatively low-cost scientists around the world, American innovators may actually strengthen their market positions.
 ''We shouldn't fear the rise of science in Asia and other poorer countries. We should figure out how to take advantage of it,'' says Patrick Windham, a lecturer in technology policy at Stanford and a former staff member of Congressional science committees.
 Optimism about scientific globalization is a wrinkle on the familiar story of outsourcing. Just as United States companies have contracted out physical production, they can do the same for scientific ''goods,'' which range from formulas and ideas to the results of experiments. 
 In the short-term at least, higher spending on scientists by India and China could create a glut of them in these countries, driving wages down further and making the costs of acquiring science even lower. 
 ''Science is the ultimate global activity,'' says Richard B. Freeman, a labor economist with the National Bureau of Economic Research. ''You can outsource research.''
 Mr. Freeman, among others, questions whether there is a shortage of scientists in the United States. He cites evidence suggesting that American dominance in science will decline over time and that we should worry less about purported shortages at home and more about ''developing new ways of benefiting from scientific advances made in other countries.''
 Of course, scientific knowledge isn't a thing, like a child's toy or an electric motor, so the day may never come when ''science'' can be purchased from a Chinese or Indian catalog. For the foreseeable future, United States companies will need their own highly paid scientists ''to evaluate the purchase of foreign science and to make sense of it in their own labs,'' says Daniel Sarewitz, director of the Consortium for Science, Policy and Outcomes at Arizona State University.
 While the United States is expected to remain the home of choice for the world's best scientists for some time, industry is increasingly striking deals with scientists in developing countries eager for wider exposure.
 Seagate Technology, a leader in digital storage, pays scientists in Singapore to do basic studies, and even benefits from subsidies given those scientists by Singapore's government, making the relationship even more affordable. Seagate runs a research laboratory in Pittsburgh. Roughly 10 to 20 percent of the lab's budget for outsiders goes to scientists working abroad. 
 Benefiting from foreign science isn't new. Last October, the Nobel Prize for physics, for instance, was shared by French and German scientists for their basic discovery of what is known as the ''giant magnetoresistance'' effect, which enables much more digital data to be stored on a disk drive. The breakthrough, by Albert Fert and Peter Grunberg, had essentially no commercial impact in Germany or France. But by using open scientific literature and attending conferences, Seagate found ways to capitalize on the breakthrough, which had been financed by European governments. 
 ''This is a really good example of how foreign scientists help,'' says Mark Re, Seagate's senior vice president for research and head of the company's research center in Pittsburgh.
 Commercializing science isn't easy, which is the main reason that rising scientists from India, China and other countries can't readily achieve business success. In the case of the magneto effect, Seagate engineers ended up using different materials -- at different temperatures -- than the Nobel winners.
 ''We made the big step to get the scientific advance into products,'' Mr. Re says. ''And then we had to manufacture hundreds of millions of them. This is a very different challenge.'' 
 PRECISELY because the gap between basic science and commercial innovations is large, Mr. Hill's postscientific society makes sense to innovators on the front lines. One implication for the future is that the United States ''won't have to import so many scientists,'' says Stephen D. Nelson, associate director of policy programs at the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
 The association, which for decades has generally favored policies to expand the ranks of American scientists, is devoting a portion of its annual policy seminar next month to talk about the ''postscience'' situation.
 Industry, meanwhile, is adapting to a world where scientific goods can come from anywhere -- and fewer scientists work on abstract problems unrelated to the market. ''It is no accident that many corporate labs have fallen apart,'' Sean M. Maloney, executive vice president of Intel, says. ''They were science farms looking for problems.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Seagate Technology's Singapore plant, a worker removing disk platters from an airtight chamber. United States companies are beginning to tap lower-paid scientists overseas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN DRAKE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



548 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE GREEN ISSUE; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 4638 words

HEADLINE: LIVE

 BODY:
CHARGE THYSELF: When Freeplay's windup radio came out in 1996, it set the standard for eco-tech purity. Originally meant to deliver information to isolated populations lacking electricity, the Freeplay was a shortwave radio that ran only on human power. Thirty seconds of winding time produced 40 minutes of listening time. And now it's starting to gain allies in its heretofore lonely battle against the battery (which Americans currently consume at the rate of three billion a year). An Idaho start-up called M2E Power is in the forefront of kinetically charged consumer electronics. Having just secured $8 million in venture capital, M2E (''motion to energy'') expects to introduce a biomechanical-energy harvester within 12 to 14 months -- a device about the size of an iPhone that, when carried by a ''low-active person'' during the course of a couple of days, will generate a charge sufficient to power your cellphone for an hour or two. 
The ultimate aim is a self-charging cellphone. Bad news for the battery industry, yes -- but M2E isn't all about moon-eyed idealism: half of its business model is devoted to military applications. Sony's Odo products, on the other hand, are a line of toys -- camera, music player, etc. -- that run when you crank, twirl or shake them. There are, alas, no plans to sell them. But when they started appearing at future-design shows this year, they resonated deeply with trend bloggers, an influential and conflicted group that is dedicated to ecological correctness but also likes really cute gadgets. No less fantastic is the equally conceptual Bamboo Phone imagined by the Dutch designer Gert-Jan van Breugel. Powered by a hand crank and made of bamboo, it also contains seeds, so a tree will shoot up in the landfill where it's buried. WM. FERGUSON
 --------------------
 GREENER PIT STOPS: Even the most grease-stained ''turnwrench'' acknowledges that auto racing may be difficult to justify in the climate-change era. Driving endless miles around a track for spectacle may soon be looked upon as a capital offense. Nascar and the other racing disciplines are aware of this and are taking steps to prevent a reaction. While ethanol-based fuels may not be the magic bullet that politicians describe when campaigning in Iowa, for motor sports they represent a great leap forward from the leaded gasoline that Nascar phased out just last year. The Indy Racing League (for open-wheel cars, not the stock cars of Nascar) switched to 100 percent ethanol last season. The American Le Mans Series is into the next biofuel generation, with the Corvette Racing team using a cellulose-based blend derived mainly from wood waste instead of corn. Nascar is the big dog, though, and a switch to ethanol would not only be a P.R. coup, but it could also inspire the sport's fanatically loyal and brand-specific fans to look into alternatives to gasoline. Brian France, the C.E.O. of Nascar, says he is looking into moving away from gasoline, despite the great cost of re-engineering the cars' fuel lines. Still, for a sport that is all about going in circles, it's nice to see some new turns. ROBERT WEINTRAUB 
 --------------------
 SWEAT EQUITY: Many people go to the gym to become more powerful. But at California Fitness in Hong Kong, an Asian-based subsidiary of 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, exercisers are actually powering the gym. The program, ''Powered by YOU,'' was conceived by Doug Woodring, a Wharton grad, and Lucien Gambarota, a French inventor, who run an alternative-energy company in Hong Kong. When a member begins to exercise, the machine she uses captures the energy she creates as electricity (which would otherwise be lost as heat) and uses it to run a light above the machine. Gambarota says that a person can produce 50 watts of electricity per hour working out at a moderate pace. ''If you spend just an hour per day on a machine annually, you could generate 18.3 kilowatt-hours of electricity,'' he says. That's the equivalent of powering a three-bedroom home in New Jersey for 14 hours. Since the program made its debut last year, 13 exercise machines have been hooked up; the chain plans to extend the project to its 24 other clubs throughout Asia. ABBY ELLIN
 --------------------
 PETS: Americans spend more than $40 billion a year on their pets, more than the gross domestic product of all but 70 countries. An increasing share of this business is being devoted to helping companion animals tread more lightly on the planet. Jasmin Malik Chua, a correspondent for Treehugger.com, has written about how people can green their pets. ''For many people,'' she says, ''it starts off being concerned about their pets' health, especially after the scares about tainted pet food imported from China. After looking for safer food alternatives, the next step is finding sustainable and renewable products.'' Chua, who lives with her two cats in Jersey City, champions alternative sources like recycled newspapers or wood-waste products in favor of clay cat litter (a byproduct of strip mining). Chua also urges pet owners to substitute odds and ends found around the house for expensive plastic, petroleum-based playthings. ''Dogs and cats don't care how much you spend on their toys,'' she says. And sometimes merely being a responsible pet owner can have hidden environmental benefits. ''Microchipping your pet could be a green act,'' Chua says, noting all the gas guzzled and fliers printed when searching for a lost pet. Carol Perkins typifies the new breed of green-pet entrepreneurs. Her company, Harry Barker, sells dog beds and toys made from hemp and biodegradable poop bags made from soy and corn. Harry Barker's dog beds are stuffed with fibers made from 100 percent postconsumer-recycled polyethylene terephthalate, which itself is made from water bottles and other discarded plastic items. ''The stuffing is eco-friendly and just as fabulous as virgin polyester,'' she exults. JEFF STRYKER
 --------------------
 JUNK MAIL: ''We tend not to use the phrase 'junk mail' because 'junk' is in the eye of the beholder,'' says April Smith, a project manager at Catalogchoice.org, a free online service for consumers wishing to avoid unwanted catalogs. Junk or not, there sure is a lot of it to behold, with Americans receiving an estimated 19 billion catalogs in the mail each year, at a cost of 53 million trees and 5.2 million tons of carbon emissions. (This doesn't include credit-card solicitations or entreaties from charities.) Consumers can also reduce mail by signing up free at the Direct Marketing Association's mail-preference service (DMAChoice.org). The D.M.A.'s efforts are part of the paper and direct-mail industries' attempts to fend off do-not-mail legislation, under consideration in a dozen states, modeled on the federal do-not-call registry. A spokeswoman for International Paper, Amy J. Sawyer, has a different defense: ''The direct-mail industry generates $600 billion in economic activity annually and employs 3.5 million Americans nationwide. Mail helps consumers target their shopping and saves millions of automobile miles per year as people use the mail for everything from catalog shopping to DVD rentals.'' JEFF STRYKER
 --------------------
 NATURAL DEATH: Last summer a crematorium in Bath, England, announced that it would try to reduce harmful emissions by stockpiling the deceased until company burners could be filled enough to justify the 2.5 hour operation -- ''to minimize gas usage as an environmental issue,'' an official wrote. (According to recent estimates, the cremation of a human body releases about 100 pounds of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.) But with the new measures, the officials cautioned, some bodies would need to remain uncremated for a day or so. The reaction? Horror and dismay, despite the good intentions. In the United States, activists have been taking on mainstream burial rites for environmental reasons, too. According to the Green Burial Council, a nonprofit organization in Santa Fe, N.M., the ''death care'' industry uses, in a single year, ''more steel (in coffins alone) than was used to build the Golden Gate Bridge'' and enough reinforced concrete to ''construct a two-lane highway from New York to Detroit.'' Steel and concrete have immense carbon footprints. Irrigating acres of parklike cemeteries or air-conditioning memorial buildings increases the environmental impact. ''People think you're lying there like Vladimir Lenin,'' says Billy Campbell, an E. O. Wilson-quoting physician who is considered a pioneer of the United States' green-burial movement. He began organizing environmentally supportive burials in rural South Carolina in the late 1990s, informed by a strict conservationist's orthodoxy: no harming of plants; shallow graves (to keep the body in the soil's ''living layer''); simple shrouds or even unadorned burial directly into the ground; and a maximum of 100 bodies per acre (as opposed to 800 to 2,000 in most cemeteries). He says his company, Memorial Ecosystems, which he runs with his wife, has performed 100 burials, and he developed the ecological standards of the Green Burial Council's approved providers. His newest site, Honey Creek Woodlands, sits amid 2,100 acres owned by Trappist monks at the Monastery of the Holy Spirit, 20 miles outside of Atlanta. Graves are minimally marked and ecologically restored with sparse adornments like a wild ginger root or indigenous maple sapling. Think of it as a natural necropolis. CHRISTIAN DeBENEDETTI
 --------------------
 PLANT MORE TREES: Every schoolchild knows there is no poem so lovely as a tree. But does everyone know just how green they can be? According to Deborah Gangloff, the executive director of American Forests, a nonprofit conservation group, ''Three trees will sequester one ton of CO2 over a lifetime of 55 years.'' She notes that a carbon calculator on her group's Web site tells you how many trees you can have American Forests plant (for a $1 donation each) to make up for the miles you drive or the fuel you use to heat your home. ''This is a feel-good thing,'' Gangloff admits, ''but we are really planting those trees.'' American Forests programs have planted 25 million trees since 1990. Some trees do more good than others. When it comes to helping the environment, urban trees ''can be 15 times more effective than a tree merely standing in the forest,'' Gangloff says. Dan Burden, who founded Walkable Communities in 1996 in part to promote planting and maintaining trees in urban settings, claims in his booklet, ''Urban Street Trees,'' that ''a single street tree returns over $90,000 of direct benefits (not including aesthetic, social and natural) in the lifetime of the tree.'' Shade trees near residential and commercial buildings can reduce demand for air-conditioning; deciduous trees lose their leaves in winter, allowing the sun's heat through. Researchers have developed models to guide property owners on how to preserve and plant trees strategically to realize the greatest energy savings. The Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, for example, determined the impact of planting shade trees and found that costs of cooling dropped 8 to 18 percent and the costs of heating declined 2 to 8 percent when a residential building was provided with a tree canopy roughly equal to two strategically placed trees. JEFF STRYKER
 --------------------
 DISPOSABLE VS. COTTON: The heated debate over the environmental costs of diapers, a roughly $5 billion business, goes something like this: on one hand, the 25 billion or so disposable diapers used per year in this country are bad because they are made with petroleum-based plastics, account for more than 250,000 trees being cut down and make up some 3.5 million tons of landfill waste that won't decompose for decades. Cotton diapers, on the other hand, now enjoying a resurgence in popularity, cost less over the long run but require vast amounts of energy from the production of cotton, the washing and the distribution. Environmental and industry groups brandishing rival stats and studies have effectively declared a draw. Even an outspoken group like the Natural Resources Defense Council declines to take a trenchant position (''six of one and a half dozen of the other,'' a spokeswoman says). Apparently the only way between the two sides is to do without (which means teaching babies to use a toilet) or adopt some middle-way product like gDiapers, which combine cloth and flushable elements. The late Donella H. Meadows, the founder of Vermont's Sustainability Institute, recognized the conflict long before the carbon footprints of everyday objects were a mainstream concern. ''It's great to try to move our lives in the direction of ecological righteousness, but it's also true that every human activity has environmental impact,'' she wrote in an op-ed article that appeared in newspapers in 1990. In addressing the debate over diapers, she had what may have been the final word. ''From the earth's point of view,'' she said, ''it's not all that important which kind of diapers you use. The important decision was having the baby.'' CHRISTIAN DeBENEDETTI
 --------------------
 COLIN BEAVAN: Last year was a time of intense lifestyle changes for the nonfiction writer Colin Beavan. He carried his own coffee jar to avoid disposable cups, shunned plastics, moisturized with almond oil mixed with beeswax and deodorized with baking soda. He pedaled his toddler daughter Isabella around on the back of a custom-made bicycle rickshaw, while his wife, Michelle Conlin, scootered to and from her job as a financial writer at Rockefeller Center in New York City. The family did without the TV, stereo and air-conditioner. (For the last three months, they unplugged the refrigerator and turned off the lights entirely.) Beavan and his wife made their own yogurt and vinegar, grew window-box herbs and composted food scraps. He lost 20 pounds. But what he calls his ''no-impact'' year, structured to minimize his carbon (and ecological) footprint, was also a fun year. People still came over to play guitar and charades with the family. Now Beavan is eating at restaurants again, but only orders vegetarian and turns down paper napkins. The lights are on in the house, but sparingly. His new sneakers are made from hemp and natural rubber. Even Conlin, who remembers loving to shop, has bought only a few work shirts. Beavan is writing both a book about last year, which is due out in 2009 from Farrar, Straus & Giroux, and a daily blog (noimpactman.com) on a used computer. Coming off the no-impact rules was strange: ''We went to see a Nicole Kidman movie,'' he says. ''I was really excited at first, but then I felt overwhelmed by the noise. We left thinking, Hey, it might be O.K. not to do this again.'' Beavan and Conlin are still carrying their coffee jars: ''The other day, Michelle went to go get a coffee in a disposable cup, but then she stopped them before they put it in the cup,'' he says. ''She came out and said it just felt wrong.'' When I visited their apartment and left the lights on in the bathroom, Beavan got up to shut them off. ''Wasting electricity makes you as bad as Donald Rumsfeld,'' he said, gently. Later, he mused: ''A lot of people think that environmental living is hard or deprives you, but we need to change the system so that it supports environmental choices. The fact is, I liked living in a more durable way.'' TESS TAYLOR
 --------------------
 ECO ANXIETY: Ecological degradation is not only affecting our external landscape; it's also influencing our psychic one. Neologisms paint the picture: solastalgia is the depression caused when your local surroundings are damaged significantly; eco anxiety is a generalized worry about the environment. The therapist Linda Buzzell and the social worker Sarah Anne Edwards have defined another ailment, the Waking-Up Syndrome, and they recently wrote a paper with that title. ''There is an epidemic of anxiety,'' says Buzzell, who is also the founder of the International Association for Ecotherapy. ''People are starting to realize that they can't just blame the government and corporations, that it comes down to their own behavior.'' We've reached a point where a quotidian activity like bagging groceries raises existential questions about our ecological footprint. The six stages of the Waking-Up Syndrome sound a lot like the stages of grief. First comes denial, then a slow acknowledgment. This is followed by despair and anger at the realization that, in the words of Al Gore, ''We didn't ask for it, but here it is.'' LISE VAN SUSTEREN (sister to Greta, the Fox News correspondent) is a prominent psychiatrist whose own eco anxiety began a few years ago as she learned more about global warming. ''One of the things that is true of any type of trauma is that the more you are exposed to it, just like tennis elbow, the worse it gets,'' she says. Van Susteren remedied her anxiety in the same way she might counsel a patient: she managed it. She went to Nashville to train with Gore and now tours the country giving a slide show based on his movie, ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' ''Anxiety is a tricky thing,'' she says. ''You want to be anxious enough to take action but not so anxious that you become paralyzed.'' Jerilyn Ross, a practicing psychotherapist and the C.E.O. of the Anxiety Disorders Association of America, points out that eco anxiety and its related syndromes have not earned official designation in the annals of psychiatry. She does, however, acknowledge that something is going on culturally. ''Somebody came over to my house recently and didn't happen to see our recycling,'' Ross says. ''She said, 'Oh, don't you recycle?' It's as if everybody is judging everybody now. The social pressure is really intense.'' ELIZABETH EVITTS DICKINSON
 --------------------
 SPORTING EFFICIENCY: You might be surprised to know that the National Football League has had an environmental director for 15 years: Jack Groh. He has been with the league since Brett Favre's second season in Green Bay, so he has credibility when he says the league's efforts are ''not done as a P.R. stunt.'' Rather, the attitude is that, as Groh says, ''the league would be better off in its bottom line'' using green principles. Groh oversees Super Bowl projects -- like a reforestation program in Arizona -- but he hasn't persuaded the N.F.L. to establish green practices for its teams. Major League Baseball, however, has just done so, a fact that irks Groh: ''After 15 years, that should have been us.'' M.L.B. collaborated with the Natural Resources Defense Council to draw up a comprehensive program for its franchises. Reducing the environmental impact of its travel and reducing the use of unrecycled paper are primary elements; how they will be enforced is unclear. In the National Hockey League, the Players' Association has teamed up with the David Suzuki Foundation, which created a carbon-offsets program for skaters. In the land of the Kyoto Protocol, Japanese professional baseball has enacted rules to speed up the games, shortening the time between innings, half innings and each pitch. The goal is to lop 12 minutes from each game, saving harmful emissions produced as a result of powering the stadiums. If only Groh could persuade the N.F.L. to eliminate a TV timeout or two. . . . ROBERT WEINTRAUB
 --------------------
 URBAN FARMING: Jules Dervaes and three of his adult children live on one-fifth of an acre in Pasadena, Calif., a block away from a multilane highway. On this tiny sliver of land, they manage to be mostly self-sufficient. ''This is our form of protest,'' says Dervaes, who is 60, ''and this is our form of survival.'' The family harvests 6,000 pounds and more than 350 separate varieties of fruits, vegetables and edible flowers annually. They brew the biodiesel fuel that powers the family car. Solar panels on their roof reduce energy bills to as little as $12 a month. Goats, chickens, ducks and two rescued cats are in residence. Red wiggler worms turn the kitchen and garden waste into compost, which is then recycled back into the garden. Dervaes's father worked for Standard Oil, but his son took a markedly different path. Dervaes moved into his current Pasadena home in 1985 -- temporarily, he thought. As the years passed and his hopes of relocating to the country were delayed, he ''decided that he wanted to see how much we could grow here,'' says his 33-year-old daughter, Anais. The family generates cash for their limited expenses by selling produce to local restaurants. Though Dervaes and his children are accustomed to the neighbors' strange looks at their crowded lot, the local chefs don't seem to share the skepticism. ''They'll call me in the morning and pick the amount that I need for that night,'' says Jim McCardy, who owns Marstons, a restaurant in Pasadena. ''The flavor is just incredible.'' CHARLES WILSON
 --------------------
 KATEY WALTER: Over the past few years, Katey Walter, a professor at the University of Alaska, has quickly made a name for herself -- she's only 32 -- by publishing papers in the journals Science and Nature on methane emissions in Alaska and Siberia, where she spends several months each year doing field research. The atmospheric concentration of methane (CH4) is far below that of carbon dioxide (CO2), yet it is 25 times more potent over a hundred years as a greenhouse gas -- and last year concentrations started rising after about a decade of holding steady. ''Our projections suggest that as the Siberian permafrost thaws, and lakes form and expand there,'' Walter says, ''the amount of methane coming out of that process is equal to 10 times the amount of methane now in our atmosphere.'' Walter says that most of the methane in the atmosphere, about 60 percent, comes from us -- from our landfills, livestock herds, rice farms and energy development (methane is in natural gas, which occasionally leaks from pipelines and wells). The other 40 percent comes from nature. When dead plants and animals decompose on the forest floor, they produce carbon dioxide. When they decompose under water, methane is the byproduct. If you've ever watched bubbles coming up from the La Brea tar pits on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles, you've seen methane burps. Siberia's permafrost holds vast stores of ancient (and frozen) plant and animal matter; should that matter decompose under melting ice, there would be extensive burping. Another worry: warmer climates might allow ''seeps'' of additional methane stored deep in the earth's crust. ''The question is whether the permafrost acts as a lid'' and keeps these huge natural reserves from escaping, Walter says. So the fundamental goal is keeping the planet cool and the permafrost frozen. But she adds that there can be benefits in the gas that comes from animal waste and farming and from natural seeps. ''If we could capture the methane and utilize it,'' Walter says, ''we're doing two good things: reducing greenhouse-gas emissions and reducing the need for shipping diesel to rural places, which is expensive and energy intensive.'' JON GERTNER 
 --------------------
 FREE TO DRY: Alexander Lee has what he calls an immediate, IMBY (''in my backyard'') way to attack global climate change. As the founder of Project Laundry List, he is crisscrossing the country urging people to forgo electric and gas dryers -- second only to refrigerators in energy consumption among common household appliances -- in favor of hanging clothes out (after washing them in cold or warm water). That places him in the middle of a heated debate about aesthetics and class. Approximately 60 million Americans live in homeowner and condominium associations, and those sometimes have covenants banning clotheslines on the assumption that they look tacky and bespeak poverty, threatening both views and property values. Lee acknowledges that he has his work cut out for him. ''According to the Pew Research Center, 83 percent of the population thinks the dryer is an essential appliance,'' he says. Clothesline proponents are taking their case to state legislators with proposed ''Right to Dry'' bills. So far, 10 states have statutes limiting the ability of homeowners' associations to restrict solar-energy systems. But except in Florida and Utah, where laws specifically mention clotheslines, the question remains whether clotheslines count as ''solar-energy systems'' under the statutes. JEFF STRYKER
 --------------------
 JULIAN SINCLAIR: For years, Rabbi Julian Sinclair led a double life. He kept his two identities -- as a yeshiva-trained Jewish scholar and a self-described economist and policy wonk schooled at Oxford and Harvard -- apart. But the increasing portents of climate change convinced Sinclair that a religious response to what he calls ''the biggest big-picture policy challenge we face today'' is precisely what the world needs now. ''The environmental movement has been overwhelmingly secular for 40 years and has achieved amazing things,'' he says, ''but it hasn't yet figured out how to move people on a massive scale because it isn't telling the right story.' Sinclair says he believes that the ''doom-laden apocalyptic narrative'' favored by the mainstream environmental movement can paralyze rather than motivate necessary lifestyle adjustments. Conversely, he says religion -- which has been ''in the behavioral-change business for 3,000 years'' -- offers a distinct message of hope and boasts an impressive track record of moral persuasion: ''There have been watershed moments when religion has barged into public life, blown away the windbaggery of politics-as-usual and declared with irresistible force, 'This must change now!' '' Following the lead of the popular ''What Would Jesus Drive?'' campaign from the Evangelical Environmental Network and Jewish sustainability organizations like Hazon (''Vision''), Sinclair helped found the Jewish Climate Initiative. He is also the author of the forthcoming book ''The Green God,'' in which he consults the world's spiritual traditions for teachings about how humans can confront climate change. Regarding his own religion, Sinclair says Judaism regularly expresses spirituality through ''mundane deeds that awaken deeper consciousness.'' ''If going to the bathroom can be a religiously meaningful act (there's a blessing said after doing so), then switching to C.F.L. light bulbs can be, too,'' he says. Still, the economist in him urges first things first: ''Shifts in consciousness can take decades that we don't have. Trade in the S.U.V. -- then let's talk about the sacredness of the earth.'' LEAH KOENIG

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDLANDT: KEVIN CHRISTY. NASCAR: JASON SMITH/GETTY IMAGES. EXERCISE: STEVE SANFORD. CAT: MARC ALARY
JUNK: R. O. BLECHMAN. FUNERAL: KENT CASKET. TREES: MARC ALARY. DIAPER: THOMAS HANNICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. BEAVAN: KEVIN CHRISTY
 ECO ANXIETY: R. O. BLECHMAN. PUCK: THOMAS HANNICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. URBAN: DERVAES/PATH TO FREEDOM. WALTER: KEVIN CHRISTY. CLOTHESLINE: MARC ALARY.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUTO RACING (87%); NASCAR RACING (84%); ALCOHOLS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); CAPITAL CRIMES (74%); SMARTPHONES (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); BIOMECHANICS (69%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); ETHANOL (63%); LEAD (60%); LANDFILLS (50%); TOYS & GAMES (50%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%)

COMPANY: INDY RACING LEAGUE LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711320 PROMOTERS OF PERFORMING ARTS, SPORTS & SIMILAR EVENTS WITHOUT FACILITIES (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



549 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Report Piles Blame on Brokers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
AMONG those blamed for the nation's foreclosure crisis, one of the most prominent targets is mortgage brokers, who have been cited by regulators, legislators and borrowers as steering people into risky and costly loans. 
 A new study by the Center for Responsible Lending, a Washington-based consumer advocacy group, heaps more blame on the group and particularly cites brokers of subprime loans, made to borrowers with poor credit.
 In response, the National Association of Mortgage Brokers, a prominent industry group, says the criticism is misguided and discourages borrowers from using a potentially valuable source of good loans.
 ''It's the popular thing to say right now: 'It's the brokers. It's the brokers,' '' said George Hanzimanolis, president of the mortgage brokers group. ''But a majority of loans in the U.S. are done by mortgage brokers, which speaks volumes to the value of what we bring to the industry.''
 The Center for Responsible Lending's report is based on statistics from McDash Analytics, which compiled data on about 1.7 million loans made in 2004, 2005 and 2006. In analyzing the data, the center found that subprime borrowers who took out brokered loans paid higher interest rates than those who dealt directly with lenders.
 On a loan of $166,000, the median loan size for subprime borrowers, homeowners who took out brokered subprime mortgages would pay $5,222 more in the first four years than those who took out loans directly from mortgage banks or other lenders. Over the course of a 30-year loan, the Center for Responsible Lending estimated, the difference would amount to nearly $36,000.
 An author of the report, Keith Ernst, senior policy counsel for the Center for Responsible Lending, said one reason for the disparity was that subprime brokers typically received payments, known as yield spread premiums, from lenders for steering borrowers into more costly loans. ''That's a very powerful incentive,'' Mr. Ernst said. He said these fees should be regulated, an idea now being considered by Congress.
 Even without legislation, however, subprime mortgage lending has withered in the marketplace, as investors have turned their backs on riskier mortgages. The market share of subprime loans jumped to about 21 percent in 2006 from about 12 percent in 1996, but has since sharply fallen.
 Many brokers who specialized in subprime loans have disappeared. From late 2006 to late 2007, the mortgage industry shed about 100,000 jobs, or 20 percent of its work force, and industry executives said many of those jobs were tied to the subprime market.
 Now, mortgage brokers who have survived that shakeout say they have been unfairly blamed for industrywide excesses. Brokers contend that mortgage banks developed lending criteria that essentially welcomed any borrower into the fold, and brokers simply offered these products for borrowers to consider. 
 Brokers who do business with an eye toward building long-term relationships with customers say they go a step further, and work with borrowers to find the smartest loan for the borrower's circumstances.
 To avoid doing business with an unscrupulous lender or broker, prospective borrowers should obtain multiple quotes before committing to a loan, including quotes from brokers and banks or credit unions, the Center for Responsible Lending suggests.
 In addition, the center said, borrowers should avoid loans with prepayment penalties.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Comparison of 30 and 15-year mortgages with adjustable rate mortgages. (Source: HSH Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BROKERS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKET SHARE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



550 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Captain Kidd, Human-Rights Victim

BYLINE: By JOHN S. BURNETT. 
John S. Burnett is the author of ''Dangerous Waters: Modern Piracy and Terror on the High Seas.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 ON April 11, French commandos went in with guns blazing and captured a gang of pirates who days earlier had hijacked a luxury cruise ship, the Ponant, and held the crew for ransom. This was the French solution to a crime wave that has threatened international shipping off Somalia; those of us who have been on the business end of a pirate's gun can only applaud their action. 
 The British government on the other hand, to the incredulity of many in the maritime industry, has taken a curiously pathetic approach to piracy. While the French were flying six of the captured pirates to Paris to face trial, the British Foreign Office issued a directive to the once vaunted Royal Navy not to detain any pirates, because doing so could violate their human rights. British warships patrolling the pirate-infested waters off Somalia were advised that captured pirates could claim asylum in Britain and that those who were returned to Somalia faced beheading for murder or a hand chopped off for theft under Islamic law. 
 A violation of human rights? In 2007, 433 crew members were either taken hostage, assaulted, injured or killed by pirates. Three seafarers are still missing and presumed dead. According to the International Maritime Bureau, the anti-piracy watchdog of the International Chamber of Commerce, over the past 10 years 3,200 seafarers have been kidnapped, 500 injured and 160 killed.
 Modern-day pirates are not like Errol Flynn or Johnny Depp swinging through the rigging, but well-armed militiamen equipped with rocket-propelled grenades, assault rifles, global positioning systems and high-speed motorboats who have long terrorized the shipping lanes in the Gulf of Aden and literally gotten away with murder. During the week before the French raid, half the pirate attacks in the world occurred in the gulf, a strategic waterway that leads into the Red Sea and thus to the Suez Canal and Europe. Two weeks before the attack on the Ponant, a huge crude-oil carrier -- a monster of a ship as long as the Chrysler Building is tall -- en route to the Middle East was attacked by pirates firing automatic weapons. The vessel managed to flee.
 The Ponant was not the first cruise ship attacked off Somalia. In November 2005, the American ship Seabourn Spirit was attacked. The quick action of the master and the use of a Long-Range Acoustic Device, a sonic weapon that can blow out eardrums, drove off the pirates (an unexploded rocket-propelled grenade, however, did embed itself in the stateroom of a passenger). The Ponant will not be the last cruise ship to be attacked; undefended passenger vessels are among the ships that are most vulnerable to pirates (the Ponant, for example, has a water-hugging swim platform that made it easy to board).
 Hijacking a ship and kidnapping the crew for ransom is a lucrative business in Somalia. It is less risky than robbing a bank and more profitable than pulling up half-empty fishing nets. Two weeks before the Ponant was captured, Somali pirates released the British-Irish-Russian crew of an ice-breaking tug traveling from Russia to Singapore who had spent 47 days in captivity. The captain had surrendered his vessel after the wheelhouse windows were blown out by gunshots. The ship owner paid a ransom of about $700,000. The French were reported to have paid $2 million for release of the 30 crew members of the Ponant before their military took action.
 This is not a problem without a solution. Just a few years ago, piracy was out of control in the Malacca Strait, the waterway through which 80 percent of crude oil to Japan and China is shipped. But the recent combined efforts of the region's littoral states -- Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore -- have nearly eliminated piracy in the strait. The French are hoping that a concerted international effort off Somalia will have similar success.
 France is also lobbying the United Nations Security Council to adopt an international anti-piracy law. Jean-David Levitte, the top diplomatic adviser to President Nicolas Sarkozy, said his government hoped that the organization would consider the creation of an international military force ''to deal with this plague.'' Once we could have expected the British to lead such an effort; now we don't even know if they will join it.
 The British fear of breaching the human rights of pirates has not gone down well in the maritime community. Andrew Linington, the spokesman for Nautilus, a British-Dutch seafarers trade union, has called the Foreign Office's policy ''a get out of jail card'' for pirates.
 ''We despair,'' Mr. Linington told me. ''We are meant to be a major maritime country. The U.K. is heavily dependent on maritime trade -- 95 percent of trade comes and goes by sea. Yet the Foreign Office has its head in the sand. It is just wishing the problem would go away.'' 
 The British attitude has come a long way since the days when pirates were chained to pilings at Wapping and left there until the tidal water of the Thames ebbed and flowed over the bodies three times. So much for Britannia ruling the waves. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT ROTA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARITIME PIRACY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SOMALI PIRACY (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NAVIES (78%); FIREARMS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (64%); RELIGION (52%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ICC INTERNATIONAL MARITIME BUREAU (55%); INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); RED SEA (79%) SOMALIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



551 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: A Spy's Motivation: For Love of Another Country

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
-- One day in February 2005, F.B.I. agents fished a pile of paper scraps from the trash of Chi Mak, an engineer for a California defense contractor. Painstakingly reconstructed, the torn-up notes turned out to be what the bureau believed were instructions for Mr. Mak on what technical information to steal and deliver to China.
 Mr. Mak, who emigrated from China three decades ago and became a United States citizen in 1985, was sentenced last month to 24 years in prison for illegally exporting controlled information and lying about it. Addressing the judge who said he had betrayed the United States, Mr. Mak, 67, protested: ''I never intended to hurt this country. I love this country.'' 
 Mr. Mak's case, described by prosecutors as involving a spy ring that included four relatives, is part of a historic shift in the nature of spying against the United States. A new study by a Defense Department contractor shows that divided loyalty, usually on the part of naturalized Americans with roots in a foreign land, has become the dominant motive. 
 From 1947 to 1990, the study found, fewer than 1 in 5 Americans charged with spying were acting solely or primarily out of patriotic, as opposed to ideological, loyalty to a foreign country. Since 1990, according to the study's author, Katherine L. Herbig, divided loyalty has been the sole or primary motive in about half of all cases.
 ''Dual loyalty is a problem we haven't seen on such a scale since the Revolution,'' when many colonists swore allegiance to the British king, said Joel F. Brenner, the top counterintelligence official in the office of the director of national intelligence.
 The trend has come to light at an awkward time for the nation's intelligence agencies. Admitting that they can hardly hope to penetrate Al Qaeda without greater expertise in Arabic or fend off Chinese espionage without more fluent speakers of Chinese, the Central Intelligence Agency and National Security Agency are dropping old security policies that excluded many Americans with foreign relatives from high-level clearances.
 But even as the government aggressively courts first-generation and second-generation Americans, the new statistics suggest, it must keep a wary eye out for those whose real loyalty is to their native country or to militant Islam. 
 ''The intelligence community has a particularly difficult risk to manage,'' Mr. Brenner said. ''It's difficult to do background checks on people from out-of-the-way places.'' 
 Why do Americans betray their country? Counterintelligence instructors have long offered the mnemonic MICE, for money, ideology, compromise, ego. Perhaps it's time to update that to MINCE, adding nationalism to the mix. Or MINCES, with a nod to the consistent contributions of sex, as in the case of Donald W. Keyser, a State Department official whose liaison with a Taiwanese intelligence officer led to a conviction last year for possession of classified documents and lying to investigators.
 In the complex human equation that produces a turncoat, rarely is only one motive at play. But different periods have featured different motives in the ascendancy.
 The first great wave was ideology, growing from an early fascination with the Soviet experiment, which promised freedom from the grinding inequities of capitalism. Julius Rosenberg, for instance, whose parents worked in New York City sweatshops, joined the Young Communist League as a teenager; he was one of dozens of American and British Communists who fed secrets to Soviet intelligence in the first half of the 20th century.
 But by the 1970s, disillusionment with the crimes of Communism meant that few took up the Soviet cause gratis. Money dominated the second wave: hundreds of thousands of dollars for the spy ring led by John A. Walker Jr., a Navy warrant officer; $4.6 million for Aldrich Ames of the C.I.A.; $1.4 million for Robert P. Hanssen of the F.B.I., who once sent his handler a note seeking diamonds, saying cash was harder to hide.
 Perhaps no would-be spy was so indiscriminately mercenary as Brian P. Regan, an Air Force master sergeant who worked at the National Reconnaissance Office, overseer of spy satellites, and was sentenced to life in prison in 2003 after seeking to sell secrets to Iraq, Libya and China.
 The third wave of spying shows much less greed. Money, the sole or primary motive for two-thirds of spies who got their start in the 1980s, was the main draw for just a quarter of spies from 1990 to date, Ms. Herbig's new analysis concludes. No money at all was paid in the 11 most recent cases.
 The largest share was made up of naturalized Americans who spied out of devotion to another country: Cuba, the Philippines, South Korea, Egypt, Iraq. In a handful of cases, Muslims have been accused of ties to Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups; these include Hassan Abujihaad, an American convert to Islam convicted last month of supplying information on Navy ships to a suspected terrorist financier.
 Then there is the rash of Chinese cases, notably that of Mr. Mak. Prosecutors called him a classic ''sleeper'' agent who worked for years in technical jobs before delivering military information to China, including three encrypted computer disks of data. Still, such cases seem murkier than those with a money trail. Mr. Mak, as well as his friends and some Chinese-Americans, argue that his prosecution reflected anti-Chinese paranoia. They noted that the information he provided was unclassified and had been presented at international conferences. 
 The complications are evident, too, in an indictment for economic espionage unsealed in February in California against another American citizen of Chinese birth, Dongfan (Greg) Chung, a 72-year-old engineer for defense contractors. The indictment quotes a letter Mr. Chung was accused of sending to a technology institute in China in the late 1970s with an emotional offer of help.
 ''I would like to make an effort to contribute to the Four Modernizations of China,'' he wrote.
 According to the federal indictment, the Chinese were eager for his help. ''We are all moved by your patriotism,'' Professor Chen Lung Ku of the Harbin Institute of Technology wrote back in September 1979. ''We'd like to join our hands together with the overseas compatriots in the endeavor for the construction of our great socialist motherland.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROSS MACDONALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); PRISONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); AL-QAEDA (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (61%); BRITISH MONARCHS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



552 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Board Rules, and Businesses Balk

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Carol Pogash contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Mayor Gavin Newsom said he began to worry that the city's Board of Supervisors had gone too far when a member proposed tagging lobbyists.
 After all, in the last two years, Board members have passed laws banning plastic bags at supermarkets and plastic foam containers at food outlets, proposed an ordinance to fine office buildings that left lights on overnight, and yes, floated a proposition to make any lobbyist wear a name tag when doing business at City Hall. (And outside, too.)
 All of which left Mr. Newsom, a former restaurateur, thinking that the city's business community might be feeling a tad overlegislated. 
 ''I think we've hit a point of saturation,'' said Mr. Newsom, a Democrat. ''And I'm trying to make that point to the Board.'' 
 But some business groups are not banking on the Board. On Thursday, federal judges heard arguments in a lawsuit filed against the city by the Golden Gate Restaurant Association over a fee in its 2006 universal health care plan, which the group says has led to marked increases in the cost of doing business.
 ''I know the city obviously knows what's best for everybody,'' said Daniel Scherotter, the group's incoming president. ''But at a certain point, it gets ridiculous.'' 
 The health plan was just one of several laws affecting businesses passed by the Board and the city's voters in recent years, including ordinances mandating that employers pay for sick leave for employees and one establishing one of the highest minimum wages in the country. 
 And those costs are being passed on to consumers.
 At Delfina, a popular restaurant in the nightlife-rich Mission District, diners receive a card with every meal that states that while owners are happy to offer their employees health care, their bills will include a $1.25 surcharge to cover the cost. 
 ''We must consider options that allow us to cover these costs which far exceed our current health care expenditures,'' the card reads. Other restaurants have followed suit, including the well-known Zuni Cafe, which now adds a 4 percent fee to all bills. Still others have tried to pare costs, cutting back on trips to the butcher and outsourcing food preparation, Mr. Scherotter said.
 ''People are somewhere between depressed and angry,'' he said.
 The animosity has not slowed the Board's momentum: in March, it followed New York City and passed an ordinance requiring chain restaurants to post nutritional information on every menu item and imposed a fee to pay for such notices. 
 But restaurant owners are hardly the only group that is upset. Party promoters have been fuming about a change in rules that would require permits and insurance for some events, a category that opponents say could include everything from waterfront raves to weddings to benefits at the opera. Some deli proprietors have voiced displeasure about a proposal to prohibit new liquor stores within 500 feet of churches or recreation centers, setting the kind of distance requirement usually reserved for laws dealing with sex offenders. 
 San Francisco voters have proved no less proactive, passing the 2006 sick leave law, which authorizes up to nine paid days off as credit for time worked. In 2003, voters also passed a minimum-wage act that currently sets it at $9.36 -- more than $3.50 above the federal rate. And next year, it goes up.
 Health issues seem to be driving a variety of new laws, most prominently Healthy San Francisco, a first-of-its-kind plan to provide universal health care for city residents. 
 Obesity was the justification for another proposal, made by Mr. Newsom in December, to charge big stores a fee when they sold drinks with high-fructose corn syrup. Still others are old-fashioned quality-of-life laws, like the proposed liquor store ordinance, which goes by the elaborately named ''Alcohol Reduction and Safer Neighborhoods Act.'' 
 Despite the grumbling, some of San Francisco's ideas are being floated at the state level and in other cities, including the ban on plastic bags at large grocery stores. A bill modeled on the city's sick leave law was passed by a committee of the California Legislature last week.
 John Handley, the government relations director for the California Independent Grocers Association, said that the fees in San Francisco had exacerbated problems faced by grocers dealing with soaring costs and fears of a recession. ''Food prices have gone up because of raw materials going up: corn, and fuel, mainly,'' Mr. Handley said. ''And this just makes things harder.''
 Steve Falk, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, said his members recognized the need for many of the laws, but that the ''cumulative impact of all this really is starting to have a significant impact on midsized and smaller business.'' 
 ''They've got profit margins of 8 to 10 percent,'' Mr. Falk said. ''And when you add fees for a health care requirement and another for sick days, that begins to cut into a significant amount of that profit.''
 Not all the recent proposals have found legislative traction. This month, the proposed change for promoters was rejected by the city's Entertainment Commission, which found it too broad.
 Others said that their ideas were more like suggestions than hard and fast rules. 
 ''Do I really think there's going to be some sort of light cop that's going to go up to the 29th floor and see if someone's working? Of course not,'' said the Board's president, Aaron Peskin, the author of the lights-off bill. ''But you can kind to try to guilt-trip people with this kind of thing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In San Francisco, new regulations include a ban on plastic bags at grocery stores. A worker opens a container of paper bags.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); CITIES (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (69%); LITIGATION (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); JUDGES (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); SICK LEAVE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



553 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Find the Typo in Your Application

BYLINE: By DANIEL STERN

 BODY:
COLLEGE-BOUND seniors believe they have to be perfect: perfect standardized test scores, perfect grades, perfect personal statements.
 Yet the application forms -- the ones students so meticulously fill out -- could themselves use another once-over. 
 As president of Metro Academic Prep, a college prep company in Manhattan, I have some perspective on this. Take, for example, Question 6 on the University of Pennsylvania supplement accessed through the Common Application Web site: ''As the Admissions staff reads your folder, it is always gratifying for us to be able to match an application with tthe face of someone who we may have met during the year. To this end, please attach a recent photograph.''
 One of my students chose to answer Penn's essay question about risk-taking by copyediting the text in red font and writing:
 Dear Admissions Committee,
 I want you to know that I do not hold it against your fine university that such silly typos found their way into the final application sent out to applicants worldwide. It happens. You're only human. And so am I. So to balance things off, please simply bump up my Writing score on the SAT a mere 50 points. We'll call it even.
 He did not get in. But Penn has since corrected the ''tthe'' -- though the ''who/whom'' problem remains.
 Hamilton College emphasizes the importance of writing skills, but its Common Application online supplement stumbles in asking for a graded writing sample: ''Describe the assigment in the space below and attached a photocopy of the oringinal.'' A few lines down: ''The Admission Committee's policy is to select the tetsting options that will serve you best.''
 The University of Chicago gives these instructions: ''If your forget your username and password.'' And there are many more examples.
 My students enjoy finding fault with those who spend their days scrutinizing applicants. They bask in a moment of glee that quickly gives way to frustration, since their futures are riding on the outcomes. After all, they don't want to be jobless.
 Or do they? On the ''Future Plans'' page, the Common Application asks students to choose a career goal from a drop-down menu -- ''healthcare practitioners,'' ''legal occupations'' and, an ambition that would surely thrill any admissions officer, ''unemployed.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (79%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



554 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2078 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Lid On

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM. 
Michael M. Grynbaum is a business reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
ESCALATING tuition, a perennial complaint in higher education, has become particularly acute in the last five years. In that time, tuition and fees have gone up 14 percent at four-year private colleges (when adjusted for inflation), with the average price reaching $23,712 this year. As the economy slows, tuition threatens to put an even tighter pinch on pocketbooks.
 But under pressure from parents, Congress and one another -- higher education is, after all, a free market -- colleges have tweaked the financial aid model.
 Many of the changes seem to benefit the well-to-do. Starting with Harvard in December and spreading across the Northeast corridor in recent months, the nation's most selective institutions have not only increased aid for lower-income students but also reduced -- sometimes sharply -- what families earning incomes far higher than the national mean are expected to pay. Parents who make six figures may now find Yale more affordable than the University of Connecticut. Even institutions without Ivy League assets are substituting grants for loans in their financial-aid packages. 
 Ostensibly, the idea is to ease the financial burden, but colleges also want to attract top students. ''All these institutions are highly competitive within their niches,'' says Tony Pals, a spokesman for the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. ''As soon as an institution like Harvard or Yale does something large like this, everybody is going to take note. Over the last few months the announcements have been surprisingly quick.''
 Below are some of the ways colleges and universities are trying to make themselves more affordable -- and more desirable -- to students and their families. Who benefits, and by how much, is not always so clear-cut.
 Help for the (Upper, Upper) Middle Class
 In the world of higher education, ''middle income'' is like a shoe size: its definition changes depending on the brand. Next academic year, Stanford will waive tuition for families with financial need that make less than $100,000 a year. At Harvard, where average family income is north of $160,000, students whose parents make $120,000 to $180,000 will pay, on average, 10 percent of that income; the percentage declines steadily for families making less until hitting zero at the $60,000 mark. Budding bulldogs at Yale will get a similar deal.
 ''You're seeing a lot of these new projects that are looking at families with income up to $75,000 or $100,000,'' says John Walda, president of the National Association of College and University Business Officers. ''That's a real trend, and it's responsive to the perception that independent colleges in particular have become out of reach financially for many families.''
 While institutions explain their programs using income-level cutoffs, whether a family demonstrates ''need'' is a subjective calculation. Officials weigh various factors -- income, financial holdings, home equity, medical expenses, number of children in college -- to determine how much they think a family can afford to pay toward a child's education. The new policies modify the formula in parents' favor. In the fall, for example, Harvard will no longer consider home equity in determining a family's ability to pay. Stanford will consider the higher cost of living in some parts of the country. Yale will eliminate the first $200,000 in assets from its calculation. 
 Even if on a free ride (some colleges will cover room and board as well as tuition), a financial aid recipient will often still be on the hook for several thousand dollars in ''student contribution,'' which can be paid through an outside scholarship or work-study program. ''We believe every student should be contributing something toward their education,'' says Bill Schilling, director of student financial aid at the University of Pennsylvania, where the self-help contribution will be up to $2,250 a year. 
 Loans to Grants: Everyone Elite in the Pool
 Beginning next fall, many prestigious institutions will replace loans in their financial aid packages with grants, allowing students to graduate debt free. (No-loan policies at some colleges, including Dartmouth, Haverford and Rice, begin with incoming freshmen, which might not settle too well with sophomores.)
 Each college sets a different benchmark. Lafayette's policy will kick in for a family making under $50,000, and M.I.T.'s at $75,000. Colby's grant-only aid system will apply to families with need regardless of income.
 Eliminating loans, says Stephen Collins, a Colby spokesman, ''may have been a bigger step for Colby, but we want this place to be affordable to lower-income students.'' Its program will cost it $1.5 million a year, financed in part by double-digit returns on its $600 million endowment and a $50 million fund-raising campaign. 
 Mr. Collins acknowledges that administrators worried that Colby would fall behind other colleges. ''There was a sense this is going to happen in the next several years,'' he says. Colby's view was: ''Let's just do it now.''
 College as Cellphone Contract: Lock It In
 A growing number of colleges are freezing tuition for each incoming class, good for the next four (or five) years of college. Entire state systems, including those of Georgia and Illinois, offer flat-rate plans. The University of Colorado, Boulder, guarantees that tuition won't go up for out-of-state students. A plan for the State University of New York is awaiting legislative approval. 
 The idea is to give families a sense of financial certainty. But one side effect is that to maintain revenue, some universities have had to raise tuition significantly for each subsequent class. In 2004, the first year of its fixed-rate program, George Washington University increased tuition by almost 17 percent. ''Like any business, you need a revenue projection,'' explains Tracy Schario, a spokeswoman. Without the flat rate, the increase ''would have come out to 4 percent a year.'' George Washington is now labeled the nation's most expensive college; next fall, tuition, fees and mandatory housing will come to $50,607. 
 Some colleges have decided the benefit to families isn't worth the risk. Pace University, for example, set tuition rates so high that enrollment began to plummet; last year, after four years of declines, Pace disbanded its fixed-rate program. 
 Lowering the Bottom Line
 Blackburn College, a small liberal arts college in southern Illinois, has joined a handful of private colleges, mostly in the Midwest, that have taken an unorthodox approach to the tuition game: they've lowered their sticker price. In the fall, Blackburn announced it would drop its baseline charge 15 percent, to $13,500 from $15,720. The strategy proved an attention-getter: applications ran 10 percent ahead of last year. But to compensate for the loss in tuition dollars, the college has cut back on aid -- all need-based aid and most merit aid from its own coffers -- and plans to expand enrollment. 
 Officials say prospective students were turned off by the published price, and had dismissed the college without looking into tuition discounts. 
 ''We found students were very confused by the process of determining the bottom-line cost,'' says John Malin, Blackburn's enrollment manager. 
 While tuition reduction, on the face of it, seems to improve access for low-income students, the affluent may benefit more. Students who can afford to pay full freight get a discount right off the bat, while poor students no longer get institutional need-based aid and must meet higher academic standards to qualify for merit aid. 
 Eureka College, Ronald Reagan's alma mater, cut its tuition in 2004 to $13,000 from $18,700 and eliminated need-based institutional aid. Since then, average scores on standardized tests have increased and enrollment has grown about 43 percent, to 700 students. The expansion has largely been among the more affluent students that Eureka was hoping to attract, says Brian Sajko, who oversees admissions and financial aid. The decision to lower tuition, Mr. Sajko says, ''is a way to think about who you are trying to serve, but also that you are a business. People at Harvard can put out a tablecloth and sit there quietly. But colleges like us need to wave that banner. We have to be a little more out there in the world.'' 
 Muskingum College in Ohio is credited with being first to cut tuition across the board, in 1995. Others include Wells (New York), Heidelberg (Ohio), the College of Idaho and North Park University (Chicago). 
 Why don't most colleges just cut their sticker price? 
 Donald Heller, director of the Center for the Study of Higher Education at Pennsylvania State, offers one reason: ''There's something we refer to in college pricing as the Chivas Regal effect. If an institution drops its price, it's seen as a decrease in quality.''
 No Tuition Here: Free-for-All Colleges
 A handful of colleges have, for decades, quietly offered the best deal in higher education: $0 tuition.
 Armed with a strong historical mission -- along with aggressive fund-raising and, at some, student work programs that offset operating costs -- administrators at free colleges all say they would dip further into their endowments before they would consider charging tuition. ''It has to do with our whole reason for being,'' says Joanne Singh, associate vice president for development at Berea College, in Kentucky. 
 With Congressional leaders questioning why more of institutions' swollen endowments isn't being used to make college cheaper, it's worth considering those that manage without charging a penny of tuition, among them the College of the Ozarks, Webb Institute, Curtis School of Music, Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering and Deep Springs, a two-year college in the California desert.
 Berea was founded in 1855 by abolitionists who sought to educate poor students in Appalachia. Today, the college retains a Christian character, and applicants must meet financial limits roughly parallel to standards for federal Pell grants. Students work a minimum 10 hours a week in jobs like broom making, horticulture and iron forging to help cover tuition and earn spending money. 
 With its $1.1 billion endowment, Berea ranks ahead of Dartmouth, Duke and the University of Chicago in money per student. Endowment returns cover about three-fourths of operating costs, but finances can be hard to maintain. ''It's very difficult, especially when there's a downturn in the marketplace, because we depend upon our endowment to perform,'' says Joe Bagnoli, Berea's associate provost for enrollment management.
 ''We're probably not going to be the school that has the $8 million piece of equipment,'' Ms. Singh says. Yet it recently implemented a program that provides free laptops to all incoming freshmen; the computers are theirs to keep. Half of Berea's students study abroad, with 50 percent paid by the college.
 Gifts and bequests make up most of the endowment, though one traditional incentive for alumni giving -- a leg up for offspring in admissions -- probably doesn't apply. Postcollege success lifts most alumni incomes beyond Berea's ceiling for applicants, $52,000 for a family of four. ''If we've done our job, their kids are not going to get in here,'' Ms. Singh says.
 In a very different setting -- the East Village of Manhattan -- the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art educates roughly 1,000 students of art, architecture and engineering, providing all with full tuition plus aid for living expenses. Founded in 1859 by Peter Cooper to provide city children the education he never received, it is one of the country's most selective colleges, admitting only 10 percent of applicants. Cooper, a self-made industrialist who invented the gelatin dessert that became Jell-O, had the foresight to buy the future site of the Chrysler Building, which was completed in 1930. The building's lease now provides nearly 45 percent of the Cooper Union's revenue.
 The college's fortunes rise and fall with the real estate market. 
 Less than a decade ago, the institution had annual deficits of up to $15 million. But a series of real estate deals, including the conversion of an Astor Place parking lot to a 22-story apartment tower making $2 million a year, has helped the college to get back into the black -- and to meet its commitment to keep education, as Cooper said, ''as free as water and air.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in the special Education Life section last Sunday with an article about colleges that do not charge tuition referred incorrectly to Berea College's $1.1 billion endowment. It exceeds Duke's and Dartmouth's endowment per student, not in total value. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRATIS: Maya Benami (left) and Rachel Saunders studying herpetology at Berea College, whose $1.1 billion endowment surpasses those of Duke and Dartmouth
A REAL ESTATE: The Cooper Union, thanks to gelatin and Chrysler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



555 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Some Mutual Fund Numbers Look Great, but for Whom?

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
THE public stock markets are in the throes of one of the biggest and most egregious financial scandals in modern history, according to Louis Lowenstein. The scandal has little to do with highly publicized abuses like market timing or insider trading. It is not directly related to the current credit and subprime mortgage crises.
 Instead, it involves the $10 trillion in life savings that 90 million individual investors in the United States have entrusted to mutual funds. 
 This unprecedented scandal is documented in succinct but gory detail by Mr. Lowenstein in The Investor's Dilemma: How Mutual Funds Are Betraying Your Trust and What to Do About It (Wiley, $29.95). Mr. Lowenstein is a lawyer, a former business executive and a professor emeritus of finance and law at Columbia Law School. Like Warren E. Buffett, he is a proud disciple of the ''value investing'' principles outlined by Columbia professors Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd in 1934. 
 Mr. Lowenstein is also a heck of an investigative reporter, as well as an astute financial adviser. 
 Here's the nut of the mutual funds industry scandal, as summarized by Mr. Lowenstein: ''There is a profound conflict of interest built into the industry's structure, one that grows out of the fact that the management companies are independently owned, separate from the funds themselves, and managers profit by maximizing the funds under management because their fees are based on assets, not performance.''
 As a result, the vast majority of mutual funds are far more interested in taking money from investors than in making money for them, according to Mr. Lowenstein. 
 From 1980 to 2004, the assets of stock funds increased 90 times, from $45 billion to $4 trillion. During that same period, fees paid by investors and collected by fund managers via fund management companies soared from $288 million to $37 billion. What's more, the fund managers received their fees regardless of whether the prices of the stocks they selected went up or down.
 Not surprisingly, mutual funds continue to multiply like rabbits. By the beginning of 2007, there were about 4,800 mutual funds with $6 trillion invested in stocks and $3 trillion more invested in bonds and money market funds.
 ''The remarkable growth is a reflection, no doubt, of pervasive anxiety about corporate pension plans and Social Security, a sense that people had better take care of themselves or they could be left out in the cold in their so-called golden years,'' Mr. Lowenstein observes.
 But alas, the performance of the vast majority of mutual funds ranges from dismal to atrocious, especially in comparison to the highly profitable performance of the management companies that own them. The record of T. Rowe Price, which is widely regarded as a respectable mutual fund family, is one of Mr. Lowenstein's many graphic cases in point.
 From 2001 to 2005, T. Rowe's mutual fund assets under management soared 70 percent to $270 billion; the profit of the management company that owned the funds more than doubled. But most of the investors in T. Rowe's five leading large-cap growth funds were treading water. During the five-year period ended Dec. 31, 2005, two of the funds gained 1.26 percent and 1.38 percent, barely outperforming the 0.54 percent return of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The other three T. Rowe funds posted negative returns, ranging from minus 0.26 percent to minus 2.06 percent.
 Mr. Lowenstein cites several structural reasons for the failure of mutual funds to serve the best interests of their investors. 
 One reason is that most mutual fund managers do not, as Mr. Lowenstein puts it, ''eat their own cooking.'' From 2003 to 2006, for example, T. Rowe's chief investment officer amassed ownership or control of stock in the management company worth over $75 million. But his total personal investment in T. Rowe's mutual funds was only $1 million.
 Mr. Lowenstein contends that most mutual funds intentionally set low performance standards for themselves. Their goal, he says, is not to beat the S.& P. 500 average or the average of a particular industry sector, but simply to ''track,'' or approximate, those averages so that their managers ''don't look bad.'' 
 The mutual fund industry offers 11,000 different asset classes, ranging from high-tech to old economy stocks that are sold to investors ''like soap.'' But rather than dealing directly with the public, mutual funds amass up to 90 percent of their money through retail brokerage firms, which, in turn, enjoy ''pay to play'' revenue-sharing arrangements. In 2005, for example, the Edward Jones brokerage firm collected a whopping $172 million from a favored seven mutual fund groups to which it had referred its retail clients.
 Mr. Lowenstein acknowledges that indexing a stock portfolio can have its virtues. He notes that a mutual funds analyst at Morningstar recently described T. Rowe Price funds as the type ''you would feel good about your granny investing in,'' though Mr. Lowenstein hastens to add, ''Maybe your grandma, but not mine.''
 Mr. Lowenstein balances his critique of rapacious mutual funds with an analysis of two relatively new funds, Wintergreen and Fairholme, that buck the prevailing trends. 
 THE Wintergreen and Fairholme business models mirror the Graham-Dodd philosophy of focusing on a few carefully selected stocks rather than diversifying in the name of safety, which is typically a euphemism for lazy research, Mr. Lowenstein says. Where the average mutual fund held 160 stocks, Wintergreen held 41 stocks and Fairholme held just 18 when the book was written. The annual returns of both funds were above 16 percent. 
 Mr. Lowenstein discloses that he owns stakes in the Wintergreen and the Fairholme funds. Given his trashing of most of their competitors, he may be faulted for not specifying the exact amounts of what he describes as his ''modest positions.'' 
 But at the risk of mixing metaphors, it seems clear that Mr. Lowenstein puts his money where his mouth is, and that the type of investing he praises is the kind of cooking that the general public deserves to be eating as well. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (57%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



556 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: DATA: The Endowed

 BODY:
Congress is pressing the nation's colleges and universities to spend more of their endowments. Below are the richest of the institutions serving undergraduates -- those with the largest endowment assets per student -- according to the latest figures from the National Association of College and University Business Officers. (Institutions that are primarily medical schools are not included.) A comparison of the endowments at public and private institutions demonstrates the disparity within higher education.
Endowments may benefit more than the higher-education component. Percentages are adjusted for inflation using the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics consumer price index. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: The chart compares the endowments at public and private institutions. (Source: Nacubo
 Peterson's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (85%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (84%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY BUSINESS OFFICERS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



557 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2612 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE AND MONEY; College, What a Deal!

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt writes the Economic Scene column for The Times.

 BODY:
ON Oct. 2, 2003, board members at the University of Virginia filed into the Upper East Oval Room of the Rotunda, the centerpiece of Thomas Jefferson's campus design, for one of their regular meetings. As usual, they were joined by the university's top administrators. Just before the meeting began, a member of U.Va.'s public affairs staff walked over to John T. Casteen III, the university president, to hand him a clipping from that morning's newspaper.
 The clipping described a sweeping new financial-aid program that the University of North Carolina had just announced. North Carolina was going to cover nearly the full cost of any student whose family made less than 150 percent of the poverty level or, for a family of four, about $30,000 in today's dollars. Students would still have to work 10 to 12 hours a week in a campus job, but they would not have to take out any loans. 
 At the time, it was one of the most aggressive aid programs at any major university. 
 The program touched a nerve with Mr. Casteen. The son of a shipyard worker from Portsmouth, in the southeastern corner of the state, he was the first member of his family to attend college. But during his 13 years as president, tuition had risen significantly, as it had at many colleges, and the Virginia campus had become even more dominated by upper-middle-class students. North Carolina's new policy, which had the potential to lure students away from Virginia, could aggravate the situation.
 Before the meeting had ended, Mr. Casteen announced to the room that he wanted the financial-aid staff to come up with a response. He wanted it quickly, he said, and he wanted something bigger than what North Carolina was doing. Four months later, at the board's next meeting, it approved a plan that was similar but somewhat more generous than North Carolina's. Making sure everyone had a chance to attend college, Mr. Casteen would say, was ''a fundamental obligation of a free culture.''
 That same spring, officials at Harvard had been working on their own plan. Three weeks after Virginia's announcement, Lawrence H. Summers, then Harvard's president, traveled to Miami to give a speech titled ''Higher Education and the American Dream.'' In it, he alluded to Jefferson's views on the importance of educating poor and rich alike, and he decried the paucity of low-income students on college campuses. The punch line came toward the end of the speech, when Mr. Summers raised the bar on North Carolina and Virginia. Harvard would cover nearly the full college cost for any student whose family made less than $40,000.
 The financial-aid bidding war at the nation's top universities was under way.
 North Carolina soon expanded its program, to cover 200 percent of the poverty level, or $41,300 today. In 2005, Yale undergraduates occupied the admissions office to demand that their university increase aid, and administrators soon did. The University of Maryland came forward with a plan. So did the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Pennsylvania and Stanford. In 2006, Harvard raised the bar again, saying parents making less than $60,000 would not have to pay anything toward the cost of their child's education. 
 All of these moves focused on low- and middle-income students -- an ever-rarer breed at elite universities over the last generation. But in 2007, the bidding war took on a new character: it began to address the concerns of the upper middle class as well. In July, Amherst College announced it would eliminate loans for all students, no matter their income. In December, Harvard -- under Congressional pressure, like other wealthy colleges, to spend more of its endowment -- introduced a policy under which most families making less than $180,000 a year would receive significant aid. For all but the most affluent 3 or 4 percent of the population, Harvard would be roughly as expensive as many state universities. 
 Harvard being Harvard, the policy received a huge amount of attention, and set in motion a frenzy that made the previous few years of dueling announcements look leisurely by comparison. Within weeks, Yale went as far as Harvard had, while Bowdoin, Colby, Dartmouth, Haverford, Pomona and others came up with their own -- usually less generous -- policies.
 In less than five years, the entire tuition and financial aid system at the nation's top colleges has been overhauled. Today, it looks a lot like a highly progressive tax code, in which the affluent are bearing an enormous share of the overall tuition burden. No matter how high the published cost -- almost $50,000, typically -- these top universities have become significantly more affordable for the majority of students. 
 It may be the first time that has ever happened. 
 The changes have not been greeted with a chorus of joy, however. At colleges without large endowments, administrators are worried about the pressure they will face. Some have suggested that they may end up reducing aid to low-income students to compete for more affluent students, who typically have higher test scores and thus help an institution's ranking in U.S. News & World Report. In the past, these colleges were able to woo some students away from the Ivy League with merit scholarships.
 Others say the latest round of changes will not solve the larger issue of economic opportunity raised by Mr. Casteen, Mr. Summers and others. ''There is a perception that this has gone farther than it really has,'' says Sandy Baum, an economist at Skidmore College who oversees the College Board's annual report on college costs. ''The number of students going to these schools is tiny. It's not going to make a dent in educational opportunity.'' Increases in the federal Pell grant, which typically go to students whose families make less than $40,000, would probably accomplish far more on that front. 
 Over the last decade, the average net cost of attending a four-year public college -- including room and board as well as financial aid, and controlling for inflation -- has risen to $9,980 a year, from $7,650, according to the College Board. The average net cost at private colleges has risen to $23,000, from $18,050.
 Still, other education experts have pointed out that the new aid policies aren't always as generous as administrators make them out to be. Some colleges, for instance, have committed to covering only tuition, not room and board, which can be substantial. 
 All of these concerns may well be valid. Yet it's still worth taking a minute to consider how quickly -- and how much -- the recent announcements have actually changed the landscape of higher education.
 THIS past November, the admissions deans from Harvard, Princeton and Virginia went on a recruiting tour together. They no longer had to spend the month reading applications, because they had abolished their early-admissions programs. So they hit the road instead, speaking at high schools across Virginia and West Virginia. 
 One night, they held an information session at a Holiday Inn in the Appalachian town of Bluefield, W.Va. They had sent invitations to about two dozen students and had told guidance counselors to spread the word. William Fitzsimmons, Harvard's admissions dean, had expected about 45 students and parents to show up, based on previous recruiting trips. 
 Just three years earlier, John Blackburn, Virginia's dean, had gone on a similar tour in nearby western Virginia and discovered that few students had heard about the university's new financial-aid plan. ''You can't just raise the U.Va. flag and expect a lot of low-income kids to come out,'' Mr. Blackburn had said after one lackluster night in 2004 at a college fair in Big Stone Gap, Va. Many had assumed U.Va. was simply too expensive, even if financial aid would have made it affordable for them. This assumption, officials say, is one reason the student body at elite colleges has become less economically diverse in recent decades. 
 But something may be changing. At the Bluefield Holiday Inn, 110 people showed up to listen to Mr. Blackburn, Mr. Fitzsimmons and Janet Lavin Rapelye, Princeton's dean. ''We were blown away,'' Mr. Fitzsimmons recalls.
 The best explanation seems to be that the flurry of high-profile announcements about financial aid has helped overcome years of headlines about rising tuition. As Ms. Baum of the College Board says, ''Low- and moderate-income kids now know that it's fine to apply to Harvard and Dartmouth and money won't be an issue. And that's good.''
 The number of low-income students at top institutions is still fairly low but is growing. The share of Harvard undergraduates receiving Pell grants rose to 13 percent this year, from 10 percent in 2003-4. At Amherst, over the same span, the number has risen to 18 percent from 15 percent. 
 The purest case study may be Princeton. It took perhaps the first step down this road in 1998, when it replaced loans with grants for low-income students. It expanded the program to all financial-aid students in 2001. But other colleges didn't follow suit. And the policy had only a modest effect on the makeup of Princeton's student body. Between 1998 and 2005, the share of undergraduates with Pell grants rose to 7.7 percent, from 6.9 percent, says Robin Moscato, the director of undergraduate financial aid. But over just the last two years, with other colleges trumpeting their new programs, the share of Princeton undergraduates receiving the Pell has increased to almost 10 percent.
 The elimination of loans is a crucial part of the changes. From a straight economic perspective, this doesn't entirely make sense: because people with a bachelor's degree make so much more on average than people without one, college loans are usually well worth their cost. But these benefits come years later, while the costs come immediately -- and intimidate many families. 
 ''A lot of students from smaller towns look at the university and they're like, 'No,' '' says Carla Rojas, a senior at North Carolina whose father is a construction worker near Lincolnton, N.C., and whose mother does alterations there. Many students know there are scholarships, Ms. Rojas says, but they figure, ''Oh, I won't get one.'' 
 Replacing loans with grants changes the calculation. Rather than having to persuade would-be applicants that loans are a good investment, recruiters can say the students will graduate debt-free. If anything, Ms. Rojas adds, she wishes North Carolina were doing more to publicize its policy. 
 Mr. Summers says the ultimate goal should be to repeat the success of affirmative-action policies. Affirmative action has become so ingrained that black students with a given SAT score are more likely to apply to Harvard than white students with the same score, according to a university analysis. High-achieving poor students, however, are much less likely to apply to elite colleges than their affluent counterparts.
 Closing that gap will require more than just money. ''Increasing financial aid is terrific,'' as Mr. Summers says. ''But as important or more important is recruitment and the way students are admitted.''
 If admissions officers were to give poor students more credit for what they had overcome, colleges would become considerably more diverse. But they would risk angering alumni, whose children would face tougher competition to be admitted. Recruiting more low-income students would also bring a big price tag, because the newly expansive aid policies would then apply to many more students. 
 It's easier for college administrators to be generous with financial aid when their campuses don't have very many poor students to begin with.
 THERE are several arguments for increasing economic diversity at elite colleges. For one thing, it makes the universities more consistent with their self-image as meritocracies. In recent decades, as colleges have become more diverse geographically, racially and religiously -- changes they regularly celebrate -- they have also become less so economically, according to the Higher Education Research Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 At the same time that their campuses were becoming more affluent, the colleges have come to play arguably a larger role in American society. 
 George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton all graduated from elite colleges (Yale, Yale and Georgetown). So did Barack Obama (Columbia) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (Wellesley). The number of United States senators and Supreme Court justices with Ivy League degrees has risen in recent years. 
 Recent research also suggests that lower-income students benefit more from an elite education than other students do. Two economists, Alan B. Krueger and Stacy Berg Dale, studied the earnings of college graduates and found that for most, the selectivity of their alma maters had little effect on their incomes once other factors, like SAT scores, were taken into account. To use a hypothetical example, a graduate of North Carolina State who scored a 1200 on the SAT makes as much, on average, as a Duke graduate with a 1200. But there was an exception: poor students. Even controlling for test scores, they made more money if they went to elite colleges. They evidently gained something like closer contact with professors, exposure to new kinds of jobs or connections that they couldn't get elsewhere. 
 ''Low-income children,'' says Mr. Krueger, a Princeton professor, ''gain the most from going to an elite school.''
 Given all this, some have argued that Harvard, Yale and other universities are mistaken in giving financial aid to upper-middle-class students rather than using the money to recruit more low-income students. Awarding a $30,000 scholarship to someone whose parents make $180,000 a year doesn't exactly reduce economic inequality. But it does have two other benefits.
 For one, it gives the new financial aid a more solid base of support among alumni. Anthony W. Marx, the president of Amherst, has been talking about the importance of making the college more economically diverse since his inauguration address in 2003. But he says he received more congratulatory e-mail messages after announcing last summer that Amherst would eliminate loans for all students than after any of his announcements about recruiting poorer students. 
 Expanding the pool of aid recipients may also make the policies more popular among students. It would be rather counterproductive if the children of midlevel corporate executives, who were paying $50,000 in tuition and fees, ended up resenting the children of police officers, who were paying nothing. 
 The most important issues facing higher education still have relatively little to do with this small group of colleges. Those issues involve preparing more low- and middle-income children to attend college, lifting the graduation rates at community colleges and at four-year colleges that educate large numbers of these students, and simplifying and expanding federal financial aid.
 That said, what happens at the country's best-known universities still matters, both because of their role in society and because of how they shape the discussion about higher education. Yes, the new policies have flaws, and they are likely to make life more difficult for administrators at other colleges. But just imagine if, five years ago, somebody had said that Harvard, Amherst and their peers would soon be using their endowments to reduce costs to almost nothing for most families making less than $60,000 -- and to give large scholarships to families making as much as $180,000. Would anyone have argued that this sounded like a bad idea?

GRAPHIC: CHART: TUITION FREE, LOAN FREE, DEBT FREE: For the 2008-9 academic year, many elite colleges and universities are offering more generous financial-aid packages for families with demonstrated need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); FAMILY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



558 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: As Crocs Departs, Quebec Turns Bitter

 BODY:
The harshest criticism Ron Snyder used to face as president and chief executive of Crocs was that his company's plastic clogs, while light and comfortable, were an insult to traditional fashion sense. But last week, Mr. Snyder and Crocs became widely unpopular in Quebec City, after he announced that the company was closing its factory there, which employs 669 people.
 ''This is a pure case of savage capitalism,'' Raymond Bachand, the Quebecois minister of economic development, innovations and exports, told reporters. ''They decided to flush away Quebec.'' 
 Crocs, which is based in Niwot, Colo., turned the clogs, originally intended for sailors and gardeners, into a footwear fad. But the shoes were created by a Quebec City company, Foam Creations, using its proprietary plastic foam that does not absorb water or foot odor.
 Even after Crocs purchased Foam Creations in 2004, many Quebecers still regarded Crocs as one of the province's great innovations, much like the Ski-Doo snowmobile. Mr. Snyder, in a statement, said the plant closing was a cost-reduction move forced by slowing sales. Presumably, the company will not be counting on the Quebec market to reverse that trend. IAN AUSTEN 
 THE ABSENTEE DIRECTOR Last year was exceptionally trying for the directors of Morgans Hotel Group, whose former chief executive, W. Edward Scheetz, resigned after a young woman died in his Las Vegas condominium, apparently of an accidental drug overdose. The company's board held 11 scheduled meetings and a number of ad hoc meetings in connection of the departure of Mr. Scheetz, according to the latest Morgans proxy statement.
 Having a director with the stamina to repeatedly ride a bicycle up some of the highest peaks in the French Alps would seem to be a bonus in times of such stress. Yet Lance Armstrong, the seven-time winner of the Tour de France, did not attend a single meeting of his fellow Morgans directors last year, the proxy states. Early this year, Mr. Armstrong gave up his seat on the board after collecting more than $70,000 in fees and company stock in 2007.
 Through a spokesman, the company said: ''Lance Armstrong was a valued member of our board of directors. During Mr. Armstrong's service, he was engaged and readily available to the C.E.O. and other directors for consultation on various issues and projects.'' PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 100 Going on 200Jeffrey M. Peek believes in taking the long view -- the very long view -- when it comes to troubles that his company, the CIT Group, is facing. CIT, a commercial lender that has become ensnared in the subprime mortgage crisis, drew on $7.3 billion of bank credit lines last month and is rumored to be a candidate for a takeover. Last week, it announced a net quarterly loss of about $250 million.
 But Mr. Peek, CIT's chairman and chief executive, said last week that he was confident that the company, celebrating its 100th anniversary, would survive. Interviewed in Manhattan at a benefit for Partnership With Children, he said he was ''trying to make sure we make it to 200 years.'' 
 In the century that CIT has been in business, Mr. Peek said, ''we've been through 19 different business cycles. If you think about the Depression, the late '80s, when we had the crash in the market, it gives you some support that we'll get through what's going on now.'' 
 The event, held at the Pierre hotel, honored Mr. Peek for his support of Partnership With Children, a social service organization in New York. JANE L. LEVERE
 WAY OUTSIDE THE BOX Every year, hoping to elicit its students' most inventive ideas, Columbia Business School offers cash prizes in its Outrageous Business Plan Competition. This month, the top prize of $4,575 went to Geoffrey Reed and Eric Chesin, for a system that pharmacies could use to include all of a person's prescriptions in one package.
 But perhaps the most outrageous idea, in this Viagra age, was a concept that won a $500 prize, for a hypothetical product called Turn Off, designed to stop sexual arousal temporarily by halting the production of pheromones.
 The creators of the business plan for Turn Off, Sonja Kosman, Adam Birnbaum and Nir Bruner, said they got the idea from a student who had been unable to concentrate in class because she had a crush on a professor.
 It is not unheard-of for the outrageous plans to become reality. The Swiss airline Flybaboo, for one, came into being after Julian Cook won the competition in 2000 with his plan for that business. STACEY STOWE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CORPORATE DEFENDER: At the National Zoo in Washington, J. W. Marriott Jr. -- with Eduardo Braga, left, governor of Amazonas, and Virgilio Viana, right, head of the Amazonas Sustainable Foundation -- pledged $2 million this month to protect a 1.4 million-acre rain forest preserve in Amazonas, the northern state in Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, VIA PRNEWSFOTO)
 Lance Armstrong 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (62%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: MORGANS HOTEL GROUP CO (55%); CIT GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: MHGC (NASDAQ) (55%); CIT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (51%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (87%); JEFFREY M PEEK (58%); J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ALPS (75%) CANADA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



559 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Congestion Pricing: Just Another Regressive Tax?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ELMSFORD 

 BODY:
 IF you were one of those Westchester residents who struggled with existential dread at the possibility of paying an additional $8 a day for driving into Midtown or Downtown Manhattan, you need not have agitated yourself.
 Except for a few frugal souls who now try to cross into Manhattan free by snaking their way to the toll-less Harlem River bridges, the fees exacted on Westchesterites by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's fruitless stab at easing traffic would have been zero to minimal -- whatever was left after Triborough or Henry Hudson Bridge tolls were deducted, or $2.50 a day at most.
 Nevertheless, the assault in Albany against the Bloomberg plan was led by one of Westchester's own -- Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, whose father, it is worth noting, was an organizer for an engineers' union and whose mother worked in the 1948 Progressive Party campaign of Henry Wallace. They reared their son with the principles of the Progressive movement. Thus Mr. Brodsky, 61, in an interview at his Colonial-era home here, said he had long opposed ''pricing mechanisms as the preferred way of solving social problems.'' The reason: these schemes put the burden for paying the fees on blueblood and blue collar alike, he said. 
 ''I don't believe public places should be distributed based on an ability to pay,'' Mr. Brodsky said, stretching his suede cowboy boots out from his armchair while sipping a glass of tea. ''In the end I'm a progressive before I'm an environmentalist.'' 
 However far Mr. Brodsky -- or for that matter his entire '60s generation -- may have strayed from younger, idealistic stirrings, combating traffic congestion with fees has for more than a decade seemed to him, well, regressive. The people who would have borne the brunt were working- and middle-class stiffs in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx who for whatever reason feel they need to take a car into the area below 60th Street on workdays. 
 Park Avenue co-op owners could easily have absorbed the $8 fee. But it would have been tougher for the Flatbush carpenter who does not want to schlep his toolbox on the subway so he can renovate a Tribeca kitchen or the Queens home care attendant who might have to take a bus to a subway to care for an elderly woman in Gramercy Park but is lucky enough to have a husband who can drop her off on his way to work.
 That $8 fee can amount to $2,000 a year, chump change for a Manhattan mogul but 5 percent of a year's income for a young municipal worker or secretary. Somehow, Mr. Brodsky said, issues of economic equity got lost in the debate and shrugged off by environmental groups. 
 ''These pricing mechanisms try to modify behavior of people who can't afford to do what it is we want them to do,'' he said.
 Perhaps equity had nothing to do with it. Policy analysts pointed out that the New York State Legislature's hostility to congestion pricing was a response to what legislators saw as the billionaire mayor's dismissive stance toward them and his penchant for strategically doling out large gifts to political and advocacy groups that support his ideas. There were also strong arguments that the city's subways and buses cannot now accommodate the spillover of motorists who would theoretically forsake their cars. 
 Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group's Straphangers Campaign, was impressed with how Mr. Brodsky, and his steel-trap-sharp and fast-talking style, honed in Brooklyn and Harvard Law School, led the charge, articulating the case against congestion pricing in the Democratic caucus and to reporters and backing himself up with thesis-sized reports.
 ''I worked closely with him in the fall on the fare hike, and I opposed him on congestion pricing, and it's much better to be on his team,'' Mr. Russianoff said.
 Congestion pricing -- and the $500 million a year it was supposed to raise to improve subways and buses -- is not dead. The plan can be reconfigured to offer write-offs on city taxes to those working- and middle-class strivers who need to drive, not a bad idea in an age when the chasm between rich and poor keeps yawning. 
 Some legislators say they think the easiest way to raise money is simply to increase taxes on people making over $1 million a year. That thought may have been buttressed last week by a front-page article in The New York Times showing how, despite recession jitters, hedge fund traders and other tycoons are buying $300,000 Bentleys and $35,000 bottles of Champagne. But politicians don't want to be seen as raising taxes, so they champion disguised taxes like fees, tolls and tuition increases.
 There's also an approach taken by the city of London, which already has congestion pricing but had to double tolls after a year and a half to make it work. It charges a premium on tolls for inefficient cars like S.U.V.'s or limousines. 
 There's a fair argument to be made that we already have pricing mechanisms -- subway fares and bridge tolls -- that burden rich and poor alike. But opponents like Mr. Brodsky say that if a relatively novel twist like congestion pricing succeeds, governments desperate for money could start charging people for taking a walk in a city park or entering a library. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PROGRESSIVE Richard Brodsky led assault on Bloomberg plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); MAYORS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



560 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: The Wealth Trajectory: Rewards for the Few

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush and advised Mitt Romney in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
IF there is one thing about the United States economy in recent years that is beyond dispute, it is this: It's a great time to be rich. 
 Yes, I know, being rich has never exactly been a downer. But today it is all the more sweet.
 You see it in the daily headlines. The financial pages tell us that Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, took home $68.5 million last year. The political pages tell us that during the last eight years, Bill and Hillary Clinton raked in $109 million. These stories are not mere aberrations. According to the economists who crunch the numbers, they reflect a long-term trend of increasing economic inequality. 
 The best data on the superrich comes from Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of Economics and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley. Professors Piketty and Saez have been studying historical data from tax returns and recently updated their work to 2006. 
 They report that one out of every 10,000 American families has income in excess of $10.7 million. These lucky duckies number less than 15,000. Put together, they could all fit into a modest-size town. (We could call it Aspen or Nantucket.)
 What's more, the superrich have been getting an increasing slice of the economic pie. In 1980, the top 0.01 percent of the population had 0.87 percent of total income. By 2006, their share had more than quadrupled to 3.89 percent, a level not seen since 1916.
 Critics of the Piketty-Saez data argue, with some justification, that tax return data is unreliable. Tax rules are constantly changing, and the rich have ways to manipulate the system. It is impossible to be sure whether a change in reported income is merely a change in tax strategy or a true change in circumstance.
 It is hard to escape the conclusion, however, that Professors Piketty and Saez are finding something real. Other data sources lack much information on the superrich, who are simply too rare to show up in significant numbers. But when we compare the merely affluent with those at the low end of the pay scale, these other sources show similar, if less extreme, trends.
 Take the government's Current Population Survey, which covers about 50,000 households and is best known for producing the monthly unemployment rate. Like the tax return data, the C.P.S. also shows rising inequality. From 1980 to 2005, the earnings of the 90th percentile full-time male worker increased 49 percent more than the earnings of the 10th percentile worker. Among full-time female workers, there has been a similar divergence between high and low earners.
 Offsetting this trend to some degree is the shrinking gender gap. Female workers started well below their male counterparts and have been catching up. But despite this equalizing force, the earnings ratio of the 90th to 10th percentiles, men and women combined, has risen 30 percent.
 What accounts for rising inequality? Some pundits are tempted to look inside the Beltway for a cause, but the case is hard to make. Government policy makers do not have the tools to exert such a strong influence over pretax earnings, even if they wanted to do so.
 Also, the trend toward increasing inequality has been fairly steady, despite changing political winds. The income share of the richest families increased substantially both during Ronald Reagan's eight years in office and during Bill Clinton's.
 The best diagnosis so far comes from two of my Harvard colleagues, Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz, in their forthcoming book ''The Race Between Education and Technology'' (Harvard University Press). Professor Goldin is an economic historian, and Professor Katz is a labor economist who briefly worked in the Clinton administration. Their bottom line: ''the sharp rise in inequality was largely due to an educational slowdown.'' 
 According to Professors Goldin and Katz, for the past century technological progress has been a steady force not only increasing average living standards, but also increasing the demand for skilled workers relative to unskilled workers. Skilled workers are needed to apply and manage new technologies, while less skilled workers are more likely to become obsolete.
 For much of the 20th century, however, skill-biased technological change was outpaced by advances in educational attainment. In other words, while technological progress increased the demand for skilled workers, our educational system increased the supply of them even faster. As a result, skilled workers did not benefit disproportionately from economic growth.
 But recently things have changed. Over the last several decades, technology has kept up its pace, while educational advancement has slowed down. The numbers are striking. The cohort of workers born in 1950 had an average of 4.67 more years of schooling than the cohort born in 1900, representing an increase of 0.93 year in each decade. By contrast, the cohort born in 1975 had only 0.74 more years of schooling than that born in 1950, an increase of only 0.30 year a decade. 
 Because growth in the supply of skilled workers has slowed, their wages have grown relative to those of the unskilled. This shows up in the estimates of the financial return to education made by Professors Goldin and Katz. In 1980, each year of college raised a person's wage by 7.6 percent. In 2005, each year of college yielded an additional 12.9 percent. The rate of return from each year of graduate school has risen even more -- from 7.3 to 14.2 percent. 
 WHILE education is the key to understanding broad inequality trends, it is less obvious whether it can explain the incomes of the superrich. Simply going to college and graduate school is hardly enough to join the top echelons with Lloyd Blankfein and Bill and Hillary Clinton. 
 But neither is education irrelevant. If Mr. Blankfein had left the New York public school system and gone directly to work, instead of attending Harvard College and Law School, most likely he would not be the head of a major investment bank today. 
 If the Clintons had been content with high school diplomas and not attended Georgetown, Wellesley, Oxford and Yale, they most likely would not have reached the White House and Senate, and it is a good bet that they would not now be getting multimillion-dollar book deals and $100,000 speaking dates. A top education is no guarantee of great riches, but it often helps.
 Maybe educational levels are like Willie Wonka's chocolate bars. A few of them come with golden tickets that give you opportunities almost beyond imagination. But even if you aren't lucky enough to get a golden ticket, you can still enjoy the chocolate, which by itself is well worth the price. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (88%); FAMILY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); BILL CLINTON (57%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



561 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: The Not-So-Great Wall of Mexico

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
Remember the fence, the one that Congress told Michael Chertoff, head of homeland security, to build on the Mexican border, with the admonition to let no power on earth stop him -- no law or statute, no judge or jury? That fence? 
 News reports out of New Mexico and Texas suggest that it may not be all the wall that it was cracked up to be, or hoped for by the hunker-downers in Congress and on talk radio who clamored for it as the first and most important step toward an illegal-alien-free America.
 ''Feds Say Border Fence Not Tough Enough,'' The Associated Press reported this month out of Columbus, N.M., surprising nobody who lives on or near the border. It told of immigrants using acetylene and plasma torches and hacksaws to cut through the 15-foot-high concrete-and-steel barricade. ''Officials monitoring cameras in the area have seen at least one group using a massive ladder to scale the south side of the fence,'' The A.P. reported. ''The group tried to drop into the U.S. with bungee cords before agents caught them.'' 
 Perhaps the federal government could not have anticipated bungee-jumpers. But it should have foreseen the fury of border-community officials, like the coalition of Texas mayors and other public officials, from El Paso to Brownsville, who are fighting furiously to stop the project. 
 The coalition's chairman is Mayor Chad Foster of Eagle Pass, a border town that prides itself on its close ties to its Mexican neighbor, Piedras Negras (the home page at cityofeaglepass.com says, ''Where Yee-Hah Meets Ole''). Mayor Foster is not against security: he has said he thinks floodlights and officers on patrol are a good idea. But he and others say the fence is too easily breached, too disruptive of life and lawful commerce, and thus monumentally stupid.
 Mr. Chertoff's agency is pressing on. The government has begun buying land in south Texas and pressing ahead with lawsuits against landowners who refuse to sell. The battle may be headed to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the illegal flow continues north -- of people pushed by dire poverty and fierce determination, pulled by the mightiest economy on earth, obeying one law that Congress and Mr. Chertoff could never repeal, that of supply and demand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



562 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MESSAGE MACHINE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7915 words

HEADLINE: Behind TV Analysts, Pentagon's Hidden Hand

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW

 BODY:
In the summer of 2005, the Bush administration confronted a fresh wave of criticism over Guantanamo Bay. The detention center had just been branded ''the gulag of our times'' by Amnesty International, there were new allegations of abuse from United Nations human rights experts and calls were mounting for its closure.
 The administration's communications experts responded swiftly. Early one Friday morning, they put a group of retired military officers on one of the jets normally used by Vice President Dick Cheney and flew them to Cuba for a carefully orchestrated tour of Guantanamo.
 To the public, these men are members of a familiar fraternity, presented tens of thousands of times on television and radio as ''military analysts'' whose long service has equipped them to give authoritative and unfettered judgments about the most pressing issues of the post-Sept. 11 world. 
 Hidden behind that appearance of objectivity, though, is a Pentagon information apparatus that has used those analysts in a campaign to generate favorable news coverage of the administration's wartime performance, an examination by The New York Times has found.
 The effort, which began with the buildup to the Iraq war and continues to this day, has sought to exploit ideological and military allegiances, and also a powerful financial dynamic: Most of the analysts have ties to military contractors vested in the very war policies they are asked to assess on air. 
 Those business relationships are hardly ever disclosed to the viewers, and sometimes not even to the networks themselves. But collectively, the men on the plane and several dozen other military analysts represent more than 150 military contractors either as lobbyists, senior executives, board members or consultants. The companies include defense heavyweights, but also scores of smaller companies, all part of a vast assemblage of contractors scrambling for hundreds of billions in military business generated by the administration's war on terror. It is a furious competition, one in which inside information and easy access to senior officials are highly prized.
 Records and interviews show how the Bush administration has used its control over access and information in an effort to transform the analysts into a kind of media Trojan horse -- an instrument intended to shape terrorism coverage from inside the major TV and radio networks. 
 Analysts have been wooed in hundreds of private briefings with senior military leaders, including officials with significant influence over contracting and budget matters, records show. They have been taken on tours of Iraq and given access to classified intelligence. They have been briefed by officials from the White House, State Department and Justice Department, including Mr. Cheney, Alberto R. Gonzales and Stephen J. Hadley. 
 In turn, members of this group have echoed administration talking points, sometimes even when they suspected the information was false or inflated. Some analysts acknowledge they suppressed doubts because they feared jeopardizing their access. 
 A few expressed regret for participating in what they regarded as an effort to dupe the American public with propaganda dressed as independent military analysis.
 ''It was them saying, 'We need to stick our hands up your back and move your mouth for you,' '' Robert S. Bevelacqua, a retired Green Beret and former Fox News analyst, said.
 Kenneth Allard, a former NBC military analyst who has taught information warfare at the National Defense University, said the campaign amounted to a sophisticated information operation. ''This was a coherent, active policy,'' he said. 
 As conditions in Iraq deteriorated, Mr. Allard recalled, he saw a yawning gap between what analysts were told in private briefings and what subsequent inquiries and books later revealed. 
 ''Night and day,'' Mr. Allard said, ''I felt we'd been hosed.'' 
 The Pentagon defended its relationship with military analysts, saying they had been given only factual information about the war. ''The intent and purpose of this is nothing other than an earnest attempt to inform the American people,'' Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman, said.
 It was, Mr. Whitman added, ''a bit incredible'' to think retired military officers could be ''wound up'' and turned into ''puppets of the Defense Department.''
 Many analysts strongly denied that they had either been co-opted or had allowed outside business interests to affect their on-air comments, and some have used their platforms to criticize the conduct of the war. Several, like Jeffrey D. McCausland, a CBS military analyst and defense industry lobbyist, said they kept their networks informed of their outside work and recused themselves from coverage that touched on business interests.
 ''I'm not here representing the administration,'' Dr. McCausland said.
 Some network officials, meanwhile, acknowledged only a limited understanding of their analysts' interactions with the administration. They said that while they were sensitive to potential conflicts of interest, they did not hold their analysts to the same ethical standards as their news employees regarding outside financial interests. The onus is on their analysts to disclose conflicts, they said. And whatever the contributions of military analysts, they also noted the many network journalists who have covered the war for years in all its complexity. 
 Five years into the Iraq war, most details of the architecture and execution of the Pentagon's campaign have never been disclosed. But The Times successfully sued the Defense Department to gain access to 8,000 pages of e-mail messages, transcripts and records describing years of private briefings, trips to Iraq and Guantanamo and an extensive Pentagon talking points operation.
 These records reveal a symbiotic relationship where the usual dividing lines between government and journalism have been obliterated.
 Internal Pentagon documents repeatedly refer to the military analysts as ''message force multipliers'' or ''surrogates'' who could be counted on to deliver administration ''themes and messages'' to millions of Americans ''in the form of their own opinions.''
 Though many analysts are paid network consultants, making $500 to $1,000 per appearance, in Pentagon meetings they sometimes spoke as if they were operating behind enemy lines, interviews and transcripts show. Some offered the Pentagon tips on how to outmaneuver the networks, or as one analyst put it to Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the defense secretary, ''the Chris Matthewses and the Wolf Blitzers of the world.'' Some warned of planned stories or sent the Pentagon copies of their correspondence with network news executives. Many -- although certainly not all -- faithfully echoed talking points intended to counter critics. 
 ''Good work,'' Thomas G. McInerney, a retired Air Force general, consultant and Fox News analyst, wrote to the Pentagon after receiving fresh talking points in late 2006. ''We will use it.''
 Again and again, records show, the administration has enlisted analysts as a rapid reaction force to rebut what it viewed as critical news coverage, some of it by the networks' own Pentagon correspondents. For example, when news articles revealed that troops in Iraq were dying because of inadequate body armor, a senior Pentagon official wrote to his colleagues: ''I think our analysts -- properly armed -- can push back in that arena.''
 The documents released by the Pentagon do not show any quid pro quo between commentary and contracts. But some analysts said they had used the special access as a marketing and networking opportunity or as a window into future business possibilities.
 John C. Garrett is a retired Army colonel and unpaid analyst for Fox News TV and radio. He is also a lobbyist at Patton Boggs who helps firms win Pentagon contracts, including in Iraq. In promotional materials, he states that as a military analyst he ''is privy to weekly access and briefings with the secretary of defense, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other high level policy makers in the administration.'' One client told investors that Mr. Garrett's special access and decades of experience helped him ''to know in advance -- and in detail -- how best to meet the needs'' of the Defense Department and other agencies.
 In interviews Mr. Garrett said there was an inevitable overlap between his dual roles. He said he had gotten ''information you just otherwise would not get,'' from the briefings and three Pentagon-sponsored trips to Iraq. He also acknowledged using this access and information to identify opportunities for clients. ''You can't help but look for that,'' he said, adding, ''If you know a capability that would fill a niche or need, you try to fill it. ''That's good for everybody.''
 At the same time, in e-mail messages to the Pentagon, Mr. Garrett displayed an eagerness to be supportive with his television and radio commentary. ''Please let me know if you have any specific points you want covered or that you would prefer to downplay,'' he wrote in January 2007, before President Bush went on TV to describe the surge strategy in Iraq.
 Conversely, the administration has demonstrated that there is a price for sustained criticism, many analysts said. ''You'll lose all access,'' Dr. McCausland said.
 With a majority of Americans calling the war a mistake despite all administration attempts to sway public opinion, the Pentagon has focused in the last couple of years on cultivating in particular military analysts frequently seen and heard in conservative news outlets, records and interviews show.
 Some of these analysts were on the mission to Cuba on June 24, 2005 -- the first of six such Guantanamo trips -- which was designed to mobilize analysts against the growing perception of Guantanamo as an international symbol of inhumane treatment. On the flight to Cuba, for much of the day at Guantanamo and on the flight home that night, Pentagon officials briefed the 10 or so analysts on their key messages -- how much had been spent improving the facility, the abuse endured by guards, the extensive rights afforded detainees.
 The results came quickly. The analysts went on TV and radio, decrying Amnesty International, criticizing calls to close the facility and asserting that all detainees were treated humanely. 
 ''The impressions that you're getting from the media and from the various pronouncements being made by people who have not been here in my opinion are totally false,'' Donald W. Shepperd, a retired Air Force general, reported live on CNN by phone from Guantanamo that same afternoon. 
 The next morning, Montgomery Meigs, a retired Army general and NBC analyst, appeared on ''Today.'' ''There's been over $100 million of new construction,'' he reported. ''The place is very professionally run.'' 
 Within days, transcripts of the analysts' appearances were circulated to senior White House and Pentagon officials, cited as evidence of progress in the battle for hearts and minds at home.
 Charting the Campaign
 By early 2002, detailed planning for a possible Iraq invasion was under way, yet an obstacle loomed. Many Americans, polls showed, were uneasy about invading a country with no clear connection to the Sept. 11 attacks. Pentagon and White House officials believed the military analysts could play a crucial role in helping overcome this resistance.
 Torie Clarke, the former public relations executive who oversaw the Pentagon's dealings with the analysts as assistant secretary of defense for public affairs, had come to her job with distinct ideas about achieving what she called ''information dominance.'' In a spin-saturated news culture, she argued, opinion is swayed most by voices perceived as authoritative and utterly independent.
 And so even before Sept. 11, she built a system within the Pentagon to recruit ''key influentials'' -- movers and shakers from all walks who with the proper ministrations might be counted on to generate support for Mr. Rumsfeld's priorities.
 In the months after Sept. 11, as every network rushed to retain its own all-star squad of retired military officers, Ms. Clarke and her staff sensed a new opportunity. To Ms. Clarke's team, the military analysts were the ultimate ''key influential'' -- authoritative, most of them decorated war heroes, all reaching mass audiences.
 The analysts, they noticed, often got more airtime than network reporters, and they were not merely explaining the capabilities of Apache helicopters. They were framing how viewers ought to interpret events. What is more, while the analysts were in the news media, they were not of the news media. They were military men, many of them ideologically in sync with the administration's neoconservative brain trust, many of them important players in a military industry anticipating large budget increases to pay for an Iraq war.
 Even analysts with no defense industry ties, and no fondness for the administration, were reluctant to be critical of military leaders, many of whom were friends. ''It is very hard for me to criticize the United States Army,'' said William L. Nash, a retired Army general and ABC analyst. ''It is my life.''
 Other administrations had made sporadic, small-scale attempts to build relationships with the occasional military analyst. But these were trifling compared with what Ms. Clarke's team had in mind. Don Meyer, an aide to Ms. Clarke, said a strategic decision was made in 2002 to make the analysts the main focus of the public relations push to construct a case for war. Journalists were secondary. ''We didn't want to rely on them to be our primary vehicle to get information out,'' Mr. Meyer said. 
 The Pentagon's regular press office would be kept separate from the military analysts. The analysts would instead be catered to by a small group of political appointees, with the point person being Brent T. Krueger, another senior aide to Ms. Clarke. The decision recalled other administration tactics that subverted traditional journalism. Federal agencies, for example, have paid columnists to write favorably about the administration. They have distributed to local TV stations hundreds of fake news segments with fawning accounts of administration accomplishments. The Pentagon itself has made covert payments to Iraqi newspapers to publish coalition propaganda.
 Rather than complain about the ''media filter,'' each of these techniques simply converted the filter into an amplifier. This time, Mr. Krueger said, the military analysts would in effect be ''writing the op-ed'' for the war.
 Assembling the Team
 From the start, interviews show, the White House took a keen interest in which analysts had been identified by the Pentagon, requesting lists of potential recruits, and suggesting names. Ms. Clarke's team wrote summaries describing their backgrounds, business affiliations and where they stood on the war. 
 ''Rumsfeld ultimately cleared off on all invitees,'' said Mr. Krueger, who left the Pentagon in 2004. (Through a spokesman, Mr. Rumsfeld declined to comment for this article.)
 Over time, the Pentagon recruited more than 75 retired officers, although some participated only briefly or sporadically. The largest contingent was affiliated with Fox News, followed by NBC and CNN, the other networks with 24-hour cable outlets. But analysts from CBS and ABC were included, too. Some recruits, though not on any network payroll, were influential in other ways -- either because they were sought out by radio hosts, or because they often published op-ed articles or were quoted in magazines, Web sites and newspapers. At least nine of them have written op-ed articles for The Times.
 The group was heavily represented by men involved in the business of helping companies win military contracts. Several held senior positions with contractors that gave them direct responsibility for winning new Pentagon business. James Marks, a retired Army general and analyst for CNN from 2004 to 2007, pursued military and intelligence contracts as a senior executive with McNeil Technologies. Still others held board positions with military firms that gave them responsibility for government business. General McInerney, the Fox analyst, for example, sits on the boards of several military contractors, including Nortel Government Solutions, a supplier of communication networks.
 Several were defense industry lobbyists, such as Dr. McCausland, who works at Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney, a major lobbying firm where he is director of a national security team that represents several military contractors. ''We offer clients access to key decision makers,'' Dr. McCausland's team promised on the firm's Web site. 
 Dr. McCausland was not the only analyst making this pledge. Another was Joseph W. Ralston, a retired Air Force general. Soon after signing on with CBS, General Ralston was named vice chairman of the Cohen Group, a consulting firm headed by a former defense secretary, William Cohen, himself now a ''world affairs'' analyst for CNN. ''The Cohen Group knows that getting to 'yes' in the aerospace and defense market -- whether in the United States or abroad -- requires that companies have a thorough, up-to-date understanding of the thinking of government decision makers,'' the company tells prospective clients on its Web site. 
 There were also ideological ties. 
 Two of NBC's most prominent analysts, Barry R. McCaffrey and the late Wayne A. Downing, were on the advisory board of the Committee for the Liberation of Iraq, an advocacy group created with White House encouragement in 2002 to help make the case for ousting Saddam Hussein. Both men also had their own consulting firms and sat on the boards of major military contractors.
 Many also shared with Mr. Bush's national security team a belief that pessimistic war coverage broke the nation's will to win in Vietnam, and there was a mutual resolve not to let that happen with this war. 
 This was a major theme, for example, with Paul E. Vallely, a Fox News analyst from 2001 to 2007. A retired Army general who had specialized in psychological warfare, Mr. Vallely co-authored a paper in 1980 that accused American news organizations of failing to defend the nation from ''enemy'' propaganda during Vietnam. 
 ''We lost the war -- not because we were outfought, but because we were out Psyoped,'' he wrote. He urged a radically new approach to psychological operations in future wars -- taking aim at not just foreign adversaries but domestic audiences, too. He called his approach ''MindWar'' -- using network TV and radio to ''strengthen our national will to victory.''
 The Selling of the War
 From their earliest sessions with the military analysts, Mr. Rumsfeld and his aides spoke as if they were all part of the same team.
 In interviews, participants described a powerfully seductive environment -- the uniformed escorts to Mr. Rumsfeld's private conference room, the best government china laid out, the embossed name cards, the blizzard of PowerPoints, the solicitations of advice and counsel, the appeals to duty and country, the warm thank you notes from the secretary himself. 
 ''Oh, you have no idea,'' Mr. Allard said, describing the effect. ''You're back. They listen to you. They listen to what you say on TV.'' It was, he said, ''psyops on steroids'' -- a nuanced exercise in influence through flattery and proximity. ''It's not like it's, 'We'll pay you $500 to get our story out,' '' he said. ''It's more subtle.''
 The access came with a condition. Participants were instructed not to quote their briefers directly or otherwise describe their contacts with the Pentagon. 
 In the fall and winter leading up to the invasion, the Pentagon armed its analysts with talking points portraying Iraq as an urgent threat. The basic case became a familiar mantra: Iraq possessed chemical and biological weapons, was developing nuclear weapons, and might one day slip some to Al Qaeda; an invasion would be a relatively quick and inexpensive ''war of liberation.''
 At the Pentagon, members of Ms. Clarke's staff marveled at the way the analysts seamlessly incorporated material from talking points and briefings as if it was their own. 
 ''You could see that they were messaging,'' Mr. Krueger said. ''You could see they were taking verbatim what the secretary was saying or what the technical specialists were saying. And they were saying it over and over and over.'' Some days, he added, ''We were able to click on every single station and every one of our folks were up there delivering our message. You'd look at them and say, 'This is working.' ''
 On April 12, 2003, with major combat almost over, Mr. Rumsfeld drafted a memorandum to Ms. Clarke. ''Let's think about having some of the folks who did such a good job as talking heads in after this thing is over,'' he wrote.
 By summer, though, the first signs of the insurgency had emerged. Reports from journalists based in Baghdad were increasingly suffused with the imagery of mayhem.
 The Pentagon did not have to search far for a counterweight.
 It was time, an internal Pentagon strategy memorandum urged, to ''re-energize surrogates and message-force multipliers,'' starting with the military analysts.
 The memorandum led to a proposal to take analysts on a tour of Iraq in September 2003, timed to help overcome the sticker shock from Mr. Bush's request for $87 billion in emergency war financing. 
 The group included four analysts from Fox News, one each from CNN and ABC, and several research-group luminaries whose opinion articles appear regularly in the nation's op-ed pages.
 The trip invitation promised a look at ''the real situation on the ground in Iraq.''
 The situation, as described in scores of books, was deteriorating. L. Paul Bremer III, then the American viceroy in Iraq, wrote in his memoir, ''My Year in Iraq,'' that he had privately warned the White House that the United States had ''about half the number of soldiers we needed here.''
 ''We're up against a growing and sophisticated threat,'' Mr. Bremer recalled telling the president during a private White House dinner.
 That dinner took place on Sept. 24, while the analysts were touring Iraq.
 Yet these harsh realities were elided, or flatly contradicted, during the official presentations for the analysts, records show. The itinerary, scripted to the minute, featured brief visits to a model school, a few refurbished government buildings, a center for women's rights, a mass grave and even the gardens of Babylon.
 Mostly the analysts attended briefings. These sessions, records show, spooled out an alternative narrative, depicting an Iraq bursting with political and economic energy, its security forces blossoming. On the crucial question of troop levels, the briefings echoed the White House line: No reinforcements were needed. The ''growing and sophisticated threat'' described by Mr. Bremer was instead depicted as degraded, isolated and on the run.
 ''We're winning,'' a briefing document proclaimed.
 One trip participant, General Nash of ABC, said some briefings were so clearly ''artificial'' that he joked to another group member that they were on ''the George Romney memorial trip to Iraq,'' a reference to Mr. Romney's infamous claim that American officials had ''brainwashed'' him into supporting the Vietnam War during a tour there in 1965, while he was governor of Michigan.
 But if the trip pounded the message of progress, it also represented a business opportunity: direct access to the most senior civilian and military leaders in Iraq and Kuwait, including many with a say in how the president's $87 billion would be spent. It also was a chance to gather inside information about the most pressing needs confronting the American mission: the acute shortages of ''up-armored'' Humvees; the billions to be spent building military bases; the urgent need for interpreters; and the ambitious plans to train Iraq's security forces.
 Information and access of this nature had undeniable value for trip participants like William V. Cowan and Carlton A. Sherwood.
 Mr. Cowan, a Fox analyst and retired Marine colonel, was the chief executive of a new military firm, the wvc3 Group. Mr. Sherwood was its executive vice president. At the time, the company was seeking contracts worth tens of millions to supply body armor and counterintelligence services in Iraq. In addition, wvc3 Group had a written agreement to use its influence and connections to help tribal leaders in Al Anbar Province win reconstruction contracts from the coalition.
 ''Those sheiks wanted access to the C.P.A.,'' Mr. Cowan recalled in an interview, referring to the Coalition Provisional Authority. 
 Mr. Cowan said he pleaded their cause during the trip. ''I tried to push hard with some of Bremer's people to engage these people of Al Anbar,'' he said.
 Back in Washington, Pentagon officials kept a nervous eye on how the trip translated on the airwaves. Uncomfortable facts had bubbled up during the trip. One briefer, for example, mentioned that the Army was resorting to packing inadequately armored Humvees with sandbags and Kevlar blankets. Descriptions of the Iraqi security forces were withering. ''They can't shoot, but then again, they don't,'' one officer told them, according to one participant's notes.
 ''I saw immediately in 2003 that things were going south,'' General Vallely, one of the Fox analysts on the trip, recalled in an interview with The Times. 
 The Pentagon, though, need not have worried. 
 ''You can't believe the progress,'' General Vallely told Alan Colmes of Fox News upon his return. He predicted the insurgency would be ''down to a few numbers'' within months.
 ''We could not be more excited, more pleased,'' Mr. Cowan told Greta Van Susteren of Fox News. There was barely a word about armor shortages or corrupt Iraqi security forces. And on the key strategic question of the moment -- whether to send more troops -- the analysts were unanimous.
 ''I am so much against adding more troops,'' General Shepperd said on CNN. 
 Access and Influence
 Inside the Pentagon and at the White House, the trip was viewed as a masterpiece in the management of perceptions, not least because it gave fuel to complaints that ''mainstream'' journalists were ignoring the good news in Iraq. 
 ''We're hitting a home run on this trip,'' a senior Pentagon official wrote in an e-mail message to Richard B. Myers and Peter Pace, then chairman and vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
 Its success only intensified the Pentagon's campaign. The pace of briefings accelerated. More trips were organized. Eventually the effort involved officials from Washington to Baghdad to Kabul to Guantanamo and back to Tampa, Fla., the headquarters of United States Central Command.
 The scale reflected strong support from the top. When officials in Iraq were slow to organize another trip for analysts, a Pentagon official fired off an e-mail message warning that the trips ''have the highest levels of visibility'' at the White House and urging them to get moving before Lawrence Di Rita, one of Mr. Rumsfeld's closest aides, ''picks up the phone and starts calling the 4-stars.''
 Mr. Di Rita, no longer at the Defense Department, said in an interview that a ''conscious decision'' was made to rely on the military analysts to counteract ''the increasingly negative view of the war'' coming from journalists in Iraq. The analysts, he said, generally had ''a more supportive view'' of the administration and the war, and the combination of their TV platforms and military cachet made them ideal for rebutting critical coverage of issues like troop morale, treatment of detainees, inadequate equipment or poorly trained Iraqi security forces. ''On those issues, they were more likely to be seen as credible spokesmen,'' he said.
 For analysts with military industry ties, the attention brought access to a widening circle of influential officials beyond the contacts they had accumulated over the course of their careers. 
 Charles T. Nash, a Fox military analyst and retired Navy captain, is a consultant who helps small companies break into the military market. Suddenly, he had entree to a host of senior military leaders, many of whom he had never met. It was, he said, like being embedded with the Pentagon leadership. ''You start to recognize what's most important to them,'' he said, adding, ''There's nothing like seeing stuff firsthand.'' 
 Some Pentagon officials said they were well aware that some analysts viewed their special access as a business advantage. ''Of course we realized that,'' Mr. Krueger said. ''We weren't naive about that.''
 They also understood the financial relationship between the networks and their analysts. Many analysts were being paid by the ''hit,'' the number of times they appeared on TV. The more an analyst could boast of fresh inside information from high-level Pentagon ''sources,'' the more hits he could expect. The more hits, the greater his potential influence in the military marketplace, where several analysts prominently advertised their network roles. 
 ''They have taken lobbying and the search for contracts to a far higher level,'' Mr. Krueger said. ''This has been highly honed.'' 
 Mr. Di Rita, though, said it never occurred to him that analysts might use their access to curry favor. Nor, he said, did the Pentagon try to exploit this dynamic. ''That's not something that ever crossed my mind,'' he said. In any event, he argued, the analysts and the networks were the ones responsible for any ethical complications. ''We assume they know where the lines are,'' he said.
 The analysts met personally with Mr. Rumsfeld at least 18 times, records show, but that was just the beginning. They had dozens more sessions with the most senior members of his brain trust and access to officials responsible for managing the billions being spent in Iraq. Other groups of ''key influentials'' had meetings, but not nearly as often as the analysts. 
 An internal memorandum in 2005 helped explain why. The memorandum, written by a Pentagon official who had accompanied analysts to Iraq, said that based on her observations during the trip, the analysts ''are having a greater impact'' on network coverage of the military. ''They have now become the go-to guys not only on breaking stories, but they influence the views on issues,'' she wrote.
 Other branches of the administration also began to make use of the analysts. Mr. Gonzales, then the attorney general, met with them soon after news leaked that the government was wiretapping terrorism suspects in the United States without warrants, Pentagon records show. When David H. Petraeus was appointed the commanding general in Iraq in January 2007, one of his early acts was to meet with the analysts.
 ''We knew we had extraordinary access,'' said Timur J. Eads, a retired Army lieutenant colonel and Fox analyst who is vice president of government relations for Blackbird Technologies, a fast-growing military contractor.
 Like several other analysts, Mr. Eads said he had at times held his tongue on television for fear that ''some four-star could call up and say, 'Kill that contract.' '' For example, he believed Pentagon officials misled the analysts about the progress of Iraq's security forces. ''I know a snow job when I see one,'' he said. He did not share this on TV. 
 ''Human nature,'' he explained, though he noted other instances when he was critical.
 Some analysts said that even before the war started, they privately had questions about the justification for the invasion, but were careful not to express them on air.
 Mr. Bevelacqua, then a Fox analyst, was among those invited to a briefing in early 2003 about Iraq's purported stockpiles of illicit weapons. He recalled asking the briefer whether the United States had ''smoking gun'' proof.
 '' 'We don't have any hard evidence,' '' Mr. Bevelacqua recalled the briefer replying. He said he and other analysts were alarmed by this concession. ''We are looking at ourselves saying, 'What are we doing?' '' 
 Another analyst, Robert L. Maginnis, a retired Army lieutenant colonel who works in the Pentagon for a military contractor, attended the same briefing and recalled feeling ''very disappointed'' after being shown satellite photographs purporting to show bunkers associated with a hidden weapons program. Mr. Maginnis said he concluded that the analysts were being ''manipulated'' to convey a false sense of certainty about the evidence of the weapons. Yet he and Mr. Bevelacqua and the other analysts who attended the briefing did not share any misgivings with the American public. 
 Mr. Bevelacqua and another Fox analyst, Mr. Cowan, had formed the wvc3 Group, and hoped to win military and national security contracts.
 ''There's no way I was going to go down that road and get completely torn apart,'' Mr. Bevelacqua said. ''You're talking about fighting a huge machine.'' 
 Some e-mail messages between the Pentagon and the analysts reveal an implicit trade of privileged access for favorable coverage. Robert H. Scales Jr., a retired Army general and analyst for Fox News and National Public Radio whose consulting company advises several military firms on weapons and tactics used in Iraq, wanted the Pentagon to approve high-level briefings for him inside Iraq in 2006.
 ''Recall the stuff I did after my last visit,'' he wrote. ''I will do the same this time.''
 Pentagon Keeps Tabs
 As it happened, the analysts' news media appearances were being closely monitored. The Pentagon paid a private contractor, Omnitec Solutions, hundreds of thousands of dollars to scour databases for any trace of the analysts, be it a segment on ''The O'Reilly Factor'' or an interview with The Daily Inter Lake in Montana, circulation 20,000. 
 Omnitec evaluated their appearances using the same tools as corporate branding experts. One report, assessing the impact of several trips to Iraq in 2005, offered example after example of analysts echoing Pentagon themes on all the networks.
 ''Commentary from all three Iraq trips was extremely positive over all,'' the report concluded.
 In interviews, several analysts reacted with dismay when told they were described as reliable ''surrogates'' in Pentagon documents. And some asserted that their Pentagon sessions were, as David L. Grange, a retired Army general and CNN analyst put it, ''just upfront information,'' while others pointed out, accurately, that they did not always agree with the administration or each other. ''None of us drink the Kool-Aid,'' General Scales said.
 Likewise, several also denied using their special access for business gain. ''Not related at all,'' General Shepperd said, pointing out that many in the Pentagon held CNN ''in the lowest esteem.'' 
 Still, even the mildest of criticism could draw a challenge. Several analysts told of fielding telephone calls from displeased defense officials only minutes after being on the air.
 On Aug. 3, 2005, 14 marines died in Iraq. That day, Mr. Cowan, who said he had grown increasingly uncomfortable with the ''twisted version of reality'' being pushed on analysts in briefings, called the Pentagon to give ''a heads-up'' that some of his comments on Fox ''may not all be friendly,'' Pentagon records show. Mr. Rumsfeld's senior aides quickly arranged a private briefing for him, yet when he told Bill O'Reilly that the United States was ''not on a good glide path right now'' in Iraq, the repercussions were swift.
 Mr. Cowan said he was ''precipitously fired from the analysts group'' for this appearance. The Pentagon, he wrote in an e-mail message, ''simply didn't like the fact that I wasn't carrying their water.'' The next day James T. Conway, then director of operations for the Joint Chiefs, presided over another conference call with analysts. He urged them, a transcript shows, not to let the marines' deaths further erode support for the war.
 ''The strategic target remains our population,'' General Conway said. ''We can lose people day in and day out, but they're never going to beat our military. What they can and will do if they can is strip away our support. And you guys can help us not let that happen.''
 ''General, I just made that point on the air,'' an analyst replied.
 ''Let's work it together, guys,'' General Conway urged.
 The Generals' Revolt
 The full dimensions of this mutual embrace were perhaps never clearer than in April 2006, after several of Mr. Rumsfeld's former generals -- none of them network military analysts -- went public with devastating critiques of his wartime performance. Some called for his resignation.
 On Friday, April 14, with what came to be called the ''Generals' Revolt'' dominating headlines, Mr. Rumsfeld instructed aides to summon military analysts to a meeting with him early the next week, records show. When an aide urged a short delay to ''give our big guys on the West Coast a little more time to buy a ticket and get here,'' Mr. Rumsfeld's office insisted that ''the boss'' wanted the meeting fast ''for impact on the current story.'' 
 That same day, Pentagon officials helped two Fox analysts, General McInerney and General Vallely, write an opinion article for The Wall Street Journal defending Mr. Rumsfeld.
 ''Starting to write it now,'' General Vallely wrote to the Pentagon that afternoon. ''Any input for the article,'' he added a little later, ''will be much appreciated.'' Mr. Rumsfeld's office quickly forwarded talking points and statistics to rebut the notion of a spreading revolt.
 ''Vallely is going to use the numbers,'' a Pentagon official reported that afternoon.
 The standard secrecy notwithstanding, plans for this session leaked, producing a front-page story in The Times that Sunday. In damage-control mode, Pentagon officials scrambled to present the meeting as routine and directed that communications with analysts be kept ''very formal,'' records show. ''This is very, very sensitive now,'' a Pentagon official warned subordinates. 
 On Tuesday, April 18, some 17 analysts assembled at the Pentagon with Mr. Rumsfeld and General Pace, then the chairman of the Joint Chiefs. 
 A transcript of that session, never before disclosed, shows a shared determination to marginalize war critics and revive public support for the war. 
 ''I'm an old intel guy,'' said one analyst. (The transcript omits speakers' names.) ''And I can sum all of this up, unfortunately, with one word. That is Psyops. Now most people may hear that and they think, 'Oh my God, they're trying to brainwash.' '' 
 ''What are you, some kind of a nut?'' Mr. Rumsfeld cut in, drawing laughter. ''You don't believe in the Constitution?''
 There was little discussion about the actual criticism pouring forth from Mr. Rumsfeld's former generals. Analysts argued that opposition to the war was rooted in perceptions fed by the news media, not reality. The administration's overall war strategy, they counseled, was ''brilliant'' and ''very successful.''
 ''Frankly,'' one participant said, ''from a military point of view, the penalty, 2,400 brave Americans whom we lost, 3,000 in an hour and 15 minutes, is relative.''
 An analyst said at another point: ''This is a wider war. And whether we have democracy in Iraq or not, it doesn't mean a tinker's damn if we end up with the result we want, which is a regime over there that's not a threat to us.''
 ''Yeah,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, taking notes.
 But winning or not, they bluntly warned, the administration was in grave political danger so long as most Americans viewed Iraq as a lost cause. ''America hates a loser,'' one analyst said. 
 Much of the session was devoted to ways that Mr. Rumsfeld could reverse the ''political tide.'' One analyst urged Mr. Rumsfeld to ''just crush these people,'' and assured him that ''most of the gentlemen at the table'' would enthusiastically support him if he did. 
 ''You are the leader,'' the analyst told Mr. Rumsfeld. ''You are our guy.'' 
 At another point, an analyst made a suggestion: ''In one of your speeches you ought to say, 'Everybody stop for a minute and imagine an Iraq ruled by Zarqawi.' And then you just go down the list and say, 'All right, we've got oil, money, sovereignty, access to the geographic center of gravity of the Middle East, blah, blah, blah.' If you can just paint a mental picture for Joe America to say, 'Oh my God, I can't imagine a world like that.' '' 
 Even as they assured Mr. Rumsfeld that they stood ready to help in this public relations offensive, the analysts sought guidance on what they should cite as the next ''milestone'' that would, as one analyst put it, ''keep the American people focused on the idea that we're moving forward to a positive end.'' They placed particular emphasis on the growing confrontation with Iran. 
 ''When you said 'long war,' you changed the psyche of the American people to expect this to be a generational event,'' an analyst said. ''And again, I'm not trying to tell you how to do your job...'' 
 ''Get in line,'' Mr. Rumsfeld interjected.
 The meeting ended and Mr. Rumsfeld, appearing pleased and relaxed, took the entire group into a small study and showed off treasured keepsakes from his life, several analysts recalled.
 Soon after, analysts hit the airwaves. The Omnitec monitoring reports, circulated to more than 80 officials, confirmed that analysts repeated many of the Pentagon's talking points: that Mr. Rumsfeld consulted ''frequently and sufficiently'' with his generals; that he was not ''overly concerned'' with the criticisms; that the meeting focused ''on more important topics at hand,'' including the next milestone in Iraq, the formation of a new government. 
 Days later, Mr. Rumsfeld wrote a memorandum distilling their collective guidance into bullet points. Two were underlined:
 ''Focus on the Global War on Terror -- not simply Iraq. The wider war -- the long war.''
 ''Link Iraq to Iran. Iran is the concern. If we fail in Iraq or Afghanistan, it will help Iran.''
 But if Mr. Rumsfeld found the session instructive, at least one participant, General Nash, the ABC analyst, was repulsed. 
 ''I walked away from that session having total disrespect for my fellow commentators, with perhaps one or two exceptions,'' he said.
 View From the Networks
 Two weeks ago General Petraeus took time out from testifying before Congress about Iraq for a conference call with military analysts.
 Mr. Garrett, the Fox analyst and Patton Boggs lobbyist, said he told General Petraeus during the call to ''keep up the great work.''
 ''Hey,'' Mr. Garrett said in an interview, ''anything we can do to help.''
 For the moment, though, because of heavy election coverage and general war fatigue, military analysts are not getting nearly as much TV time, and the networks have trimmed their rosters of analysts. The conference call with General Petraeus, for example, produced little in the way of immediate coverage.
 Still, almost weekly the Pentagon continues to conduct briefings with selected military analysts. Many analysts said network officials were only dimly aware of these interactions. The networks, they said, have little grasp of how often they meet with senior officials, or what is discussed.
 ''I don't think NBC was even aware we were participating,'' said Rick Francona, a longtime military analyst for the network. 
 Some networks publish biographies on their Web sites that describe their analysts' military backgrounds and, in some cases, give at least limited information about their business ties. But many analysts also said the networks asked few questions about their outside business interests, the nature of their work or the potential for that work to create conflicts of interest. ''None of that ever happened,'' said Mr. Allard, an NBC analyst until 2006.
 ''The worst conflict of interest was no interest.''
 Mr. Allard and other analysts said their network handlers also raised no objections when the Defense Department began paying their commercial airfare for Pentagon-sponsored trips to Iraq -- a clear ethical violation for most news organizations.
 CBS News declined to comment on what it knew about its military analysts' business affiliations or what steps it took to guard against potential conflicts.
 NBC News also declined to discuss its procedures for hiring and monitoring military analysts. The network issued a short statement: ''We have clear policies in place to assure that the people who appear on our air have been appropriately vetted and that nothing in their profile would lead to even a perception of a conflict of interest.''
 Jeffrey W. Schneider, a spokesman for ABC, said that while the network's military consultants were not held to the same ethical rules as its full-time journalists, they were expected to keep the network informed about any outside business entanglements. ''We make it clear to them we expect them to keep us closely apprised,'' he said.
 A spokeswoman for Fox News said executives ''refused to participate'' in this article.
 CNN requires its military analysts to disclose in writing all outside sources of income. But like the other networks, it does not provide its military analysts with the kind of written, specific ethical guidelines it gives its full-time employees for avoiding real or apparent conflicts of interest. 
 Yet even where controls exist, they have sometimes proven porous.
 CNN, for example, said it was unaware for nearly three years that one of its main military analysts, General Marks, was deeply involved in the business of seeking government contracts, including contracts related to Iraq.
 General Marks was hired by CNN in 2004, about the time he took a management position at McNeil Technologies, where his job was to pursue military and intelligence contracts. As required, General Marks disclosed that he received income from McNeil Technologies. But the disclosure form did not require him to describe what his job entailed, and CNN acknowledges it failed to do additional vetting.
 ''We did not ask Mr. Marks the follow-up questions we should have,'' CNN said in a written statement.
 In an interview, General Marks said it was no secret at CNN that his job at McNeil Technologies was about winning contracts. ''I mean, that's what McNeil does,'' he said.
 CNN, however, said it did not know the nature of McNeil's military business or what General Marks did for the company. If he was bidding on Pentagon contracts, CNN said, that should have disqualified him from being a military analyst for the network. But in the summer and fall of 2006, even as he was regularly asked to comment on conditions in Iraq, General Marks was working intensively on bidding for a $4.6 billion contract to provide thousands of translators to United States forces in Iraq. In fact, General Marks was made president of the McNeil spin-off that won the huge contract in December 2006. 
 General Marks said his work on the contract did not affect his commentary on CNN. ''I've got zero challenge separating myself from a business interest,'' he said.
 But CNN said it had no idea about his role in the contract until July 2007, when it reviewed his most recent disclosure form, submitted months earlier, and finally made inquiries about his new job. 
 ''We saw the extent of his dealings and determined at that time we should end our relationship with him,'' CNN said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the Pentagon's relationship with news media military analysts misidentified the military affiliation of one analyst, John C. Garrett. He retired as a colonel from the Marines, not the Army.
The continuation of an article on Sunday about a Pentagon effort to use military analysts to generate favorable news coverage carried 10 paragraphs that were partly obscured in some editions by a chart.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A PENTAGON CAMPAIGN: Retired officers have been used to shape terrorism coverage from inside the TV and radio networks.(pg. A1)
(pg. 24) CHARTS: Describing the Program: In memorandums and e-mail messages obtained by The Times, Defense Department officials describe the goals and mission of a program to shape public opinion about the Iraq war through retired military officers who are media analysts. Key passages are highlighted by The Times.
Molding the Message: The Defense Department has supplied military analysts with thousands of talking points since 2002. Many were echoed on TV. Charts detail associated newspaper clippings detailing the following: From a Nov. 1, 2006, e-mail message about ''media experts visit proposal''
From a May 16, 2006, e-mail message about ''Taking groups to Iraq/Afghanistan''
From a Sept. 14, 2006, memorandum titled ''Itinerary for Defense Analysts''
 and Talking points issued in December 2002 and February 2003. (pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



563 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: The Wage That Meant Middle Class

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Whatever Senator Barack Obama meant by his less than artful remarks about small-town Pennsylvanians ''bitter'' over lost jobs, he certainly turned a lot of attention last week to the decline of the American worker, bitter or not. 
 The talk most often has been of shuttered factories, layoffs, outsourcing and other effects of globalization, especially in a state like Pennsylvania, which has lost tens of thousands of industrial jobs. But there is another way to look at blue-collar workers or their counterparts in the service sector.
 Leaving aside for a moment those who have lost their jobs, what of those who still have them? Once upon a time, a large number earned at least $20 an hour, or its inflation-adjusted equivalent, and now so many of them don't.
 The $20 hourly wage, introduced on a huge scale in the middle of the last century, allowed masses of Americans with no more than a high school education to rise to the middle class. It was a marker, of sorts. And it is on its way to extinction. 
 Americans greeted the loss with anger and protest when it first began to happen in big numbers in the late 1970s, particularly in the steel industry in Western Pennsylvania. But as layoffs persisted, in Pennsylvania and across the country, through the '80s and '90s and right up to today, the protests subsided and acquiescence set in. 
 Hourly workers had come a long way from the days when employers and unions negotiated a way for them to earn the prizes of the middle class -- houses, cars, college educations for their children, comfortable retirements. Even now a residual of that golden age remains, notably in the auto industry. But here, too, wages are falling below the $20-an-hour threshold -- $41,600 annually -- that many experts consider the minimum income necessary to put a family of four into the middle class. 
 The nation's political leaders -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- have argued that education and training are a route back to middle-class wages for those who have fallen out. But the demand isn't sufficient to absorb all the workers that the leaders would educate. Even now, roughly 15 percent of college-educated workers find themselves in jobs for which they are overqualified, the Economic Policy Institute reports, and many of these jobs pay less than $20 an hour. 
 ''People are mainly worried about having a job and only secondly what it pays and whether they are gaining ground,'' said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, trying to explain the absence of an outcry and a political debate in which the candidates do not quantify the decline. ''If you aren't gaining ground,'' Mr. Levy added, ''then you look for other ways to pay for consumption, going into debt or, until recently, refinancing your home.'' 
 Still, the erosion haunts the presidential campaign. Mr. Obama, competing against Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Pennsylvania primary to be held on Tuesday, touched this nerve in his description of small-town voters who ''cling'' to their guns and their religion in their resentment over lost jobs. It was a description that prompted John McCain, the Republican candidate, to label Mr. Obama an ''elitist,'' and Mrs. Clinton to portray him as out of touch with small-town sentiment. But like Mr. Obama, neither spoke of dollars missing from paychecks, or of the disappearing $20-an-hour wage. 
 That basic wage blossomed first in the auto industry in 1948 and served, in effect, as a banner in the ideological struggle with the Soviet Union. As the news media frequently noted, salt-of-the-earth American workers were earning enough to pay for comforts that their counterparts behind the Iron Curtain could not afford. 
 As the years passed, unions succeeded in negotiating this basic wage not as an ultimate goal but as an early rung in their wage ladders. That was the union standard, particularly in heavy industries, and in the early postwar decades nonunion employers fell into line, spreading middle-class incomes broadly through the service sector. 
 ''The most important model that rolled off the Detroit assembly lines in the 20th century,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California at Berkeley, ''was the middle class for blue-collar workers.'' 
 The high point came in the 1970s, just as the United States was beginning to lose its controlling grip on the economies of the non-Communist world. Since then the percentage of people earning at least $20 an hour has eroded in every sector of the economy, falling last year to 18 percent of all hourly workers from 23 percent in 1979 -- a gradual unwinding of the post-World War II gains.
 The decline is greatest in manufacturing, where only 1.9 million hourly workers still earn that much. That's down nearly 60 percent since 1979, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. 
 The shrinkage is sometimes quite open. The Big Three automakers are currently buying out more than 25,000 employees who earn above $20 an hour, replacing many with new hires tied to a ''second tier'' wage scale that never quite reaches $20. A similar buyout last year removed 80,000 auto workers. Many were not replaced, but many were, with the new hires paid today at the non-middle-class scale, and with fewer benefits. 
 The United Auto Workers agreed to this arrangement, accepting management's argument that it must have labor cost relief to rebound and prosper. Whatever the justification, the new accord in effect abandoned the 1948 contract. That agreement is still hailed as historic. In contrast, the 2007 contract that reversed it is hardly recognized as a significant event in labor history. ''It is significant,'' Mr. Shaiken insisted, referring to last year's contract. ''The Big Three and the U.A.W. were the model for industrial America at its zenith.''
 This time the auto workers weren't first. They ratified a practice that had spread to tire makers, heavy-equipment manufacturers, parts plants, groceries, retailers and longshoremen, diluting older workers' resistance by preserving their status, while lowering earning power for new hires. 
 Two tiers is one tactic. Another is filling middle-income jobs with temporary workers earning less. Add outsourcing to the list, and the off-shoring of such middle-income work as computer programming and radiology. Then there are the manufacturers who close a union plant and shift production to a nonunion one, often in the South but also in the Midwest. 
 When Whirlpool, for example, acquired Maytag last year it closed a Maytag washing machine factory in Newton, Iowa, that had employed hundreds of workers at more than $20 an hour and shifted production to its plant in Clyde, Ohio, adding hundreds of workers at $17 an hour.
 Put givebacks on the list as well. Tens of thousands of workers have accepted wage cuts pressed on them by embattled employers, cuts that in many cases pushed their wages below middle-class levels. Flight attendants are a notable example. And as each new group acquiesces, the standard for what constitutes an acceptable wage comes down in America.
 ''You can't have an economy heavily invested in tradable goods and services that is completely oblivious to global wages,'' said Ron Bloom, special assistant to the president of the United Steelworkers. 
 The decline is most significant in the data that the Bureau of Labor Statistics collects for the nation's hourly work force, which totals 76 million, or 52 percent of all workers, and ranges from managers and professionals to factory and construction workers to technicians, educators and sales people. The wages of many salaried workers show a similar trend, although the bureau does not convert their pay into hourly amounts. 
 The trend in the hourly work force is striking. Take only the peak years in each business cycle, starting in 1979. The proportion earning at least $20 an hour declined from 23 percent that year, to 20 percent in 1980, to 18 percent in 1989, and to 16 percent in 2000. Manufacturing was hit the hardest.
 The current business cycle brought some relief. It reached its peak last year, before plunging into what now appears to be the opening months of a stiff recession. In 2007, before the plunge, the percentage of middle-income hourly workers earning at least $20 an hour had risen, to 18 percent. The improvement came mainly from a rising proportion of women in higher-end hourly work. 
 Wages also held up in the public sector. Strip out that sector, and only 16 percent of privately employed hourly workers took home at least $20 an hour, just fractionally above the 2000 level. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STILL WORKING: Steelworkers on a shift change in Braddock, Pa., awaited Senator Barack Obama last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



564 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; A PLEA FOR HELP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Scrambling for Food April 13-19

 BODY:
THE NEWS The president of the World Bank called on governments to contribute $500 million in aid to help poor countries cope with food prices that have doubled in the last three years.
 BEHIND THE NEWSRobert B. Zoellick, the bank's president, said a wave of deadly rioting in Haiti last weekend over food prices underscored the need for quick action. Food riots have also erupted in recent weeks in Africa and Southeast Asia. Mr. Zoellick warned that surging food prices could push 100 million people in low-income countries deeper into poverty. ''This is not just a question of short-term needs,'' he said. ''This is ensuring that future generations don't pay a price, too.''
 THE NEWS President Bush set aside $200 million for emergency food aid, and the European Union was exploring ways to boost production of wheat, corn and other grains. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The money will be used in Africa and other countries. The White House said Mr. Bush also had urged administration officials to develop a long-term plan ''that helps take care of the world's poor and hungry.'' A spokesman for the 27-nation union said agriculture officials were hoping for a 10 percent increase in harvests this year as they considered how to improve production even more. The European countries set aside $253 million in aid last month to provide food to poor nations.
 THE NEWS Efforts in the United States and Europe to promote biofuels came under sharp criticism for driving up food prices in poor countries.
 BEHIND THE NEWS How much the growth of biofuels has contributed to higher food prices is disputed -- with estimates of as much as a third of recent increases. Some developing nations consider biofuels ''a crime against humanity'' at a time of food shortages. But the president of Brazil, the world's No. 2 producer of ethanol after the United States, insisted that biofuel production wasn't hurting food prices. ''They can pull countries out of energy dependency without affecting foods,'' President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva said of biofuels.
 THE NEWS Major agricultural countries must urgently change their farming practices to ease environmental impacts and meet growing demands for food, a United Nations study said.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Nearly 400 experts spent three years examining agricultural practices around the world. Their report called for radical changes in farming so that it depends less on fossil fuels, favors natural fertilizers and protects water supplies. They noted that large swaths of central and western Asia and Africa are running out of water. And they warned that a business-as-usual approach would mean a ''tightening of world food markets with increasing resource scarcity'' for poor nations.
 THE NEWS North Korea is facing a food crisis, the United Nations warned, and the Philippines appealed to the United States for rice to replenish dwindling supplies.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Floods devastated North Korea's agricultural heartland last year, exacerbating already serious shortages. As many as 6.5 million of the country's 23 million people are short of food, the United Nations' food agency said, and that number could rise. In the Philippines, one of the world's largest importers of rice, officials were taking steps to make sure that poor families had access to subsidized rice as prices soared; they enlisted the Roman Catholic Church to help distribute supplies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SCOTT BARBOUR/GETTY IMAGES
JAMIL BITTAR/REUTERS
REUTERS
 ROMEO RANOCO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); BIOMASS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); RIOTS (72%); WHEAT FARMING (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); FERTILIZERS (65%); ETHANOL (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); HAITI (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



565 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Big Spender

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON. 
Karen W. Arenson covers higher education for The Times.

 BODY:
IT is hard to walk through Princeton University and not come across the fruits of its endowment. Many of the books lining the 50 miles of shelves in Firestone Library were bought through gifts. Its museum is rich with works from ancient Rome, China and Africa, courtesy of endowment dollars. The elaborate gardens surrounding the faculty club are replanted regularly. 
 Princeton's $15.8 billion endowment not only dwarfs its operating budget but also generates enough income to pay for nearly half of it. It may not have the largest pot (Harvard, Yale and Stanford have more), but it has more money per student -- $2.2 million -- than any other university that enrolls undergraduates. Princeton spends about 4 percent of its endowment a year, which comes to about $90,000 for every single student. 
 As Princeton's provost, Christopher L. Eisgruber, puts it in a pamphlet explaining the endowment: ''Our endowment gives us the capacity to do many things that other universities can only dream about.'' 
 Others are only too aware of this. On a white-shoe campus with aristocratic traditions and one of the highest rates of alumni giving, luxuries abound. 
 Ronald G. Ehrenberg, a Cornell economist who studies higher education, marvels at some of the things Princeton can do with its money. Forget for the moment the hundreds of millions of dollars it spends on research projects and academic departments. Or that as far back as 2001, it replaced student loans with outright grants, a move that other universities with less-deep pockets are scrambling to match.
 At Princeton, even graduate students get maternity leave, and when they go off to conferences, they get child care. ''Poor institutions can't even afford to send their faculty to conferences,'' Dr. Ehrenberg says. 
 With tuition escalating even as endowments balloon, how wealthy institutions apportion their money has drawn the interest of Washington. The Senate Finance Committee has asked the 136 institutions of higher education with the richest endowments to submit details on their spending and financial aid policies, and some lawmakers have called for them to spend at least 5 percent of their endowments each year.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the committee's ranking Republican, is among those arguing that, considering the tax advantages to those who make gifts to endowments and the tax-free growth of the funds themselves, more should be done for the public good, including reducing tuition for all and enrolling more poor students. Under 10 percent of Princeton's 4,845 undergraduates receive federal grants for low-income students. 
 ''If they just pulled up their socks a little bit more and spent 5 percent of their endowment, they could make the world significantly better for hundreds of middle-class families,'' says Dean A. Zerbe, a tax lawyer and former top aide to Senator Grassley. 
 With payments of nearly $200 million to investment managers last year, he says, Princeton is ''spending more than two times as much to manage the endowment as to provide tuition assistance to undergraduates.'' 
 It is true that Princeton could pick up the tab for all its students. ''Some have suggested that perhaps all students, even those from families with significant resources, should attend Princeton for free,'' Shirley M. Tilghman, the president, wrote to the Senate committee in March. But she took exception to the idea: ''We believe that these families should contribute toward the cost of educating their children, recognizing that even families paying full price'' -- $33,000 in tuition -- ''pay less than half of what their children's educations actually cost.''
 Every dollar not received from an affluent student is a dollar not spent on, say, scientific research. After all, undergraduate education is not the only public good a university produces, Dr. Tilghman notes, and the government no longer provides as much for the significant investments needed for research, like buildings and special equipment. 
 A look at how Princeton goes about spending its endowment bounty provides some insight into the priorities of one of the country's wealthiest universities.
 Princeton's endowment is as old as the university itself. In 1745, according to ''A Princeton Companion,'' 10 men pledged $:185 to help create a liberal arts college for New Jersey. The money was to be invested, not spent, and the interest used for salaries and other expenses. 
 Although the income on that early endowment was not enough to cover even the college president's salary at that time, pledging money to be held forever is a strategy that has paid off handsomely. Investment returns have ranged from 17 percent to 36 percent in 7 of the last 10 years; the endowment is now more than three times what it was in 1997.
 Actually, the endowment is not one fund but a collection of more than 3,500 gifts accumulated since the first pledges. More than two-thirds of it is restricted by the donors. In fact, one set of descendants is engaged in a court battle with the university, contending that a donation of $35 million, now worth $900 million, is not being used for what they say was the original intent: to prepare students for civic careers with an emphasis on foreign service.
 ''The endowment,'' Dr. Tilghman wrote to the Senate Finance Committee, ''does not function as a 'piggy bank' or 'rainy day fund' waiting to be used or allocated.''
 How much of the endowment Princeton spends each year is determined by its trustees, and they have a simple rule: the payout is to be 5 percent more than it was the previous year. It is a rule designed to provide predictability and cover inflation. But the trustees re-evaluate that amount all the time. If spending seems low in relation to endowment value, as it does when growth is fast, the trustees often increase their spending. 
 Two years ago, says Andrew Golden, president of the Princeton University Investment Company, the trustees began to ask whether they should be spending more. It was a question of ''intergenerational equity.'' After computer simulations looked at what would happen to the endowment under 1,000 different investment scenarios over 50 years, the trustees concluded they could be less conservative. Otherwise, Mr. Golden says, ''we'll be unfairly favoring future generations over current ones.'' 
 The provost, Mr. Eisgruber, explains: ''We tried not to be too exuberant over the last couple years, when the markets were good, and we try not to be too cautious now, when the markets have slumped. Our goal is to try to smooth out these bumps, so the quality of a student education doesn't depend on how the markets are doing.''
 Princeton has adjusted spending upward nine times in the past 29 years, including three times in the past two. Even so, over the decade, it has spent no more than 4.7 percent (in 2003-4) in any year and as little as 3.1 percent (in 2000-1). This year, the university plans to spend 38 percent more endowment dollars than it spent last year, for a 4.6 percent payout rate. 
 Where is Princeton spending? The university is in the midst of expanding undergraduate enrollment by 11 percent, to 5,200. It has increased financial aid; this year, the university is spending $81 million on aid, while collecting $75 million in undergraduate tuition and fees. And Dr. Tilghman and the provost recently dreamed up a proposal to send 10 percent of incoming freshmen abroad for a year of public service before they even enter college, an idea now being studied for feasibility.
 Princeton's priorities committee -- 17 students, faculty and staff members, led by the provost -- hears requests from across campus and then advises the president on what it believes Princeton can afford to do and what it cannot. 
 This year, for example, the committee supported hiring a substance-abuse counselor; expanding medical services so that at least two people would always be on duty; giving more money for club and intramural sports to cover travel expenses, league dues and officiating costs; and improving laundry facilities in the dorms. It also recommended the creation of discretionary research funds for humanities and social science faculty, to match a recently created program at Stanford. And it ''heartily endorsed'' raising the 12-month stipends for graduate students in the humanities and social sciences to $25,000.
 But the committee rejected a request to expand the budget for sexual harassment and assault advising, judging substance-abuse counseling a higher priority. It also nixed free towel service in the gym, weekend cleaning of social spaces in the graduate college and a project assistant to handle the library's Latin American Ephemera collection. 
 And Princeton continues to seek more money. New gifts account for a small but steady increase in the endowment's value. The university is now engaged in a campaign to raise $1.75 billion, and many true believers are stepping up. Last year, nearly 60 percent of alumni made donations. 
 Robert S. Murley, a Princeton graduate, explains why he and his classmates continue to give. ''If you don't continue to invest in these places,'' he says, ''you fall behind. You wake up one day and find that you are just not as competitive as you were.'' 
 Princeton's donors, he says, ''like being with a winner.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Shopping With Princeton's Endowment Dollars'' BOOKS FOR ALL AGES: Beyond Firestone Library's great halls (left), the Cotsen Children's Library, established with an $8 million gift in the rare books department, doubles as a child-friendly reading nook and scholar's playground of toys and books dating to the 15th century. Firestone is to undergo an $80 million-$90 million renovation starting next year. The work, says Shirley M. Tilghman, Princeton's president, is long overdue. But with building improvement low on donor priority lists, ''we couldn't figure out how to pay for it,'' she says. The green light came with soaring returns on endowment investments. SHINING STARS: Princeton has increased its faculty by 50 percent in the last 35 years, luring big names like the poet Paul Muldoon (below), the ethicist Peter Singer and the philosopher Cornel West, who was famously stolen away from Harvard in 2002. They are among 200 of Princeton's 700 professors who hold endowed posts. ''There are people on our faculty I would not have been able to recruit without an endowed chair,'' says David P. Dobkin, the dean of faculty, ''and there are people on our faculty I would not have been able to keep without a chair.'' COURTSIDE CHAIRS: In 1984, Princeton established its first endowed coaching post, in basketball. Now there are six chairs for head coaches and four for assistant coaches. Unlike positions for professors, these don't come with tenure. Coach Sydney Johnson (below) might wish for more job security after coming in last (tied with Harvard and Dartmouth) in the recently concluded Ivy League season. GARDENING: Since 1913, an anonymous $12,000 gift has kept up the elaborate gardens at Prospect House, the Victorian mansion that serves today as the faculty club. (Ellen Wilson designed the back gardens while her husband, Woodrow, was university president.) Today, the endowment is $1.1 million, and the annual income $48,000. SCIENCE: The Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics aims to foster research and creative teaching where biology meets other sciences. In one initiative, students take a course integrating physics, chemistry, biology and computer science instead of a class in each. Peter B. Lewis endowed the institute with $35 million to honor his college roommate, the biologist Paul B. Sigler
a Frank Gehry model (right) commissioned by Mr. Lewis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: FINANCIAL AID: While many colleges have to cobble together aid from tuition revenue, Princeton's endowment income covers about 85 percent. Half the students get some financial aid. (Source: Princeton University) Chart showing Princeton's endowment income. GRAPH: WHAT IT HAS, WHAT IT SPENDS
 MONEY LEADERS: Colleges and universities with the largest endowments per student. Data, Page 8. Graph showing the largest endowments per student at some colleges and universities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (76%); FAMILY (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CLASSICS (73%); ALUMNI (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); TAX LAW (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); LAWYERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



566 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: Shoddy! Tawdry! A Televised Train Wreck!

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
''THE crowd is turning on me,'' said Charles Gibson, the ABC anchor, when the audience jeered him in the final moments of Wednesday night's face-off between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. 
 I can't remember a debate in which the only memorable moment was the audience's heckling of a moderator. Then again, I can't remember a debate that became such an instant national gag, earning reviews more appropriate to a slasher movie like ''Prom Night'' than a civic event held in Philadelphia's National Constitution Center:
 ''Shoddy, despicable!'' -- The Washington Post
 ''A tawdry affair!'' -- The Boston Globe 
 ''A televised train wreck!'' -- The Philadelphia Daily News
 And those were the polite ones. Let's not even go to the blogosphere. 
 Of course, Obama fans were angry because of the barrage of McCarthyesque guilt-by-association charges against their candidate, portraying him as a fellow traveler of bomb-throwing, America-hating, flag-denigrating terrorists. The debate's co-moderator, George Stephanopoulos, second to no journalist in his firsthand knowledge of the Clinton White House, could have easily rectified the imbalance. All he had to do was draw on his expertise to ask similar questions about Bill Clinton's check-bearing business and foundation associates circling a potential new Clinton administration. He did not.
 But viewers of all political persuasions were affronted by the moderators' failure to ask about the mortgage crisis, health care, the environment, torture, education, China policy, the pending G.I. bill to aid veterans, or the war we're losing in Afghanistan. Those minutes were devoted not just to recycling the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Bosnian sniper fire and another lame question about a possible ''dream ticket'' but to the unseemly number of intrusive commercials and network promos that prompted the jeering at the end. The trashiest ads often bumped directly into an ABC announcer's periodic recitations of quotations from the Constitution. Such defacing of American values is to be expected, I guess, from a network whose debate moderators refuse to wear flag pins. 
 Ludicrous as the whole spectacle was, ABC would not have been so widely pilloried had it not tapped into a larger national discontent with news media fatuousness. The debate didn't happen in a vacuum; it was the culmination of the orgy of press hysteria over Mr. Obama's remarks about ''bitter'' small-town voters. For nearly a week, you couldn't change channels without hearing how Mr. Obama had destroyed his campaign with this single slip at a San Francisco fund-raiser. By Wednesday night, the public was overdosing. 
 Mr. Obama did sound condescending, an unappealing trait that was even more naked in his ''You're likable enough, Hillary'' gibe many debates ago. But the overreaction to this latest gaffe backfired on the media more than it damaged him. For all the racket about ''Bittergate'' -- and breathless intimations of imminent poll swings and superdelegate stampedes -- the earth did not move. The polls hardly budged, and superdelegates continued to migrate mainly in Mr. Obama's direction. 
 Thus did another overhyped 2008 story line go embarrassingly bust, like such predecessors as the death of the John McCain campaign and the organizational and financial invincibility of the Clinton political machine against a rookie senator from Illinois. Not the least of the reasons that the Beltway has gotten so much wrong this year is that it believes that 2008 is still 1988. It sees the country in its own image -- static -- instead of as a dynamic society whose culture and demographics are changing by the day. 
 In this one-size-fits-all analysis, Mr. Obama must be the new Dukakis, sure to be rejected by white guys easily manipulated by Lee Atwater-style campaigns exploiting race and class. But some voters who lived through 1988 have changed, and quite a few others are dead. In 2008, they are supplanted in part by an energized African-American electorate and the young voters of all economic strata who fueled the Obama movement that many pundits didn't take seriously before Iowa. And that some still don't. Cokie Roberts of ABC predicted in February that young voters probably won't show up in November because ''they never have before'' and ''they'll be tired.''
 However out of touch Mr. Obama is with ''ordinary Americans,'' many Americans, ordinary and not, have concluded that the talking heads blathering about blue-collar men, religion, guns and those incomprehensible ''YouTube young people'' are even more condescending and out of touch. When a Washington doyenne like Mary Matalin, freighted with jewelry, starts railing about elitists on ''Meet the Press,'' as she did last Sunday, it's pure farce. It's typical of the syndrome that the man who plays a raging populist on CNN, Lou Dobbs, dismissed Mr. Obama last week by saying ''we don't need another Ivy League-educated knucklehead.'' Mr. Dobbs must know whereof he speaks, since he's Harvard '67. 
 The most revealing moment in Wednesday's debate was a striking example of this media-populace disconnect. In Mr. Gibson's only passionate query of the night, he tried to strong-arm both Democrats into forgoing any increases in the capital gains tax. The capital gains tax! That's just the priority Americans are focusing on as they lose their houses and jobs, and as gas prices reach $4 a gallon (a subject that merited only a brief mention, in a lightning round of final questions). And this in a debate that took place on the same day we learned that the top 50 hedge fund managers made a total of $29 billion in 2007, some of them by betting against the mortgage market.
 At least Mr. Gibson is consistent. In the ABC debate in January, he upbraided Mrs. Clinton by suggesting that a typical New Hampshire ''family of two professors'' with a joint income ''in the $200,000 category'' would be unjustly penalized by her plan to roll back the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. He seemed oblivious not merely to typical academic salaries but to the fact that his hypothetical household would be among America's wealthiest (only 3.4 percent earn more). 
 Next to such knuckleheaded obtuseness, Mr. Obama's pratfall may strike many voters as a misdemeanor. He was probably rescued as well by the typical Clinton campaign overkill that followed his mistake. Not content merely to piously feign shock about Mr. Obama's San Francisco soliloquy (and the operative political buzzword here is San Francisco, which stands for you-know-what), Mrs. Clinton couldn't resist presenting herself as an unambiguously macho, beer-swilling hunting enthusiast. This is as condescending as it gets, topping even Mitt Romney's last-ditch effort to repackage himself to laid-off union workers as the love child of Joe Hill and Norma Rae. 
 The video of Mrs. Clinton knocking back drinks in an Indiana bar drowned out the scratchy audio of Mr. Obama's wispy words in San Francisco. Her campaign didn't seem to recognize that among the many consequences of the Bush backlash is a revulsion against such play acting. Americans belatedly learned the hard way that the brush-clearing cowboy of the Crawford ''ranch'' (it's a country house, not a working ranch) was in reality an entitled Andover-Yale-Harvard oil brat whose arrogance has left us where we are now. Voters don't want a rerun from a Wellesley-Yale alumna who served on the board of Wal-Mart. 
 Privileged though they are, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama do want to shape policy to help the less well-heeled. Mr. McCain, who had a far more elite upbringing than either of them and whose wife's estimated fortune exceeds the Clintons', is not just condescending to working Americans but trying to hoodwink them. Next week, in a replay of the 2000 Bush campaign's ''compassionate conservative'' photo ops among black schoolchildren, he will show he's a ''different kind of Republican'' by visiting what he calls the ''forgotten'' America of Alabama's ''black belt'' and the old steel town of Youngstown, Ohio. What he wants voters to forget is the inequity of his new economic plan.
 That plan's incoherent smorgasbord of items includes a cut from 35 percent to 25 percent in the corporate tax rate. For noncorporate taxpayers, Mr. McCain offers such thin gruel as a battle against federal pork (the notorious Alaskan ''bridge to nowhere,'' earmarked for $223 million in federal highway money, costs less than a day of the war in Iraq) and a temporary suspension of the federal gas tax (a saving of some $2.75 per 15-gallon tank). Now there's a reason for voters to be bitter -- assuming bloviators start publicizing and parsing Mr. McCain's words as relentlessly as they do the Democrats'. 
 That may be a big assumption. At an Associated Press luncheon for newspaper editors in Washington last week, Mr. McCain was given a standing ovation. (The other candidate who appeared, Mr. Obama, was not.) Cindy McCain, whose tax returns remain under wraps, has not received remotely the same scrutiny as Michelle Obama and Bill Clinton, except for her plagiarized recipes. The most damning proof of the press's tilt toward Mr. McCain, though, is the lack of clamor for his complete health records, especially in the wake of his baffling serial factual confusions about Iraq, his No. 1 issue. 
 But that remains on hold while we resolve whether Mr. Obama lost Wednesday's debate with his defensive stumbling, or whether Mrs. Clinton lost it with her ceaseless parroting of right-wing attacks. The unequivocally good news is that ABC's debacle had the largest audience of any debate in this campaign. That's a lot of viewers who are now mad as hell and won't take it anymore.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); FUNDRAISING (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); HORROR FILMS (56%); CREDIT CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



567 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Busy Day As First Vote In Six Weeks Draws Near

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WEST LAWN, Pa. 

 BODY:
With only days left before the Pennsylvania primary, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton crisscrossed the state on Saturday to deliver their closing arguments, one from a train on the first whistle-stop tour of the campaign and the other in a series of rallies. 
 Thousands turned out to see Mr. Obama, of Illinois, as he campaigned by train across southeastern Pennsylvania. On a sun-splashed afternoon, he stopped along the rail line in four cities and stepped onto the rear platform as he passed through several other towns, waving to supporters who lined the route. 
 ''Now it is our turn, Pennsylvania,'' said Mr. Obama, speaking at his first stop in the Philadelphia suburb of Wynnewood. ''This is a defining moment in our history. All of you are here because you can feel it.''
 If Mr. Obama's final Saturday before the Pennsylvania contest appeared bucolic, as he rumbled from Philadelphia through the lush green Amish farming country, Mrs. Clinton, by contrast, lived up to her workhorse reputation with a day that required driving and flying long distances to her five events. Mr. Obama drew sharp distinctions with Mrs. Clinton, hoping to narrow her advantage, while she dismissed his rhetoric.
 ''I don't want to just show up and give one of those whoop-dee-do speeches and get everybody whipped up,'' she told an audience here. ''I want everyone thinking.''
 Yet there was a ring of urgency in her voice as Mrs. Clinton, of New York, went through her stump speech at a faster clip than usual, as if ready to jump into her van to be whisked away to her next rally. 
 In West Lawn, supporters half-filled a high school gymnasium, with one set of empty bleachers stacked against the wall. The scoreboard suspended from the ceiling flashed the words ''Hillary Wins.''
 Mrs. Clinton bounded on stage with arguably her most valued ally in the state, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, who shouted to the crowd by way of introduction, ''This young lady knows how to fight!'' (Mr. Rendell, 64, is four years older than Mrs. Clinton.)
 Mrs. Clinton stayed close to her usual pitch, pressing on the issues of education, the war in Iraq and the economy, and she led the crowd in a chant of ''Yes, we will,'' her variation of Mr. Obama's mantra of ''Yes we can.'' 
 The two campaigns sparred over their respective health care plans, with Mr. Obama putting forth a television commercial that attacked Mrs. Clinton's proposal. She returned the criticism, saying, ''He chooses to attack my solution.''
 Early in the day, Mrs. Clinton put the hard sell to Pennsylvania voters as she stood on stage in front of a historic fire station in the Philadelphia suburb of West Chester. 
 ''We have got to realize that our future really depends on who the next president is,'' she said. ''This is not a throw-away election. This is one of the most important elections we've ever faced.''
 With only 10 contests remaining in the fight for the Democratic nomination, the Pennsylvania primary is a critically important one. Mrs. Clinton once held a 20-point lead in the state, but that lead has been whittled down to the single digits, according to many public polls.
 Nationally, Mr. Obama leads in the popular vote and delegate count. And on Saturday, he pulled closer to Mrs. Clinton's lead in superdelegates, picking up Steve Achelpohl, the Democratic state chairman in Nebraska. 
 Seeing the polls tighten and being outspent three to one, the Clinton campaign played down expectations for a sweeping victory on Tuesday in Pennsylvania. 
 Mr. Obama's advisers are counting on it, hoping that a stronger-than-expected showing from him could help wind down the protracted fight for the Democratic nomination.
 As Mr. Obama made the 100-mile journey from Philadelphia to Harrisburg, he delivered a rolling closing argument. In recent days, he has fired many of his criticisms at Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, but with two days before people here go to the polls, he used his time to draw sharp distinctions with Mrs. Clinton.
 ''Her basic argument in this election -- it's become clear as time has gone on -- is that you can't really change Washington,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You can't really change the say-anything, do-anything, special-interest driven game in Washington. And because you can't change it, you might as well select somebody who knows how to play the game better because they've been at the game longer.''
 And then at an evening rally in Harrisburg, he said, ''Senator Clinton would be vastly better than George Bush would be, but that's a very low bar.'' 
 Mr. Obama, who was accompanied by Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, traveled on an antique, blue Georgia 300 Club Car, festooned with red, white and blue bunting. As he arrived in each town, strains of Bruce Springsteen's ''The Rising'' filled the air.
 For more than a year, the field of presidential candidates have campaigned across America by plane and by bus. The trip across a corner of Pennsylvania -- intended for its marketing appeal, as much as its method of transportation -- marked the first train trip of the 2008 race. 
 As he boarded his chartered Amtrak at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, Mr. Obama pulled on the train's whistle. ''This is what I'm talking about,'' he said.
 People waited hours for Mr. Obama's train to arrive. Young children, perched on their fathers' shoulders, waved blue Obama signs. 
 But amid the revelry, Mr. Obama reminded people again and again that he needed their support on Tuesday.
 ''We are going to be unified in November,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But right now, there is a real choice to be made.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted voters in front of a historic fire station in the Philadelphia suburb of West Chester, Pa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Thousands turned out Saturday to see Senator Barack Obama as he campaigned by train across southeastern Pennsylvania.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TRAINS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); ED RENDELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



568 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DATABANK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Led Rally Despite Write-Downs

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Wall Street banks took further multibillion-dollar write-downs last week, but the stock market barely reacted. Instead, a handful of strong corporate earnings reports set off a rally. 
 The latest red ink from financial institutions -- this time from Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Merrill Lynch -- failed to make much of an impression on the markets. Nor did warnings from Fed officials about inflation, or the data showing economic weakness.
 But Google, Caterpillar, Coca-Cola and I.B.M. reported earnings that outstripped expectations, in part because of rising revenues outside the United States, combined with a declining dollar. Caterpillar gained 14 percent for the week, the best performance in the Dow Jones industrial average.
 For the week, the Dow gained 523.94 points, or 4.3 percent, to close at 12,849.36. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 57.50 points, or 4.3 percent, to close at 1,390.33. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 112.73 points, or 4.9 percent, to close at 2,402.97. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.71 percent from 3.47 percent the previous week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008



569 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Cleric Wins Paraguay Presidency, Ending Party's 62-Year Rule

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: ASUNCION, Paraguay 

 BODY:
A former Roman Catholic bishop and self-styled champion of the poor on Sunday broke the 62-year grip on the presidency by the ruling party here, the longest-serving political party in the world.
 The former bishop, Fernando Lugo, who resigned from the church two years ago to run, will be the first Paraguayan president since 1946 not to be from Colorado Party. ''Today we've written a new chapter in our nation's political history,'' he said in a speech late Sunday, after his opponent, Blanca Ovelar de Duarte, conceded defeat.
 With more than 92 percent of the ballots counted, Mr. Lugo, 56, had 41 percent of the vote and Mrs. Ovelar de Duarte, 50, had 31 percent. 
 No other country has a political party with a longer hold on the presidency than the incumbent, also known as the National Republican Association, not even the Kim family's Communist dynasty in North Korea. In Mexico, the Institutional Revolutionary Party held the presidency for 71 years before Vicente Fox broke its string of victories in 2000.
 Mr. Lugo, a gray-bearded man who exudes natural warmth and often wears sandals, was backed by the Patriotic Alliance for Change, Paraguay's second-largest party.
 Even as the final results were still being tallied, wild street celebrations broke out in downtown Asuncion, near the government house. Revelers set off fireworks, waved Paraguayan flags and began dancing in the streets to spontaneous drumming deep into the night. They chanted Mr. Lugo's campaign slogan, ''Lugo has heart.''
 Mrs. Ovelar, a former education minister, was the country's first female presidential candidate and was backed by the president. 
 More than 65 percent of eligible voters cast ballots, according to the preliminary results. Paraguayans are voting for only the fourth time since the former dictator Alfredo Stroessner was ousted in 1989 after 35 years in power. 
 Despite widespread concerns of fraud, a large group of international observers said they were surprised by how calm and respectful voting was. There were isolated reports of attempts to buy votes and sell fake identification cards, but the voting continued without interruption.
 ''The incidents were very isolated, secondary and marginal,'' said Maria Emma Mejia, the head of the Organization of American States' election mission. 
 Ms. Mejia also said her group had found no evidence of foreign interference. Mrs. Ovelar and President Nicanor Duarte Frutos had stoked rumors that ''invaders'' from Venezuela and Ecuador had entered Paraguay intending to destabilize the country if Mr. Lugo lost.
 Mr. Lugo tapped into a deep frustration with single-party rule in Paraguay. He accused the Colorado Party of entrenched patronage and corruption, a theme that resonated with voters. Paraguay has struggled since the Stroessner days to rid itself of a reputation for being among the most-corrupt countries in Latin America. 
 While certain aspects of the economy have prospered -- mainly the agriculture sector -- Paraguayans have struggled to see the benefits of export revenues, and 33 percent of the population lives below the poverty line.
 In a central campaign theme, Mr. Lugo accused the ruling Colorados of fuzzy accounting for the hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues from the Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the Brazil-Paraguay border, the world's largest hydroelectric dam. He has pushed to renegotiate contracts with Brazil at prices closer to market rates, a move he said could transform the Paraguayan economy. 
 While he has sought to reject being labeled, Mr. Lugo has socialist tendencies resembling those of South American leaders elected in the past decade, including Evo Morales of Bolivia and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 Mr. Lugo has talked about reforming the agrarian sector and redistributing wealth to more of Paraguay's poor. He said in an interview that he might consider increasing export tariffs on agricultural producers.
 The rebellion against the Colorado Party seemed almost complete on Sunday when Vice President Luis Castiglioni angrily lashed out against it -- his own party -- after casting his ballot. He said the party ''suffered from a grave infection'' and vowed that his splinter party, the Colorado Vanguard Party, would ''continue to fight against any type of autocracy'' or ''authoritarianism.'' Mr. Castiglioni lost the party's nomination to Mrs. Ovelar after the president threw his backing behind her.
 Still unclear is whether Mr. Lugo will face problems over his clerical status. Because the Paraguayan Constitution prohibits church officials of any denomination from being elected president, Mr. Lugo resigned from his position in the church in December 2006. The Vatican refused to accept his resignation and considers him only suspended from his clerical duties. He has dismissed concerns about the legalities of his candidacy and said in an interview last week that he was abiding by Paraguayan laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CORRUPTION (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BALLOTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); COUNTERFEITING (61%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAGUAY (98%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



570 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Human Wave Flees Violence In Zimbabwe

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

DATELINE: ALONG THE SOUTH AFRICA-ZIMBABWE BORDER 

 BODY:
Sarah Ngewerume was driven to the river by despair.
 She said she had seen gangs loyal to Zimbabwe's longtime president, Robert Mugabe, beating people -- some to death -- in the dusty roads of her village. She said Mugabe loyalists were sweeping the countryside with chunks of wood in their hands, demanding to see party identification cards and methodically hunting down opposition supporters. 
 ''It was terrifying,'' said Ms. Ngewerume, a 49-year-old former shopkeeper.
 Last week she waded across the Limpopo River, bribed a man fixing a border fence on the other side and slipped into a nearby South African farm. 
 She was among the latest desperate arrivals in what South Africa's biggest daily newspaper is calling ''Mugabe's Tsunami,'' a wave of more than 1,000 people every day who are fleeing Zimbabwe across the Limpopo to escape into South Africa.
 When a shallow, glassy river and a few coils of razor wire are the only things separating one of Africa's most developed countries from one of its most miserable, the inevitable result is millions of illegal border jumpers. But South African and Zimbabwean human rights groups say that the flow of people into South Africa has been surging in the three weeks since Zimbabwe's disputed election and during the violent crackdown that followed. One Zimbabwean named Washington, who goes back and forth across the border ferrying Super Sure cake flour and Blazing Beef potato snacks, said the government was now using food as a weapon and channeling much of the United Nations-donated grain to supporters of the ruling party.''As we speak,'' he said, ''people are starving.''
 He seemed more defeated than anything else. ''People hate the government,'' he said. ''But they are too scared to fight it.''
 Commercials are now running on Zimbabwean TV showing grainy images of captives from the liberation war in the 1970s and reminding citizens not to disobey their leaders, recent arrivals said.
 In the past, countless Zimbabwean men escaped to South Africa to drive cabs or work on construction sites and send money home. But these days, many of the Zimbabweans fleeing are women and children willing to take considerable risks to get out for good. 
 ''We were hoping for change and waiting to see what would happen in the election,'' said Faithi Mano, one of more than a dozen Zimbabweans interviewed after they had crossed the border last week. ''Now, I have decided to quit that place.''
 It does not look as if Mr. Mugabe, an 84-year-old liberation hero who has ruled Zimbabwe for 28 years, will leave office without a fight. After early election results from the March 29 vote indicated he was losing to the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, the election commission put the brakes on announcing results. The presidential results still have not been released, and a recount begun Saturday in 23 Parliament races is now threatening to drag things out further -- the opposition has deemed it ''illegal.'' 
 If there is a runoff between Mr. Mugabe and Mr. Tsvangirai, many fear it could get even bloodier. Human Rights Watch issued a report on Saturday saying members of Mr. Mugabe's party were running ''torture camps'' where they took opposition supporters for nightly beatings. 
 On Sunday, the leading opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, said more than 400 supporters had been arrested, 500 attacked, 10 killed and 3,000 families displaced. The party released a detailed, day-by-day chronicle of violence that listed huts being burned, people getting cracked in the head with bottles and farms being invaded. The party blamed Mugabe supporters and sometimes government soldiers.
 The government has denied any wrongdoing and accused opposition leaders of treason. Mr. Tsvangirai has said it is too dangerous for him to stay in Zimbabwe and has been spending time in South Africa.
 The border between South Africa and Zimbabwe stretches about 150 miles, and it is headache-hot out here. ''Beware of crocodile'' signs shimmer in the sun, the grass is yellow and crisp, and at night, the trees churn with clouds of heat-crazed insects.
 For the people who make it through, there is a pipeline of sympathy waiting on the other side. Fellow Zimbabweans living in South Africa -- often perfect strangers -- have taken in border jumpers, giving them a safe house and a warm cup of porridge, and helping them along their way to Messina, about 10 miles south, and then onward to the bigger cities of Johannesburg and Cape Town.
 Joyce Dube, director of the Southern African Women's Institute for Migration Affairs, which tracks the border issue, said the only reason more people were not crossing was the recently beefed-up security on the South African side. ''It's getting tougher to get through,'' she said.
 South African military helicopters thunder over the Limpopo and soldiers prowl the border roads, searching car trunks for human cargo. Crews of men in red jumpsuits drip with sweat as they fix the fences. But it is a cat-and-mouse game. No sooner have they patched a hole than it is punched through again.
 The fence runs for miles, a shining metal snake going up and down the tawny hills. It used to be deadly, electrified by a high-voltage current. That was in the 1980s, when South Africa and newly independent Zimbabwe were practically at war. Back then, many people were going the other way, fleeing South Africa's repressive apartheid government to escape to Zimbabwe. 
 At the time, Zimbabwe was one of Africa's stars. Mr. Mugabe had turned a relatively small, landlocked country into an economic powerhouse that produced beef, grain and tobacco.
 ''Bob Mugabe was my hero,'' said a white Zimbabwean farmer who drove into Messina the other day for supplies. He did not want to give his name because he went on to criticize Mr. Mugabe's more recent policies and said he was afraid he could be evicted from his farm for doing so. ''I know it sounds funny, but it's true. You have no idea how beautiful Zim was.'' Zim is the affectionate nickname for Zimbabwe.
 But in the late 1990s, Mr. Mugabe felt he needed to deliver on long-promised land reforms, and Britain, the former colonial ruler, was stalling on paying for them. Mr. Mugabe then encouraged blacks to seize white-owned farms. Whites fled, industrialized agriculture crashed, and today the inflation rate is more than 150,000 percent. Supermarkets often have no food, and 80 percent of the people have no jobs.
 The Movement for Democratic Change ran on these woes, and in 2002 it nearly won power, though the elections were marred by violence and intimidation.
 This time there was hope that things would be different. Recent arrivals say that a few weeks before the vote, the bullying suddenly seemed to let up -- perhaps, some thought, because the ruling party was sure it would win. But when the first results showed Mr. Mugabe losing badly, the government went silent. There were some talks about Mr. Mugabe stepping aside. Then the crackdown began.
 Ms. Ngewerume, the escaped former shopkeeper, said opposition supporters in her village in central Zimbabwe became easy targets because they had danced and sung in the streets after early results were tacked up on polling station doors. When the final results did not come, they went into hiding. But the thugs found them anyway, she said.
 ''I can't see how Mugabe could win again after all this,'' she said. 
 But, she added, many opposition supporters probably would not take the chance again to cross ''the old man,'' as Mr. Mugabe is often called.
 Ms. Ngewerume was visibly pained just talking politics as she stood under a tree on a farm near the border. ''I just want to go there,'' she said, stabbing her finger vaguely south, in the direction of Johannesburg. ''I'm just struggling to go forward to get something better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seeing a South African military truck, two women, with their babies, fled back to Zimbabwe after trying to cross into South Africa.
 More than 1,000 people cross the border from Zimbabwe into South Africa every day.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIELLA FURRER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) MAP: Many border jumpers receive help to go to Messina. Map details area of Messina. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARVATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



571 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: If Only the Dollar Were Stronger

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SELINGO

 BODY:
THE dream of retiring to a Tuscan villa or a beachfront home in Costa Rica almost always hinges on how to pay for it, but rarely do graying expatriates plan well for another pocketbook issue: the value of the American dollar. 
 Its decline has led American retirees living abroad to give up many luxuries that attracted them overseas in the first place. At the same time, baby boomers considering a move permanently offshore are having second thoughts, if not eliminating their top choices simply because of the exchange rate. 
 ''People often pick where they're going to retire based on places they like on holiday,'' said Hugh Bromma, chief executive of Entrust Administration, a financial-services firm that serves retirees living abroad. ''But living in a Marriott is not the same as living there.''
 Mr. Bromma recently gave a lecture in Atlanta to a group of prospective retirees who were considering moving abroad. ''I think I talked every one of them out of going anywhere,'' he said. Given the state of the American economy and the value of the dollar, ''you have to have a compelling reason to retire to another country right now.''
 The United States government does not track where Americans retire overseas or even how many do. But in nearly every part of the world, retirees from the United States are being pinched. In particular, Europe is increasingly off limits to retirees because of the continuing decline of the dollar against the euro. Just since the beginning of the year, the value of the dollar has eroded 7 percent against the euro. 
 Claire Larson is beginning to feel the pain. When Mrs. Larson and her husband bought land in Portugal, near Faro, in 1989, they gave little thought to the exchange rate. ''We just wanted to go to the other side of the Atlantic,'' she said.
 A few years later, they built a house on the land and retired there from New York City in 1996. ''I've seen the dollar go all over the place, but this is the worst it's ever been,'' Mrs. Larson, 56, said. 
 She has cut back on her spending, mostly traveling elsewhere in Europe, the one activity that attracted her to Portugal at first. She is also driving less, with gas running at nearly the equivalent of $7 a gallon. ''I'm staying home a lot more, but at least the house is paid for,'' she said.
 Mrs. Larson is even going out of her way to save money. (Her husband has since died.) She traveled to Germany to have knee surgery. Doing the procedure there, she said, halved the cost because of lower doctors' fees. 
 Health care is one item that hits retirees abroad very hard. Generally, they must pay for such costs on their own. Medicare typically does not cover patients outside the United States, and American insurance carriers generally do not extend coverage overseas. 
 ''Americans think that health care anywhere but in the U.S. is cheap,'' said Daniel Prescher, publisher of International Living, a monthly magazine focused on living overseas. ''Yes, it's less expensive, but when you need it often as a resident in a foreign country, it's something you still need to plan for as part of your budget.''
 Planning for a retirement overseas, though, is difficult when currencies may fluctuate wildly over a few years. While tourists traveling in foreign countries are often able to make adjustments to their itineraries to balance a drop in the dollar, it's not as simple for people expecting to spend the rest of their life abroad.
 ''I advise people to plan the location of their retirement about five years in advance,'' Mr. Bromma said, admitting that if someone had planned to retire to Europe five years ago, ''their cost of living would be some 50 percent higher today based just on the value of the dollar.''
 Leo and Linda Keller are in that situation. The couple, from Boston, bought land in southern Spain while on vacation six years ago, with the intent of building a house when they retire next year. But now, Mr. Keller is having second thoughts and is searching for land in Central America.
 ''It just doesn't seem like the euro is ever going to drop,'' said Mr. Keller, 62. ''Even if it did, we can't count on it staying low for the entire duration we're there.'' 
 To compensate for the dropping dollar, Mr. Prescher of International Living suggests picking a place with a lower cost of living than in the United States. ''If the cost of living is much lower than what you're accustomed to in the U.S., then it really takes a huge drop in the dollar to make a real difference,'' he said.
 Dan Neuschwanger, 63, and his wife, Carol, 62, have focused their search for a retirement home in Latin America because of its low cost of living. For now, they are renting a home in Costa Rica. They spent the early part of last year in Nicaragua and plan to move to Panama next year.
 ''We're living out of a suitcase,'' Mr. Neuschwanger said. ''We haven't found the place we want to settle yet.''
 Although the dollar has declined 4 percent against Costa Rica's colon since they moved there, Mr. Neuschwanger said ''it's not that noticeable in daily living.'' And compared with their last home, in Colorado, ''everything is so much cheaper.'' The exception is the cost of diesel, up 20 percent since they moved to Costa Rica. 
 Still, the erosion of the dollar has persuaded the Neuschwangers to make the value of the currency part of the equation in determining where to retire. ''I never thought the decision would rest on the exchange rate,'' Mr. Neuschwanger said.
 If they settle in Panama, the dollar's value will not make a difference because its currency, the balboa, has a fixed exchange rate, trading at par with the American dollar. That is the main reason Panama has become a top destination for American retirees, Mr. Prescher said.
 John McCann, 56, considered retiring to several other Latin American countries, including Costa Rica and Mexico, before settling on Panama four years ago. ''If you're not ready to spend years researching countries, you're not ready to retire overseas,'' said Mr. McCann, who is finishing construction on a new home there. 
 When asked about his biggest cost now, he laughed. ''Flights back to the U.S.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON HOLD: Dan Neuschwanger, and his wife, Carol, in Grecia, Costa Rica. They are renting a house in that country for now.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT GILBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); EURO (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); COSTA RICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



572 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Running Out of Planet to Exploit

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Nine years ago The Economist ran a big story on oil, which was then selling for $10 a barrel. The magazine warned that this might not last. Instead, it suggested, oil might well fall to $5 a barrel. 
 In any case, The Economist asserted, the world faced ''the prospect of cheap, plentiful oil for the foreseeable future.''
 Last week, oil hit $117. 
 It's not just oil that has defied the complacency of a few years back. Food prices have also soared, as have the prices of basic metals. And the global surge in commodity prices is reviving a question we haven't heard much since the 1970s: Will limited supplies of natural resources pose an obstacle to future world economic growth? 
 How you answer this question depends largely on what you believe is driving the rise in resource prices. Broadly speaking, there are three competing views.
 The first is that it's mainly speculation -- that investors, looking for high returns at a time of low interest rates, have piled into commodity futures, driving up prices. On this view, someday soon the bubble will burst and high resource prices will go the way of Pets.com.
 The second view is that soaring resource prices do, in fact, have a basis in fundamentals -- especially rapidly growing demand from newly meat-eating, car-driving Chinese -- but that given time we'll drill more wells, plant more acres, and increased supply will push prices right back down again. 
 The third view is that the era of cheap resources is over for good -- that we're running out of oil, running out of land to expand food production and generally running out of planet to exploit.
 I find myself somewhere between the second and third views.
 There are some very smart people -- not least, George Soros -- who believe that we're in a commodities bubble (although Mr. Soros says that the bubble is still in its ''growth phase''). My problem with this view, however, is this: Where are the inventories? 
 Normally, speculation drives up commodity prices by promoting hoarding. Yet there's no sign of resource hoarding in the data: inventories of food and metals are at or near historic lows, while oil inventories are only normal.
 The best argument for the second view, that the resource crunch is real but temporary, is the strong resemblance between what we're seeing now and the resource crisis of the 1970s. 
 What Americans mostly remember about the 1970s are soaring oil prices and lines at gas stations. But there was also a severe global food crisis, which caused a lot of pain at the supermarket checkout line -- I remember 1974 as the year of Hamburger Helper -- and, much more important, helped cause devastating famines in poorer countries.
 In retrospect, the commodity boom of 1972-75 was probably the result of rapid world economic growth that outpaced supplies, combined with the effects of bad weather and Middle Eastern conflict. Eventually, the bad luck came to an end, new land was placed under cultivation, new sources of oil were found in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, and resources got cheap again.
 But this time may be different: concerns about what happens when an ever-growing world economy pushes up against the limits of a finite planet ring truer now than they did in the 1970s. 
 For one thing, I don't expect growth in China to slow sharply anytime soon. That's a big contrast with what happened in the 1970s, when growth in Japan and Europe, the emerging economies of the time, downshifted -- and thereby took a lot of pressure off the world's resources.
 Meanwhile, resources are getting harder to find. Big oil discoveries, in particular, have become few and far between, and in the last few years oil production from new sources has been barely enough to offset declining production from established sources. 
 And the bad weather hitting agricultural production this time is starting to look more fundamental and permanent than El Nino and La Nina, which disrupted crops 35 years ago. Australia, in particular, is now in the 10th year of a drought that looks more and more like a long-term manifestation of climate change. 
 Suppose that we really are running up against global limits. What does it mean?
 Even if it turns out that we're really at or near peak world oil production, that doesn't mean that one day we'll say, ''Oh my God! We just ran out of oil!'' and watch civilization collapse into ''Mad Max'' anarchy. 
 But rich countries will face steady pressure on their economies from rising resource prices, making it harder to raise their standard of living. And some poor countries will find themselves living dangerously close to the edge -- or over it.
 Don't look now, but the good times may have just stopped rolling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (75%); FOOD PRICES (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); FAMINE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: IPET HOLDINGS INC (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



573 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Making Your Money Last as Long as You Live

BYLINE: By ROBERT HERTZBERG

 BODY:
EVEN for people who have built up a decent nest egg, deciding how to use it is one of the demands of early retirement. The good life may be within reach, but the financial logistics still require careful attention.
 ''We were thinking, We've got the time now, but how do we finance it?'' said Cathy Odlaug, recalling how she felt two years ago when her husband, Bruce, went part time at his Minneapolis law firm, giving up his partnership and 60 percent of his income.
 In an era when fewer Americans are getting pensions, Mrs. Odlaug's concern isn't unusual. Most retirees have to create their own income streams, usually through a combination of Social Security and distributions from retirement savings, including I.R.A.'s and 401(k) accounts. 
 ''Unless you've actually lived through it personally, you don't fully appreciate some of the nuances of the deaccumulation phase,'' said Sheryl Garrett, founder of the Garrett Planning Network, which creates financial plans for middle-income people. ''There's a lot of angst around, How am I going to get my paycheck in retirement?'' 
 Some differences in planning are personal. For instance, a couple planning to retire at 55 may need a paycheck-bridge strategy before they become eligible for Social Security at age 62, said Michael Kitces, director of financial planning for the Pinnacle Advisory Group in Columbia, Md. If the couple are in line for an inheritance or are planning to sell a second home, they can spend more earlier in retirement than might otherwise seem prudent, he added. 
 Other variations are economic. An extended period of stock-market gains may let some retirees increase their withdrawals. A couple of down years can have the opposite effect. 
 These factors must all be weighed in a paycheck replacement plan. 
 ''The mathematics of this are beyond what most people could really be sophisticated at,'' said Roger Ibbotson, a professor at the Yale School of Management and an expert on investments who has helped mutual fund companies advise retirees. ''It's not that they're stupid. It's just that it's complicated.''
 To give retirees some new tools, two of the biggest fund companies, Fidelity and Vanguard, have introduced mutual funds intended to make it easy for retirees to make systematic monthly withdrawals. 
 Fidelity's Income Replacement funds use target dates to determine the period over which the portfolio will be drawn down. For instance, the Fidelity Income Replacement Fund 2038 is meant to provide retirees with monthly income for the next 30 years. The withdrawal rate starts at 5.01 percent in the first year and moves up gradually, to 6.30 percent in 2018 and 10.29 percent in 2028. In 2038, retirees get whatever is left, divided into 12 monthly installments, and the fund is depleted.
 Vanguard's three Managed Payout funds are also designed to let retirees withdraw a fixed amount from their portfolios -- up to 7 percent -- in monthly installments. The difference is that the Vanguard funds do not have an expiration date; their goal is to preserve the retiree's capital indefinitely. 
 Neither the Fidelity funds, which became available last fall, nor the Vanguard funds, which open to investors today, guarantee that they will meet their goals. 
 ''There are still some risks to it,'' Mr. Kitces said. But he said the products, with their promise of steady monthly cash flows off of diversified, professionally managed portfolios, are a boon to retirees seeking paycheck replacement. ''These funds are a tremendous fit for an underserved marketplace,'' he said.
 Fidelity and Vanguard are working from research that says portfolios can last for decades if retirees start with conservative withdrawal rates and make adjustments, usually up but sometimes down, depending on performance.
 Jonathan Guyton, a Minneapolis adviser who has worked with the Odlaugs since 1999, said that 5.4 percent was the safe initial withdrawal rate for a retirement portfolio allocated two-thirds to equities and one-third to fixed-income investments. Such a portfolio will last for 40 years, provided certain ''guardrails'' are observed, and can provide a major part of a retiree's income, said Mr. Guyton, who has written about safe withdrawal rates for The Journal of Financial Planning. 
 Annuities are another way to generate paychecks in retirement. After an initial lump-sum payment, annuities can be structured to pay a guaranteed monthly income stream for life, much like a pension. 
 Ms. Garrett of the Garrett Planning Network recommends that retirees use annuity payments along with Social Security checks to cover all their required basic monthly living expenses. If retirees have money left over, she said, they should invest it in growth stocks.
 That is essentially what Phyllis Visalli is doing. Mrs. Visalli, 73, of Wildwood Crest, N.J., owns two annuities, which she bought with a portion of the $650,000 she got from selling a motel she owned on the Jersey Shore.
 Between her two annuities and Social Security, Mrs. Visalli's income is approximately $3,430 a month, or about $41,000 annually. Her income will go up again this summer, when she starts getting $1,000 monthly checks from her son in return for selling him the other small motel she owned. 
 Mrs. Visalli also has more than $300,000 in a brokerage account, diversified among stocks, bonds and some real-estate investment trusts. She does not take money from the brokerage account on a regular basis, but could if she wanted to, said Martha Schilling, a financial adviser in Dresher, Pa.
 Besides the regular paychecks they set up for themselves, retirees who can afford to should create a reserve fund they can tap for unbudgeted expenses, like home repairs or spur-of-the-moment trips, experts said.
 For the Odlaugs, who are both 67 now, such a fund also resolved differences about money that surfaced after Mr. Odlaug cut back his hours. 
 With a father who died at 53 and a grandfather who died in his 40s, Mr. Odlaug was less worried about outliving his money than he was about enjoying his new free time, including taking some European golf vacations. Mrs. Odlaug, a careful budgeter, was more cautious. 
 Mr. Guyton suggested they take 5 percent of their liquid assets and create a discretionary fund. The fund is separate from the monthly paychecks the Odlaugs take to cover their living expenses, the quarterly paychecks that help them with real-estate taxes on their Minneapolis home and their Florida condominium, and the single annual withdrawal they use to buy insurance for long-term care. 
 ''It's been a help for Cathy's peace of mind,'' Mr. Odlaug said. The couple have dipped into the fund to send money to their children, travel to England and pay for elective lens implant surgery for Mrs. Odlaug. 
 The Odlaugs started saving for retirement 30 years ago, after a windfall from one of Mr. Odlaug's commercial real-estate cases, and are in good shape financially. But Mr. Guyton said they needed to remain open to ''a midcourse correction'' if something outside their control, like a long market downturn, disrupts their plans.
 Mr. Guyton does not usually have to spend much time on that prospect with his retired clients. 
 ''It resonates,'' he said. ''Retirees have had a lot of life experience, not all of it good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GOOD LIFE: Cathy and Bruce Odlaug, both 67, play golf near their vacation home on Sanibel Island, Fla. They started saving for retirement 30 years ago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



574 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Charge More, Merge Less, Fly Better

BYLINE: By ROBERT CRANDALL. 
Robert Crandall, the chief executive of American Airlines from 1985 to 1998, is the chief executive of an air taxi startup.

DATELINE: Palm City, Fla. 

 BODY:
 THIRTY years ago this fall, Congress passed the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978. Since then, America's airline system has greatly deteriorated. 
 Our airlines, once world leaders, are now laggards in every category, including fleet age, service quality and international reputation. Fewer and fewer flights are on time. Airport congestion has become a staple of late-night comedy shows. An ever higher percentage of bags are lost or sent to the wrong airports. Last-minute seats are harder and harder to find. Passenger complaints have skyrocketed. Airline service, by any standard, has become unacceptable. 
 Consolidation will not resolve the woes of individual carriers, nor will it fix the nation's aviation problems. Delta and Northwest agreed to a merger last week, and that deal is likely to be followed by other proposals. But the case for mergers is unpersuasive. Mergers will not lower fuel prices. They will not increase economies of scale for already sizable major airlines. They will create very large costs related to consolidation. And they will anger airline employees, who will perceive themselves to be hurt by the mergers. 
 Although the system could conceivably be operated by a single efficient carrier, consumers clearly benefit from the existence of multiple airlines. The absence of competition never fosters better customer service.
 Market-based approaches alone have not and will not produce the aviation system our country needs. We do not need to return to the over-regulation of the past, but some government intervention is required. The objectives of a national aviation policy should be to enable people to move easily from one place to another, to assure safe, courteous and on-time service for consumers, and to improve the financial performance and international competitiveness of America's airlines. 
 The first steps toward achieving these goals should be to improve our outdated air traffic control system, to build much-needed new runways and airport facilities, and to lower the heavy taxes and fees now imposed on airlines and their customers. 
 Today, aircraft movements are constrained by a radar-based air traffic control system that locks aircraft into predetermined, often crowded routes and that gives pilots little information about the locations of other planes. The system worsens congestion in the air and on the ground. 
 A new air traffic control system, based on the use of the global positioning system, is in the works. It will reduce costs and congestion by providing pilots with information about other planes, freeing them to choose optimal routes. Unfortunately, Congress has not provided the money to put the new system in place as quickly as possible.
 Until the new system is in place, the number of flights at major airports needs to be reduced. Right now, airlines schedule more flights than the runways, terminals and air traffic control system can accommodate. Airlines cannot unilaterally reduce flights because doing so would grant other airlines a competitive advantage. In the short term, the only solution is a government mandate that limits flights to the number the system can handle. To create capacity for future demand, we need to build more aviation facilities, including high-speed rail systems that would encourage the use of airports that are farther away from the cities they serve.
 The financial standards for new airlines also need to be made more stringent. In the years since deregulation, nearly 200 airlines have come and gone. These inadequately financed carriers -- whose principal goal has often seemed to be merely to exist long enough to reap the rewards of an initial public offering -- have consistently cut prices to attract passengers. This downward pressure on prices has hurt airlines that seek long-term success. 
 We should also revisit the basis on which we negotiate international aviation agreements. Since the 1980s, our government has too often agreed to ''consumer friendly'' pacts whose sole apparent purpose has been to try to lower prices for travelers. Because the United States has long been the world's largest aviation market, these agreements have provided more opportunities for expansion to foreign airlines than to our own, with predictable consequences.
 Given the recent concerns about aircraft safety, offshore maintenance of American aircraft should be prohibited. Maintenance performed in the United States is done under more demanding rules and a far higher level of Federal Aviation Administration oversight than work done abroad. Keeping the work here would enhance any safety improvements that result from the Transportation Department's new plan to overhaul its oversight procedures. Moreover, bringing aircraft maintenance work back to the United States will re-create many thousands of skilled jobs.
 Fees and taxes can be as much as 50 percent of the purchase price of an airline ticket and typically amount to about 15 percent, according to a study done by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Daniel Webster College in Nashua, N.H. Reducing these charges would make it easier for the carriers to recapture their costs without pricing travel beyond the reach of many customers. 
 Finally, we need to restore balance to the relationship between management and labor in the airline industry. Revising our bankruptcy laws to prevent failed airlines from continuing to operate would focus management and labor on the virtues of cooperation rather than confrontation. Similarly, binding arbitration of labor disputes would encourage both sides to avoid unreasonable positions and would free the nation's transportation system from the threat of work stoppages.
 We need to be realistic: whether there are mergers or not, airline fares are going to increase. Every business must charge enough to cover its operating and capital costs. Regulatory and oversight changes intended to make our carriers more successful may well force prices up faster than would otherwise be the case. But we will be better off with higher fares and more competitors than with higher fares and fewer competitors. 
 The enormous economic importance of our once peerless aviation system is indisputable. Adding some sensible regulations and making the investments needed to give our airlines opportunities for success would be a far better way to safeguard that economic contribution than further airline consolidation. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); DEREGULATION (91%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (69%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



575 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'HOW THEATER FAILED AMERICA'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Hey! Show Business Is Not A Business

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
Mike Daisey is not an instantly likable performer. He starts his latest monologue, ''How Theater Failed America,'' at a ranting pitch, a self-described fat guy who in minutes has sweat pouring down his reddened face. But he changes that tone in a flash and becomes so endearingly friendly that there was a moment, deep into his opening-night performance, when the entire room was quietly rapt -- not what you would expect at Joe's Pub, where silverware clangs while waiters circle. It takes a remarkable performer to pull that off. 
 Mr. Daisey, who tells personal stories in the spare, Spalding Gray style, is best known for ''21 Dog Years,'' an account of his time laboring in the brick-and-mortar of amazon.com. The title of this new piece, like his angry first impression, is misleading. The show is not a tirade but a gentle remembrance of how Mr. Daisey came to love theater, combined with some very funny stories about his professional misadventures (playing a masturbating bishop in a Seattle production of Genet's ''Balcony'' was one), and sardonic rebukes to the corporate types who now hold American theater, especially regional theater, hostage. 
 Recalling his college days at what he calls a micro-Ivy in New England, he combines a sense of the ridiculous -- an inspiring acting teacher resembled Gollum in ''Lord of the Rings'' -- with an unsappy yet powerful sense of the wonder of theater. As an audience member at the college's repertory season, he discovered the magic of actors transforming themselves every day into vastly different people.
 He and five friends tried to reproduce that magic -- with the evening's most hilarious results -- by founding Theater on the Pond, a one-summer-long experiment in far western Maine. There's regional theater, but that spot was ridiculous. Scheduling David Mamet next to Tennessee Williams and Neil Simon, troupe members did everything from act to buy gels for the lights. ''We had gels, 'cause what are we, animals?'' he asks, sardonically positioning himself as both inside and outside the theater world while never dropping his regular-guy persona. 
 As a professional actor traveling the country, he finds city after city where, he says, ''freeze-dried actors from New York'' are flown in for single runs, and he mourns the loss of the community that repertory fosters. He can be both understanding of the economic necessities and disingenuous about how simple a let's-make-some-art project can be, but mostly his observations about the problems facing theater are as obvious as: Art is not a commodity. His most pointed comment quotes an artistic director who worries: What if we lowered prices and audiences still didn't come? What if no one cares? 
 ''It's a cultural problem, not an economic problem,'' Mr. Daisey says. (Not very constructive but worth thinking about.)
 Problem-solving isn't his strength anyway; spinning out his personal story and unobtrusively taking the audience with him is. The moment that held everyone spellbound came when the monologue took an unexpectedly dark turn. He was out of college and seriously depressed, staying in bed all day and taking long nighttime walks. One walk led him into icy water, and he casually mentions two previous suicide attempts.
 He is pulled out of this depression by working with high school acting students, including Steve, a misfit in whom Mr. Daisey sees himself. He suggests -- without saying as much -- that they are both deeply unhappy people who find a refuge in performing, escaping onstage into other personalities, other realities. This section of the monologue offers tantalizing hints at the depths Mr. Daisey might have explored but chose not to. 
 No need to hold that against him, though. He may not have much to say, but he says it with enough mastery to restore that sense of wonder to the theater. 
 ''How Theater Failed America'' continues on Mondays at Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village; (212) 967-7555 or joespub.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Daisey in ''How Theater Failed America,'' a monologue of remembrances and rebukes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN YATAROLA)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: How Theater Failed America (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



576 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: What Ails the American Economy? Everything, and There's Worse to Come

BYLINE: By BARRY GEWEN. 
Barry Gewen is an editor at The New York Times Book Review.

 BODY:
 At a time when the Cassandras of finance are looking like realists, there is no gloomier prophet than Kevin Phillips. The author of 13 previous books including at least one classic, ''The Emerging Republican Majority,'' Mr. Phillips sees a perfect economic storm coming. The final pages of his bleak new book, ''Bad Money,'' tell of an ''unprecedented'' number of Americans planning to leave the country or thinking about it. Readers of ''Bad Money'' may come away with a similar impulse to flee.
 Mr. Phillips begins with an overview of the current debt debacle. The 1980s were the start of ''three profligate decades,'' when the expansion of mortgage credit and the invention of financial instruments like collateralized debt obligations (C.D.O.'s) led to an orgy of leveraging and irresponsible speculation. The Federal Reserve kept the bubble afloat with easy money, while regulators and ratings agencies looked the other way. 
 By 2007 total indebtedness was three times the size of the gross domestic product, a ratio that surpassed the record set in the years of the Great Depression. From 2001 to 2007 alone, domestic financial debt grew to $14.5 trillion from $8.5 trillion, and home mortgage debt ballooned to almost $10 trillion from $4.9 trillion, an increase of 102 percent. A crisis in the mortgage market in August 2007 brought the party to an end. Since then we have been living in a twilight zone of what a security analyst quoted in the book calls ''one of the slowest-moving train wrecks we've seen.''
 The second component of the perfect storm is the upheaval in the oil industry. Domestic production peaked in 1971, and there are signs that production worldwide is also peaking. (Mr. Phillips cites experts who believe it already has.) And with the emergence of new economic powers like China and India, demand has risen dramatically and prices have been climbing steadily; by 2004 a rapidly growing China had become the second largest oil consumer, after the United States. Despite the bad news at the gas pump, however, America has actually been getting a cost break, because the major suppliers price their oil in dollars. But with the dollar falling, OPEC has been talking about moving into other currencies. Were that to happen, ''the effects,'' Mr. Phillips says tersely, ''could be painful.''
 Finally, Mr. Phillips turns to what he terms America's ''calcified'' political system. We may need new regulations to deal with the debt mess, along with an energy policy to address the changing world of oil, but Washington, he says, has become dedicated to ''the politics of evasion,'' reluctant to pass dramatic reforms or to call for sacrifice from the public. Democrats and Republicans alike are so entrenched, so dependent on campaign money and special interests, that ''the notion of a breath of fresh air has become almost a contradiction in terms.'' Instead of a ''vital center'' in Washington, we now have a ''venal center.'' Mr. Phillips holds out little hope of improvement from a new president; he doubts that any administration could do much, even though ''the crisis is no longer in the future, but upon us.''
 Is such pessimism justified? Mr. Phillips says he is making no predictions, but that's not quite true. Throughout his book he tends to lean on the darkest analyses, though others might be less grim. And as readers of his earlier books know, he has a penchant for seeing parallels between the current situation in the United States and the declines of 17th-century Spain, the 18th-century Dutch Republic and early-20th-century Britain. 
 But historical comparisons are always dangerous playthings (remember all those foreign-policy analogies to Munich?): you necessarily have to cherry-pick eras and evidence from history's panorama. Perhaps there are similarities in the financial arrangements of monarchical Spain and democratic America, as Mr. Phillips says, but the differences between the two societies are far greater. It's hard not to feel that Mr. Phillips's argument has been shaped not only by his facts but also by his temperament.
 Still, even if his pessimism doesn't seem wholly warranted, a sense of foreboding surely is, which is why his warnings have to be taken seriously. Mr. Phillips writes that the inventors and marketers of the new financial instruments didn't entirely understand them. An executive of Fidelity International says a panicky feeling has set in on Wall Street because no one knows where the risks really are. The finance minister of France observes that investments may have reached such a level of complexity that no one can assess them. And Charles R. Morris, in his own gloomy book, ''The Trillion Dollar Meltdown,'' reports that even Citigroup's chief financial officer ''did not know how to value his holdings.''
 The screenwriter William Goldman once declared that in Hollywood ''nobody knows anything.'' When Wall Street begins to resemble the American Dream Factory, it's a safe bet that something has gone terribly wrong.
 BAD MONEY 
 Reckless Finance, Failed Politics and the Global Crisis of American Capitalism 
 By Kevin Phillips 
 239 pp. Viking. $25.95. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 The Books of The Times review on Monday, about ''Bad Money: Reckless Finance, Failed Politics and the Global Crisis of American Capitalism,'' by Kevin Phillips, misidentified the era of Britain's decline in which Mr. Phillips has seen parallels with the current situation in the United States. It was the early 20th century, not the early 19th century.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE LAMBERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%)

TITLE: Bad Money (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



577 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador's Leader Purges Military and Moves to Expel American Base

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: MANTA, Ecuador 

 BODY:
Chafing at ties between American intelligence agencies and Ecuadorean military officials, President Rafael Correa is purging the armed forces of top commanders and pressing ahead with plans to cast out more than 100 members of the American military from an air base here in this coastal city. 
 Mr. Correa -- who this month dismissed his defense minister, army chief of intelligence and commanders of the army, air force and joint chiefs -- said that Ecuador's intelligence systems were ''totally infiltrated and subjugated to the C.I.A.'' He accused senior military officials of sharing intelligence with Colombia, the Bush administration's top ally in Latin America. 
 The dismissals point to a willingness by Mr. Correa, an ally of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, to aggressively confront Ecuador's military, a bastion of political and economic power in this coup-prone country of 14 million people. Mr. Correa's moves mark a clear break with his predecessors, illustrating his wager that Ecuador's institutions may finally be resilient enough to carry out such changes after more than a decade of political upheaval. 
 The gambit also poses a clear challenge to the United States. For nearly a decade, the base here in Manta has been the most prominent American military outpost in South America and an important facet of the United States' drug-fighting efforts. Some 100 antinarcotics flights leave here each month to survey the Pacific in an elaborate cat-and-mouse game with drug traffickers bound for the United States. 
 But many Ecuadoreans have chafed at the American presence and the perceived challenge to the country's sovereignty, and Mr. Correa promised during his campaign in 2006 to close the outpost. 
 So far Ecuador's armed forces, arbiters in the ouster of three presidents in the last 11 years, have bent to the will of Mr. Correa, a widely popular left-leaning president who has sought to assert greater state control over Ecuador's petroleum and mining industries while challenging the authority of political institutions like the country's Congress. 
 Still, tensions persist over his clash with top generals, which emerged after Colombian forces raided a Colombian rebel camp in Ecuador last month. The raid against the rebel group, the Marxist-inspired Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, put Ecuador and its ally Venezuela on edge with Colombia. Twenty-five people were killed, including Franklin Aisalla, an Ecuadorean operative for the group, known as the FARC.
 The face-off between Ecuador and Colombia ended at a summit meeting in the Dominican Republic, but it has begun again over revelations that Ecuadorean intelligence officials had been tracking Mr. Aisalla, information that was shared not with the president, but apparently with Colombian forces and their American military advisers.
 The leak became evident when video and photo images surfaced in Colombia and Ecuador showing Mr. Aisalla meeting with FARC commanders.
 ''I, the president of the republic, found out about these operations by reading the newspaper,'' a visibly indignant Mr. Correa said last week during an interview in the capital, Quito, with foreign correspondents. ''This is not something we can tolerate. He added that he planned to restructure the intelligence agencies to give him greater direct control over them. 
 In a rebuke of senior military officials, Mr. Correa named as defense minister his personal secretary, Javier Ponce, who was an outspoken critic of the armed forces in his previous careers as a poet and an editorial writer at some of Ecuador's largest newspapers. 
 That move and other dismissals stand in contrast to Mr. Correa's conciliatory policies toward the military after he took office last year, which included salary raises for soldiers; a 25 percent increase in the 2008 military budget, to $920 million; and lucrative highway construction contracts for companies controlled by military officials. 
 Unlike the armed forces of most other countries in Latin America, Ecuador's military has retained substantial economic might since a military junta transferred power to a civilian government in the 1970s. 
 Through holding companies, the armed forces still control TAME, one of Ecuador's largest airlines, and enterprises in the munitions, shrimp fishing, construction, clothing, flower farming and hydroelectric industries, making the military one of the country's most powerful economic groups. 
 Mr. Correa has not challenged these financial interests. But he and his political supporters are moving forward with efforts to shift the military away from its traditional reliance on training and assistance from the United States and toward strengthening ties with the armed forces of other South American countries.
 The first indication of his plans to shift the country's focus was his promise to end the American presence at the Manta base once the United States' lease expired in 2009.
 This month his supporters, in an assembly convened to propose a new constitution, took up the cause, approving a measure that would go a step further and effectively outlaw foreign military bases in Ecuador after the lease expires. Since the American post at Manta is the only foreign military outpost in Ecuador, it was clear the move was a deliberate and very public swipe at the United States, which spent more than $60 million to build the facilities here for Awacs surveillance planes and crew members. 
 The ''forward operating location,'' as the American post is called, came into existence in 1999 in a 10-year deal with Ecuador after the Pentagon and Panama's government failed to agree on the use of Howard Air Force Base in Panama. The agreement, negotiated under extreme economic distress by a Ecuadorean president who was overthrown months later, includes no rent for Ecuador. 
 Mr. Correa has long been irked by the agreement, but his government's unease intensified in recent weeks after reports that the Manta base may have been used for support by American military personnel in Colombia's bombing raid of the FARC camp last month. United States Air Force officials here have denied the reports. 
 ''The only aircraft of ours that was flying at the time of the raid was a Coast Guard four-prop that was a thousand miles over the Pacific,'' Lt. Col. Robert Leonard, the ranking United States military officer in Ecuador, said in an interview in Manta, while acknowledging that the Pentagon was already looking at alternatives to the Ecuador base. 
 Colombia and Peru are the countries most often mentioned as potential new sites for the American surveillance aircraft, which track small planes, speedboats and semisubmersibles 2,000 miles into the Pacific Ocean, but no agreement has been reached. 
 Meanwhile, the assertions that American intelligence agencies were exerting too much influence in Ecuador have raised concerns among Mr. Correa's critics in Ecuador that he could take a radical turn like that of Mr. Chavez in Venezuela. Mr. Correa has been relatively moderate in his policies so far during his presidency.
 American officials gloss over the tension with Mr. Correa when speaking publicly. 
 ''Such relations are completely transparent via official and appropriate channels, and based on mutual interests,'' Arnaldo Arbesu, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Quito, said of ties between American intelligence officials and their Ecuadorean counterparts. 
 For now, at least, the last word on the issue may rest with Mr. Ponce, the rumpled poet thrust into the public eye as Mr. Correa's new defense minister. 
 In an interview in Quito, Mr. Ponce, 59, mentioned the moderately leftist governments of Brazil and Chile as potential partners for increased military cooperation, subtly suggesting a reluctance to depend heavily on Venezuelan aid, as countries like Bolivia have done. But he was also clear about relying far less on the United States.
 ''We must get past our legacy of relying too much on military relations with the United States, with President Bush showing little regard for national borders or sovereignty,'' Mr. Ponce said. ''The risk of remaining too close to such a partner is one of ideological contagion.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ecuador's president plans to close an American base in the city of Manta that conducts drug-trafficking surveillance. It is the United States' most prominent military outpost in South America.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A6)
 American-trained firefighters in Manta. The Ecuadorean military has long had close ties with the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The base in Manta surveys the Pacific for drug activity. Map details area of ECUADOR. (pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUPS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DRUG POLICY (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); MINES & MINING (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



578 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: You Can Panic In a Recession, Or You Can Strategize

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
WE all know the drill: invest for the long term, especially when planning for retirement. Don't panic. Even if the stock market is tumbling and the country is plunging into a recession, stick to your basic strategy. 
 Easy to say but not so easy to follow. And many experts acknowledge that you don't have to follow your plan 100 percent. 
 In certain circumstances, investors may be better off with stabler alternatives. This could also be a good time to take early retirement, cash in some holdings for the tax plays or find deals in -- yes -- real estate. 
 Financial decisions depend mostly on your age and tolerance for risk, but here is some general advice:
 Buy stocks selectively
 Most people will have to acquire more stocks just to bring their portfolios back to their original, long-range asset allocation. That is because of an investment concept known as rebalancing. Let's say you started a year ago with $1,000 in your 401(k), and your strategy calls for 60 percent of that to be in stocks. 
 Today, with all the financial losses, your portfolio is down to $900 in total, but your stocks have dropped far worse than your other investments. Even without selling a single share, you now have only $450, or 50 percent of the total, in stocks. To climb back to your 60 percent goal, you will have to buy $90 worth of more stocks.
 But which stocks? Steady, if stodgy, companies that sell staple commodities, charge low prices or pay dividends are usually a better bet in a recession than hot-shot growth stocks. Scott Tiras, a senior financial adviser in Houston for the financial planning firm Ameriprise Financial, recommends sugar, coffee, cacao, and oil and gas in the early part of a recession; later, as the economy improves, he said, gold and other metals pick up.
 TRY TO BE RATIONAL
 The true bottom line is that you want to sleep at night. If that means moving out of stocks into less volatile but lower-yielding investments like bonds, money market funds, Treasury bills, bank certificates of deposit and guaranteed investment contracts -- even as much as 70 percent of your assets -- many experts won't argue with a seriously scared customer. 
 One variation is to use part of your assets to buy laddered bonds, a series of bonds that mature in each of the next few years. The knowledge that they will have a secure income flow for those years, said Michael Goodman, a financial planner and president of Wealthstream Advisors in New York, ''gives people the confidence to let their money that's invested elsewhere continue to ride, so they don't destroy the integrity of that long-term investment plan.''
 LOOK ABROAD
 What if United States bonds and Treasury bills are also falling? In the last six months, ''international bonds have been a better hedge'' against stocks, said Gino Reina, director of investment research for the New York benefits-consulting firm Segal Company. He says that -- at least right now -- individuals may want to copy the strategy of big pension funds, which often put 5 to 10 percent of their assets in this category. The major disadvantage is the risk that the dollar will have dropped when you want to cash out.
 MAKE USE OF YOUR MORTGAGE
 As home values are sinking, Alan Glickstein, a senior retirement consultant in the Dallas office of the benefits consulting firm Watson Wyatt Worldwide, suggests a reverse mortgage. In this arrangement, which is available only to people 62 and older, you essentially turn your equity into an annuity. A lender guarantees you regular income payments for a fixed term -- which could be the rest of your life -- while you continue to live in your home, rent-free. After you die, the lender sells your house to recoup the principal and interest. 
 ''If you've been in the house for 20 or 30 years, all you've seen is your rate of appreciation slowing,'' Mr. Glickstein explained. ''You're still sitting on what may be the biggest piece of your retirement wealth.'' The reverse mortgage can give you better returns than a C.D., a money market fund or selling the house outright, he said.
 TAKE ADVANTAGE OF TAX BREAKS
 It's not much consolation, but if stock losses or pay cuts have bumped you down to a lower income tax bracket, that might be another reason to cash in some stocks, move the money to bonds and take the capital gains bite today. 
 In particular, Mr. Goodman of Wealthstream recommends converting a traditional individual retirement account to a Roth I.R.A. That's because you pay taxes on the traditional account when you leave and on the Roth when you start, with the net result that you will pay all the taxes on both the accounts now. When you finally cash out the Roth -- and, you hope, have moved back up to a higher tax bracket -- you will owe zero taxes. 
 GRAB THE CASH AND RETIRE NOW
 In tough times, many people feel they have to keep working forever. But because of the strange way accounting rules work, you might be better off retiring early, if your company lets you take your pension as a lump sum, said Randy Cusick, a senior consultant in the Philadelphia office of the benefits consulting firm Towers Perrin. Here's why: 
 Your company must calculate how much cash you would need today to equal the full value of your pension. In that calculation, it may include future interest earnings, but it must also assume that you will earn interest over your lifetime at the interest rate available today. If interest rates are low, as they are now, you will need a larger lump sum to reach the full value of your pension. 
 MAXIMIZE YOUR 401(K)
 If things get really tight, you can always pull money out of your 401(k) via a loan or a hardship withdrawal. Of course, you have to repay the loan with interest, and there are tax penalties on the hardship withdrawal. 
 In that case, why bother putting the money into the 401(k) to begin with? Why not just leave the cash in a bank account? 
 As long as you can squirrel away something in your 401(k), many employers will match part of what you contribute. Experts say it's foolish to walk away from that ''free money.'' That is advice that doesn't change in a recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (65%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



579 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: A Longer Goodbye

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
EDWARD M. HOUGHTON, a human resources executive at Pitney Bowes, was sick of traffic jams and unpredictable hours. Bina Kozak, who matches patients to cardiologists at a Scripps Health clinic in San Diego, wanted to volunteer for nonprofit agencies. James M. Wing, a pharmacist for CVSCaremark in Cincinnati, hated Ohio's harsh winters. 
 Each planned to retire last year. Back in the 20th century, their companies would have probably sent them off with gratitude and maybe a gold watch. 
 But that was before baby boomers began to reach retirement age. ''Companies could lose everyone who remembers how they handled the last economic downturn,'' said Alison Sander, who studies trends at the Boston Consulting Group. 
 Now some companies are taking preventive action. They are offering shorter hours, flexible locations and lighter duties, hoping to keep older workers on board longer. 
 ''They're letting older employees wind down gradually, so they can transfer their knowledge before it leaves for good,'' said Deborah Russell, director of work-force issues for AARP. 
 So Pitney Bowes, which is based in Stamford, Conn., is letting Mr. Houghton, 56, work a four-day week at a plant near his home in Shelton. Scripps Health has let Ms. Kozak, 62, work three days every two weeks. And CVS is sending Mr. Wing, 63, to Florida to work in stores there in the cold months. 
 ''Winter is CVS's busiest time in Florida, and it's when I want to enjoy the beaches and golf,'' said Mr. Wing, who plans to work until he is at least 70 years old. Mr. Houghton and Ms. Kozak said they felt re-energized by their shorter hours. ''I don't call it partial retirement; I call it working,'' Mr. Houghton said. 
 Ms. Kozak put it more simply. ''I can't see a downside for anyone,'' she said. 
 Nonetheless, programs to hold onto older workers are far from ubiquitous. 
 The accounting firm Ernst & Young recently asked 150 large companies how they were handling the graying work force. The norm was benign neglect. ''They all know that workers are getting older, but only companies on the cutting edge are focusing on ways to retain them,'' said Arthur L. Conat, an executive director at the firm. 
 In fact, some experts say that companies sabotage their relationships with older workers. 
 ''Most employers are not even making it easier for people who want to stay, let alone giving them incentives to stay,'' said Marc Freedman, author of ''Encore: Finding Work That Matters in the Second Half of Life.'' 
 Many companies still marginalize people who admit they are considering retirement, added Sandra Timmermann, director of the MetLife Mature Market Institute. ''They're made to feel like lame ducks if they announce their retirement too far in advance,'' she said. 
 Still, programs for retaining older workers are slowly emerging. 
 Dow Chemical has been asking key workers what it would take to keep them from retiring, and it has tailored programs accordingly. It recently let one 30-year veteran, a specialist in licensing procedures, relocate from Midland, Mich., to Oklahoma City so he could work while he cared for an aging parent. ''When someone's retirement will leave a real talent void, you find a way to keep them,'' said Darlene MacKinnon, director of leadership capabilities, global diversity and inclusion.
 Pitney Bowes has devoted an intranet page to explanations and anecdotal examples of its flexible work policies, and it is training managers to use those policies to retain older workers. ''We always had the policies,'' said Andrew R. Gold, executive director for global benefits planning, ''but until now, only the savviest employees asked to use them, and only the savviest managers said yes.''
 I.B.M. is letting many older workers shuck management responsibilities and spend their time passing on their expertise. Some are developing computer-related curriculums at universities. Others spend time on Thinkplace, an intranet page I.B.M. set up two years ago to help employees exchange ideas. ''That's where older workers get a chance to say, Hey, we tried that 10 years ago, and here's why it didn't work,'' said Gina Poole, an I.B.M. vice president. 
 That chance alone can re-energize a potential retiree. After 40 years with I.B.M., Mel Kunicki, 62, an expert in mainframe technology, was thinking of moving on. Instead, he now works from home and interacts on Thinkplace. ''I'm helping new people get their act together faster, and I'm helping people spot where the pitfalls in new mainframes might be,'' he said. ''I really like doing this, so why should I retire?''
 Rayfard W. Gage echoes that thought. After 30 years with Dow Chemical, Mr. Gage, 54, was ready to retire from his high-level maintenance post at a plant in Freeport, Tex. Then his supervisor let him spend two months heading a project at a Dow plant in Canada. 
 Mr. Gage is back at the Freeport plant, but he still has weekly teleconferences with his Canadian colleagues. ''It no longer feels like I'm doing the same old thing,'' Mr. Gage said. ''I see no reason to retire now.''
 Of course, many companies have long had programs in place to tap the expertise of retirees. Hewlett-Packard regularly uses retirees to promote its products in stores. Boston Consulting and other service firms offer contracts to older professionals to continue working with specific clients. Dow has set up a page on its Web site where Dow alumni, retirees and current employees can exchange ideas. And Deere & Company pays retirees to manage short-term projects or hold classes for newcomers. Many companies have also been offering flexible work arrangements. Indeed, many cornerstones of phased retirement -- telecommuting, full benefits for part-time work and such -- surfaced 30 years ago, when baby boomers were starting families and companies feared that they would quit en masse. 
 But for the new parents, balancing time was more important than keeping benefits, since many people had access to a working spouse's insurance. For the potential retirees, many of whom live alone or with retired spouses, the priorities are reversed. 
 Jane B. VanDenburgh, a registered nurse at Memorial Regional Medical Center in Mechanicsville, Va., had been a bedside nurse for 40 years, and she was finding it ever more difficult to keep up with new technology. The idea of losing her benefits troubled her, but she still planned to retire last year. 
 But the Bon Secours Richmond Health System, which runs Memorial Regional, let her switch to a part-time desk job and continued to pay half of her insurance costs. Ms. VanDenburgh, who is in her late 60s, now plans to stay at least until September, when her first grandchild is due. ''I feel like I received a gift,'' she said. 
 It is a gift for Bon Secours as well. Bon Secours, like many hospitals, is coping with a shortage of nurses and struggling to hold on to older ones. It has given grandchildren more spots in its day-care center and made them eligible for company-paid scholarships. Last year it began offering classes in painting and dance to cater to older workers with an artistic bent. 
 This year, it created Lift Teams -- groups of strapping young people who will take over the physically demanding parts of nursing. And it has let some nurses move into desk jobs, like planning patient discharges. 
 ''We're educating our managers to offer new jobs to people who want to retire,'' said Dawn Malone, administrative director for work and family services. 
 Scripps Health, which runs health centers throughout San Diego, faces an even thornier problem: California has a law mandating the ratio of nurses to patients. Nearly 40 percent of the Scripps work force is over 50, ''and it's quite scary, what could potentially happen on some of our nursing units if they retire at traditional ages,'' said Victor V. Buzachero, senior vice president for human resources. 
 So Scripps lets employees work abbreviated weeks. They retain health insurance and can begin withdrawals from retirement plans. 
 Electric utilities may be the next bastion of retirement panic. Few young people are choosing careers in the industry, so many utilities hear the tick of the demographic time bomb. 
 At Pacific Gas & Electric in San Francisco, 42 percent of its workers -- and 50 percent of managers -- are eligible to retire. The company has been interviewing these people about their jobs and posting the information on an intranet database. It is pairing would-be supervisors with older ones. It may soon film experienced workers as they do their jobs, and post the films on the intranet. 
 ''And we're taking a fresh look at our pension calculator to see if we can make it financially worthwhile for older workers to ratchet down hours rather than just leave,'' said Van Ton-Quinlivan, director for work-force strategy and diversity.
 The situation seems less dire at Duke Energy, where about a third of the 18,000 workers will be eligible for retirement over the next five years. But Duke operates several nuclear power plants, which makes it essential to keep experienced workers. 
 So last autumn, Duke, based in Charlotte, N.C., asked its managers to assess what Allison Honeycutt, the company's work-force strategy director, calls the ''degree of criticality of knowledge'' of every employee old enough to retire. It has asked the managers to create strategies to transfer that knowledge while there is still time.
 Allowing workers to change their location is usually not an option at hospitals and utilities. But retail chains can be more flexible. 
 Three years ago, CVS started its Snowbirds program to let employees like Mr. Wing migrate with the seasons. Stephen M. Wing, the director of work-force initiatives -- and, at 57, James Wing's younger brother -- said that 1,250 employees participated in the program, and that a majority were older than 50. ''We hear it time and again, that people would retire if they didn't have this opportunity,'' he said. 
 Borders Group, a bookstore chain with a relatively young work force, is counting on older people flocking to its stores for the chance to be migratory. The company looked at census figures and realized that there were ''going to be a lot fewer young workers to go after,'' said Daniel T. Smith, senior vice president for human resources. 
 So Borders has been recruiting older workers, offering them full benefits for part-time work and -- like CVS -- letting them switch locations in different seasons. ''This way,'' Mr. Smith said, ''we get to hire the people who are phasing into retirement elsewhere.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STATIONED: Jane VanDenburgh, near right, with Basimah Abdur-Rahman at Memorial Regional Medical Center in Virginia, both registered nurses. A part-time desk job persuaded Ms. VanDenburgh to keep working.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PITCHING IN: Rayfard Gage, left, of Dow Chemical at a chlorination plant in Freeport, Tex., where he oversees operations. Mel Kunicki, above, of I.B.M. working from home in a Chicago suburb.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS OCKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE KUYKENDAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. H10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); TRENDS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); MATURE MARKET (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: PITNEY BOWES INC (58%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



580 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: A Web Shift In the Way Advertisers Seek Clicks

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Tyler Townsend, a digital media manager who plans online advertising for travel clients at Ypartnership, an agency in Orlando, had $150,000 to spend on behalf of a Caribbean island's visitors bureau. And this client did not care about branding -- it wanted action.
 So Mr. Townsend, who once might have made a simple buy on a site like Yahoo, created a complex campaign, which ran in March. He bought ads on Budget Travel, and he bought out Lonely Planet's home page for a week. He used custom ad networks that included travel-themed sites, and another that would put the ads only on high-end sites. 
 Last year, Mr. Townsend said, many clients were happy to spend money just to raise awareness. Since January, however, ''everyone's retail-oriented. They want as many clicks for the dollar as possible,'' he said. 
 So far, the threat of a recession has not slowed the migration of ad dollars to the Internet -- as Google's strong results showed on Thursday, when it reported a 30 percent jump in net income for its first quarter. But as Mr. Townsend's campaign suggests, the slowing economy might be changing where those ad dollars are being spent. 
 Increasingly, marketers are looking to ad networks, which sell display advertising across groups of Web sites. Some networks offer targeted advertising; others, called vertical ad networks, include sites that focus on one subject, like travel or sports.
 Their growth could mean a lower share of advertising for portals like AOL and particularly for Yahoo, which is particularly strong in traditional display advertising. (Yahoo will report its quarterly earnings on Tuesday.)
 In 2007, United States revenue growth slowed at three of the four major portals (Yahoo, AOL and Google) according to an analysis by eMarketer. The fourth is MSN. Any downturn could also be bad news for media sites that attract a lot of display advertising, like CNN.com or nytimes.com, at premium rates. 
 In the United States, $21.1 billion was spent on online advertising last year, up from $16.9 billion in 2006, according to eMarketer. Search advertising -- Google's stronghold -- is the majority of that spending, according to Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein. 
 According to a report by Imran Khan, an Internet analyst at JPMorgan Chase, ad networks ''are growing much faster than the general graphical advertising industry.'' He estimated that the top 20 ad networks had earned $2 billion in 2007, or 14 percent of the display market.
 The reasons ad networks are thriving are price and improved technology. Ad networks charge much lower cost per thousand ads served (known as CPMs), as low as $4 on an ad network with some targeting, compared with $40 and up for some ads on premium sites like MSN or Yahoo. 
 ''While the home pages are still very effective media buys, the price tags on them have become a little outrageous for many advertisers. For all the growth that has gone on from a site standpoint, there are other ways to amass that type of audience fairly quickly that are more efficient,'' said Margaret Clerkin, the chief executive of Mindshare Interaction, a media-buying firm.
 The improved technology has helped. Ad networks once served ads to pages where no advertiser wanted to be, like pages that get few hits or those with controversial content. Now, though, many attractive sites are not major home pages. Also, many ad networks now offer targeting (as do portals, for a higher price), matching ads to likely buyers. 
 For example, if an airline wants to promote a flight from Dallas to Chicago, it can direct those ads to users with Internet addresses from those areas. Marketers can also direct ads by content: a reader on a cellphone ratings site is probably looking to buy a new phone, while another reader on the Yahoo technology home page might be browsing stories about Wi-Fi and not looking to buy anything. 
 David Metter, chief marketing officer of MileOne/Atlantic Automotive, a group of car dealerships with over 3,000 employees, said that it was possible to ''blow your spend'' on a home page ad.
 ''I would much rather get more specific and go to the customers and have maybe less eyeballs and higher quality eyeballs, or less leads and higher quality leads,'' he said.
 Based on the success of ad networks, some big players are buying their way into the game. Yahoo bought BlueLithium for $300 million last September. Last July, AOL bought Tacoda for a reported $275 million, and in November, it bought Quigo Technologies for a reported $350 million. Last May, Microsoft bought aQuantive, which owns some ad networks through a subsidiary, for $6 billion. DoubleClick, which also owns ad networks, was acquired by Google for $3.1 billion. Dozens of other networks have sprung up -- one tally at eConsultant lists more than 80. 
 ''There's no slowdown in terms of a really targeted ad spend,'' said Mitch Lowe, whose network, Jumpstart Automotive Media, handles ads for 12 automotive sites. (Jumpstart was sold to Hachette Filipacchi Media last year for $110 million.) 
 However, the reliance on ad networks mean that two of their major attractions -- that they are simple and that they are cheaper -- are diminished.
 ''These are the gold rush days now for ad networks,'' said David Hallerman, senior analyst with eMarketer. ''And that kind of counters the appeal of ad networks for advertisers' agencies, which was to simplify the purchase of ads. And that's why its unlikely that a great number of ad networks will survive.''
 Even given the choice of ad networks, the continued flow of dollars online means that prices are rising. 
 Mr. Townsend says that his clients were happy with their campaign and want him to do a similar one. Except this time, they want him to hit the networks even harder. 
 ''We thought,'' Mr. Townsend said, ''for this amount of dollars, we can get you this many more impressions than we did.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); VERTICAL MARKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%)

COMPANY: YPARTNERSHIP (91%); YAHOO! INC (86%); GOOGLE INC (86%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (62%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); JPM (NYSE) (62%); JPM (LSE) (62%); 8634 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



581 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: She Wants a Career and He Wants Golf. Now What?

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
WITH his longtime New York City estate and business law practice winding down, Robert Rubinger was ready to retire five years ago, at age 76. But his wife, Nancy, who was then 66, was not.
 Ms. Rubinger had started working at a nonprofit organization only 13 years earlier, after the couple's two children were grown. ''I was really having a very good time,'' she said. ''I find it extremely gratifying to help people.''
 So Mr. Rubinger happily retired, while his wife happily kept working. But problems cropped up. 
 ''There were some mornings when I would have liked to have slept in, and he's fast asleep,'' Ms. Rubinger recalled. She would ask herself, Why do I have to go out in the snow and rain? 
 Then, when she got home from work at 7:30 p.m., she would ask her husband whether he had made plans for dinner. No, he would reply, ''I'm waiting for you.'' 
 Ms. Rubinger said, laughing, ''I would suggest that maybe it would be a good idea that he would do a little bit more'' around the house, but finally she gave up. ''I knew it would be a lost cause.''
 Her husband's version: Housework, he said, ''was never part of my life. She would have to guide me, but we never had any real deep discussions as to what my role would be.''
 Scenes like this are becoming more common as the first mass generation of career women reaches the traditional retirement ages of 60 to 65. Experts on aging say that the phenomenon began about five years ago and will continue to expand as more women enter their 60s. These are the wives who swept into the work force in the late 1970s and early '80s, just as the women's movement was pushing open career doors. Many had stayed home taking care of the house and family, and often, like Ms. Rubinger, put off entering the work force until their children were in school, in college or even grown. 
 ''In the past, other generations for the most part only had to deal with one retirement,'' said Phyllis Moen, a sociology professor at the University of Minnesota. But nowadays, when the husband is ready to relax after four decades of work, the wife might have barely begun her working life. ''Wives often feel, I finally got rid of the kids, I'm finally moving up in the job, and I don't want to retire,'' Dr. Moen said. ''There's just a mismatch between the two.''
 Of course, even a traditional retirement, like any life-cycle transition, can cause strains in a marriage, so the timing mismatch just adds one more hitch. There may be arguments over washing the dishes, vacations and moving. Roles that have been set in stone for decades are upturned. ''When you're retired at different times, there are very different agendas,'' said Maryanne Vandervelde, author of the book ''Retirement for Two'' and a founder of the Institute for Couples in Retirement in Seattle.
 The cases usually involve a retired husband and a wife who is still working, like the Rubingers, rather than the other way around. The feminist movement and the fact that many women are entering the working world late in life make up only part of the picture. Wives in this generation also tend to be younger than their spouses and thus further from retirement age. Moreover, experts like Dr. Moen say that men are more likely to have the kind of work that pushes them to retire, because of physically demanding labor that they can no longer do or generous pensions that allow them the luxury of quitting.
 Housework is probably the No. 1 cause of friction. When both spouses were working, the woman might have done most of the cooking and cleaning. Now, Dr. Moen said, ''He's home all day, and the wives feel he should do more.''
 Ideally, the couple can work out a schedule. But sometimes the husband just waits for the wife to ask for his help. Many men take on chores like loading the dishwasher or organizing the kitchen, said Sheila Felberbaum, a psychotherapist in Hauppauge, N.Y., who said that about 30 percent of the older couples she worked with were in a situation where only one spouse had retired. 
 Why those particular tasks? Because they appeal to the ''engineering personality,'' Ms. Felberbaum said.
 But even carefully planned arrangements can leave a trail of resentments.
 ''He does a lot more than he did before,'' Dr. Moen said, ''but he's not doing what she expects.'' On the other hand, if the husband becomes too actively involved in housework, some women have trouble adjusting to this invasion of what had been their domain. The husband who re-engineers the dishwasher loading, Ms. Felberbaum said, ''is telling the wife she's not doing a very good job of that, even though she's done that for 30 years.'' 
 Leisure time also creates discord. Wives feel guilty about leaving their husbands alone. Husbands pressure their wives to spend more time with them. But a working woman can't dash off to Arizona on vacation the way her retired husband can. 
 Laura B. Wilson, director of the Center on Aging at the University of Maryland School of Public Health, has seen both sides in the last decade in the volunteer programs and adult-education classes that she runs for people over age 50. 
 ''The men are being sent by their wives,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''The women are staying in the work force, and they're afraid their husbands are going to sit in front of the TV.'' Meanwhile, she added, the husbands are complaining, saying: ''I want to travel. I want my wife to retire. I want her to be with me to do these things.'' 
 Often, the husband's pressure works. In about 20 percent of the couples in her programs, Dr. Wilson said, ''Women say things like, I retired because of him, and I'm going crazy.'' 
 Experts say the solution is to talk about the issues, starting years before retirement age. 
 ''You have to think in terms of compromise,'' Dr. Vandervelde said.
 The woman could work part time, or the man could take up a new hobby. Gordon F. Homes Jr., a senior financial planner with MetLife, said that husbands might have a self-interest in making their wives' lives easier. ''Sometimes the wife's economic contribution is substantial,'' he said. ''Her continuing to work is part of what makes it possible for him to retire.''
 Patricia Clark, 61, a medical secretary on Long Island, said she did not mind when her husband, Charles, 64, a retired operations director at Estee Lauder, visited their son in Florida without her, because they play golf all day. ''It isn't like a real vacation for a couple,'' her husband said.
 And if the strains persist, experts say, the mismatch will not last forever. Eventually, even the most dedicated career woman stops working of her own accord. Ms. Rubinger, for instance, retires in June. Then these couples face new problems. Do they really want to be together 24/7?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WORKING: Nancy Rubinger, far left, executive director of Congregation Beth Elohim, in her Brooklyn office. Her husband, Robert, at home in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (RUBINGERS))
 PLAYING: Charles Clark, right, honing his putting skills at his home in Miller Place, N.Y. His wife, Patricia, works as a medical secretary in Wading River.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (CLARKS)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



582 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Whatever You Do, Call It Work

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
RETIREMENT used to be the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, life's reward, time as enviable as wealth. But in an age-defying, competitive culture, it has become something of a dirty word.
 Susan Stone, a retired high school teacher and department head in Great Neck, N.Y., whose daughter was married several weeks ago, saw herself referred to as ''retired'' in a wedding announcement and was shocked at seeing it in print.
 ''That was the one word that stung,'' she said. Ms. Stone, 64, added, ''It's a negative word. It creates the impression that you've left the busy, active world.'' She called her two-year-old retirement ''a work in progress.''
 As many stay in the work force longer, going on to second or third careers, the social question ''What do you do?'' is now as likely to be asked of those in their 60s as those in their 30s. And if you're retired, saying ''I'm retired'' might not be an acceptable answer. 
 ''It depends on who's asking,'' said Richard Brems, a former marketing executive in St. Charles, Ill., of The Question. To friends and family, Mr. Brems, 63, is basically retired.
 But to new acquaintances, he is ''self-employed'' as a business consultant. ''It sounds more dynamic,'' Mr. Brems said. ''There's a stigma to say 'retired.' '' 
 James H. Schulz, a retired professor of economics at Brandeis University, whose focus is the finances of aging, recalled being in demand as a speaker on the subject. When the university appended ''emeritus'' to his title, Mr. Schulz, 72, said, ''the phone stopped ringing. That is the stereotype, and it's very real.''
 It is better now in retirement to be a consultant, an independent contractor, an owner of a business, a dedicated volunteer, a portfolio manager, a pro bono worker or any variety of self-employment, as long as it is perceived as work.
 Sue Korn, who retired as a learning disabilities specialist for the Dalton School and Allen-Stevenson School in New York, consults privately and volunteers for the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation.
 ''I say, 'I do some consulting and I'm doing a lot of volunteering,' '' Ms. Korn, 62, said. ''It's an identity thing. Even though I'm retired from all the primary things that I was doing, one of the reasons I keep my hand in is my identity is tied up with what I did.''
 According to a report released in 2005 by AARP, 69 percent of individuals between the ages of 45 and 74 working or looking for work intended to work in some capacity during retirement.
 Not having employment has become an awkward social issue, and if what you do in retirement doesn't sound professional enough, in the words of one person interviewed, you dress up the situation, like a resume.
 ''People have their own little firms, maybe a second phone number, or a fax number, but there's not much going on there,'' said Denis Lamb, a retired diplomat in Arlington, Va., of acquaintances. Mr. Lamb, 70, tells people he is retired but also explains that he does a lot, though not for money. That includes working for nonprofit groups like the Washington Institute of Foreign Affairs, which he characterized as ''a bunch of retired people.'' Mr. Lamb called them ''formers'' -- former diplomats, former generals, former C.I.A. operatives.
 When George J. Harad, who retired as the chief executive of OfficeMax and Boise Cascade, is asked what he does, Mr. Harad, 64, of Boise, Idaho, said he told people ''I do a variety of things,'' including advising public and private boards and managing family investments. ''Retirement is not viewed as an occupation,'' he said.
 Joel Savishinsky, a professor of social sciences in the department of anthropology and the Gerontology Institute at Ithaca College, said, ''What has happened in American culture in the last century is that we've created retirement as a new stage of life, but we haven't caught up with that social reality.'' 
 Lawrence Berger does not describe himself as retired. But because he doesn't, that raises its own questions. Now general counsel for the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Mr. Berger, 60, resigned two years ago as a partner after a 33-year career at a Philadelphia law firm to work part time for the museum and as an adviser with the firm. 
 ''My mother-in-law asked me, 'Did you get fired?' when I left the firm,'' Mr. Berger recalled. ''In a society with a premium on youth and energy, when people leave careers before 65, people wonder whether they were leaving voluntarily.''
 At age 71, Francis G. Caro, a gerontologist at the University of Massachusetts Boston and editor of The Journal of Aging and Social Policy, said that he had begun to encounter a reverse assumption, which is the question, ''What did you used to do?'' Mr. Caro said of his frustration with having to correct people, ''I'm still working.''
 But his advocacy for greater opportunities for older people in the work force might have started what critics warned it might -- changed expectations about how long people nearing or passing retirement age should remain traditionally productive. In retirement years, Mr. Caro said, it would become ''less acceptable to say, 'Hey, I'm having a good time doing my own thing.' ''
 Social awkwardness aside, many people are happy in retirement. 
 ''I got used to it in about five minutes,'' Mary Curtis said. ''I revel in it every day.'' Ms. Curtis, 60, of Ann Arbor, Mich., retired after 29 years as a sales representative for Abbott Laboratories. She said she thought the question, ''What do you do?'' was rude.
 ''I tell them, I do everything -- I do it all,'' she said. ''People lose interest if you're not in a position to help them. I have no shame in putting myself in a position where I could retire.''
 Mr. Savishinsky of Ithaca College said that one of the most intriguing aspects of his work on retirement was to make comparisons with other cultures. In India, in Hindu society, he said, the occupation of your final stage of life was to renounce everything and set out as a spiritual wanderer on an unknown path -- a trip with a positive goal that sounds like the negative description of retirement as losing your way.
 In the Hindi language, the wanderer is called a sannyasin.
 Try telling that to the next person who asks.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTORIA ROBERTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); VOLUNTEERS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ONCOLOGY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008



583 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Big Brown's Stock Is Up, But It Could Really Soar

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
Big Brown is lightly raced, has tender feet and is the early favorite to win the 134th Kentucky Derby, which, statistically, has proved to be the kiss of death on the first Saturday in May. Still, his trainer, Richard Dutrow Jr., said he would be ''all in'' on Big Brown.
 The last time Dutrow went all in on one of his horses was at the 2005 Breeders' Cup Classic: he said he bet $160,000 on Saint Liam and won $384,000 when the horse won by a length. No matter how much he wagers on Big Brown in the Derby, however, it will pale in comparison to what the colt's majority owner, International Equine Acquisitions Holdings, will have at stake.
 I.E.A.H. is applying the lucrative lessons its founders learned on Wall Street to an industry that has proved inscrutable to many other successful businessmen. It is currently raising $100 million to buy, sell and breed horses, and it will operate like a hedge fund, collecting management and performance fees. The founders want to take the company public before the end of the year. 
 So far, their fundamentals have been sound; the company's horses have won 25 percent of the time this year and earned more than $3.1 million in purses, putting I.E.A.H. among the top owners in North America. On Sept. 3, when Big Brown rocketed to an 11 1/4-length victory in his debut on the turf at Saratoga, the company's co-president, Michael Iavarone, said he knew he had found a key component of I.E.A.H.'s future.
 He called Dutrow from his house in Long Island as Big Brown crossed the finish line. ''I have to own this horse,'' he told him. ''We can win the Derby with this one.''
 A few days and $3 million later, the company owned 75 percent of Big Brown. Now, I.E.A.H. is not only intent on capturing the Kentucky Derby, America's greatest horse race, but it also wants to remake the economic landscape of a multibillion-dollar industry.
 ''It would show how you can move the blue blood from Kentucky to New York,'' Iavarone said, referring to both a Big Brown victory and his horse hedge fund. 
 Neither the racetrack nor Wall Street traffics in sure things, however, and as talented as Big Brown, the undefeated son of Boundary, is, he must defy some compelling historical data. 
 A chestnut colt, Big Brown has raced only three times. The last Derby winner so untested was the filly Regret in 1915. Last year, for example, Curlin, the eventual Horse of the Year, arrived at Churchill Downs similarly undefeated after three starts, but he finished third as the second betting choice. Big Brown ran in only two prep races this year, a lack of seasoning that only two Derby champions in the last 60 years have been able to overcome: Sunny's Halo in 1983 and Street Sense last year. 
 Then there are Big Brown's troubled front hooves, which have been responsible for his limited number of starts and his long absences from the racetrack. Shortly after I.E.A.H. purchased him, Big Brown got an abscess in the sole of his left front hoof, which caused a wall separation and kept him idle for 45 days. He had the same injury in his right front hoof in mid-December and did not train in January.
 ''The injury is caused by concussion -- his feet hitting a hard surface -- and they take time to heal,'' said Ian McKinlay, a New York-based hoof specialist who continues to treat Big Brown. 
 When Big Brown finally returned to racing, at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale Beach, Fla., in a mile race on March 5, McKinlay fitted him with special glue-on shoes. The shoes had a thick polyurethane bottom to ensure that nothing hard touched the colt's sole. Big Brown won effortlessly, by 12 3/4 lengths. Twenty-four days later, in the Florida Derby, Big Brown led every step of the way as his jockey, Kent Desormeaux, sat atop him like a leisure rider during a five-length victory.
 ''His feet are ice-cold now, and we're not going to have any more problems,'' Dutrow said. ''I look at everything Big Brown has done and then at every other 3-year-old out there, and there is no comparison. Beat him? I'm not sure any of them can run close to him.''
 There is little doubt that Big Brown will be the most accomplished horse in the field of 20 that is expected to line up at the gate in Louisville beneath Churchill Downs's famed twin spires. But is he or any other racehorse a valuable enough commodity to build a lucrative hedge fund around?
 In 2007, more than $15.4 billion was bet on horses in North America, more than $1.1 billion in purses was distributed and more than $1.2 billion was spent purchasing thoroughbreds, according to the Jockey Club. Iavarone and his co-president, Richard J. Schiavo -- both of whom left Wall Street and investment banking -- say they have a way of offering more people more opportunity to make money at the racetrack. 
 Since its inception in 2003, I.E.A.H. has raised more than $40 million from more than 80 investors and has formed partnerships to own various horses. The hedge fund model will supplant this arrangement; partners will own a part of all I.E.A.H. assets, from its 80 horses in training to its 15 broodmares and its future stallions, including the 2007 Breeders' Cup Mile champion, Kip Deville; Benny the Bull, winner of the $2 million Dubai Golden Shaheen; and Big Brown.
 Each financial quarter, an independent auditor will assess the fund's value, and investors will be able to decide to buy into the fund or sell their positions. ''What we're offering are liquidity and options that people in the horse business have never had before,'' Iavarone said. 
 There is no doubt Big Brown is the component with the greatest upside within the company's portfolio. If he wins the Derby, he will immediately be worth $30 million as a stallion. As a rookie sire, he is certain to command at least the $100,000 per coupling that the 2004 Derby winner, Smarty Jones, commands, and attract 150 or more mares. If Big Brown becomes the first horse since Affirmed in 1978 to win a Triple Crown, there is no telling how valuable he will become. 
 So just like Dutrow, I.E.A.H. is all in on Big Brown.
 The colt's minority owner, Paul Pompa Jr., has already experienced a windfall. In April 2007, he bought Big Brown at a 2-year-old-in-training sale for $190,000, and named him because his family-owned trucking company in Brooklyn had just renewed a contract with a longtime client, U.P.S. When Big Brown's scintillating debut at Saratoga brought deep-pocketed suitors, Pompa adhered to the golden rule of horse racing: take the money.
 ''I chose I.E.A.H. because they were young, classy, impressive guys,'' said Pompa, who has owned horses for 15 years. ''And they were going to let me keep a piece of the horse.''
 He said he wished them well in their mission to change the face of horse partnerships, but that he was not interested in joining them. He said some things remain priceless.
 ''I want to win the greatest race in the world,'' he said. ''I want to make history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: There is no telling how much Big Brown's value would increase if he won the Triple Crown.
Big Brown, the early Kentucky Derby favorite, has raced only three times because of abscesses in each of his front hooves. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC SEROTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
The trainer Richard Dutrow Jr., left, with Big Brown. Dutrow says ''there is no comparison'' with any other 3-year-old. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC SEROTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Kent Desormeaux riding Big Brown to the starting gate for the Florida Derby on March 29. Big Brown won by five lengths. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STOCKMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (91%); HORSE RACING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



584 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 376 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS It is a slow week for economic news, though there will be updates on the housing market with reports on existing home sales for March on Tuesday and new-home sales for March on Thursday. 
 Other reports will include durable goods for March (Thursday) and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).
 COMPANY REPORTS Earnings season hits a fever pitch. Reports will come from Bank of America, Boston Scientific, Eli Lilly, Fannie Mae, Gannett, Halliburton, Hasbro, Mattel, Merck, Novartis and Texas Instruments (Monday); AK Steel, AT&T, DuPont, JetBlue Airways, Kimberly-Clark, Lexmark, Lockheed Martin, McDonald's, Omnicom, UAL, UnitedHealth, Wyeth, Yahoo and Yum Brands (Tuesday); Allstate, Amazon.com, Anheuser-Busch, Apple, Biogen Idec, Boeing, Delta Air Lines, EMC, General Dynamics, GlaxoSmithKline, McClatchy, Northwest Airlines, Pepsi Bottling, Philip Morris, Qualcomm, Schering-Plough, United Parcel Service and WellPoint (Wednesday); 3M, Altria, American Express, Amgen, AstraZeneca, BASF, Beazer Homes, Black & Decker, Blockbuster, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Charles Schwab, Coca-Cola Enterprises, ConocoPhillips, Credit Suisse, Dow Chemical, E.W. Scripps, Eastman Chemical, Electronic Data Systems, Ford Motor, Hershey, ImClone, Microsoft, Motorola, Newell Rubbermaid, Newmont Mining, Nintendo, Nissan Motor, Northrop Grumman, PepsiCo, Raytheon, Sony, ThomsonReuters, Travelers, Union Pacific, US Airways, Whirlpool and XM Satellite Radio (Thursday); and Goodyear Tire and Rubber and Wendy's (Friday).
 ON CAPITOL HILL The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher Cox, testifies at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on the role of rating agencies in the credit crisis (Tuesday).
 The Senate Commerce Committee conducts a hearing on the future of the Internet (Tuesday).
 A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee conducts a hearing on contaminated heparin from China (Tuesday).
 A Senate Commerce subcommittee will have a hearing on safety programs at the Federal Aviation Administration (Wednesday).
 A Senate Judiciary subcommittee will have a hearing on the proposed Delta-Northwest merger (Thursday).
 The Senate Banking Committee will have a hearing on credit markets (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (75%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (68%); SATELLITE RADIO (65%); TIRES (65%); INTERNET & WWW (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (83%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (71%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (70%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (67%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); AMGEN INC (57%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (57%); NOVARTIS AG (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (57%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); YUM! BRANDS INC (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); PEPSICO INC (56%); WELLPOINT INC (56%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (56%); BOEING CO (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); RAYTHEON CO (55%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (55%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (55%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (55%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (55%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (83%); COP (NYSE) (82%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (71%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (70%); GT (SWX) (67%); GT (NASDAQ) (67%); GT (BRU) (67%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%); BSX (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (57%); AZN (STO) (57%); AZN (NYSE) (57%); AZN (LSE) (57%); NVS (NYSE) (57%); NOVN (SWX) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); AKS (NYSE) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); YUM (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); WLP (NYSE) (56%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); OMC (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); MO (NYSE) (56%); GD (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (55%); NEM (NYSE) (55%); UNP (NYSE) (55%); NWL (NYSE) (55%); NOC (NYSE) (55%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%); SCHW (NYSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); 7201 (TSE) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); CCE (PAR) (55%); CCE (NYSE) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (71%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (70%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (67%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (67%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (67%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (67%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (67%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (55%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (55%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



585 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Pressures Automakers to Improve Efficiency

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
The Chinese government is putting pressure on automakers to improve energy efficiency, but consumers are increasingly interested in large sport utility vehicles and full-size luxury cars, auto executives said on Sunday at the opening of the Beijing auto show.
 The shift of the Chinese market toward larger vehicles will probably push up the country's already voracious demand for imported oil and make China an even bigger emitter of global warming gases. The trend toward big vehicles is being driven by rising incomes for China's elite as well as government price controls on gasoline and diesel fuel that are keeping fuel prices below world levels as a way to limit broader inflation in the economy. 
 The chairman of Daimler, Dieter Zetsche, announced on Sunday that his company's Mercedes-Benz division would begin shipping GLK midsize luxury S.U.V.'s soon to China, and said that sales of Mercedes S.U.V.'s in China had doubled in the last year.
 For the first two months of 2008, sales of sport utility vehicles in China were up 38 percent and sales of luxury cars climbed 30 percent compared with the corresponding period a year ago. By contrast, overall sales of cars, S.U.V.'s and minivans rose 16 percent.
 The Chinese government has been demanding that automakers produce electric cars and gasoline-electric hybrid cars, and the manufacturers are complying. Automakers like BYD of China, Daimler of Germany and General Motors unveiled prototypes of electric cars and hybrids at the auto show, and promised limited production of some hybrids, like the Buick LaCrosse, by the end of the year.
 G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, said that China's ability to enact government decisions made it a top place to introduce technologies like hydrogen-burning cars or plug-in electric cars.
 But many auto executives are skeptical that Chinese consumers will be willing to pay considerably more for cars with hybrid engines and other alternative propulsion technologies while hybrids still account for less than one percent of the far more affluent American market. So unless the government heavily subsidizes vehicles with new technologies, their sales may be limited along with their effect on oil imports and emissions of global warming gases.
 ''Hybrids are only going to be a small, rarefied section of the automotive population,'' said John Parker, executive vice president of Ford Motor for Asia, the Pacific and Africa.
 Ford announced instead a series of less glamorous improvements in fuel-injection technology and transmission design that are intended to improve the gas mileage of many existing models. 
 S.U.V.'s in China tend to be smaller than those in America and frequently use car-based designs, which are lighter and require less gasoline than truck-based designs. But large S.U.V.'s are increasingly popular -- G.M. showed two Cadillac Escalade full-sized S.U.V.'s while Dongfeng, a Chinese automaker, displayed a very large, military-style vehicle that resembled a Hummer H1 but with a different grille.
 Soaring demand for automobiles, with sales rising nearly 20 percent a year, has already turned China into the world's second-largest oil consumer. China has been transformed from an oil exporter as recently as 1994 into a nation dependent on imports, mainly from the volatile Mideast and Africa, for half its oil needs.
 China is holding gasoline and diesel fuel prices below $3 a gallon, through heavy subsidies to companies like Sinopec involved in refining and distributing fuel. This has helped China restrain inflation in consumer prices, which accelerated this spring to an annual pace of more than 8 percent.
 But price controls on fuel have had the effect of stimulating sales of big vehicles, despite other government policies intended to discourage such sales. Liu Shijin, a vice minister for the powerful State Council Development and Research Center, acknowledged Thursday that the government had missed a chance to raise fuel taxes earlier in this decade and now faced a difficult decision on what to do in the face of inflation.
 ''If the fuel is priced right, consumers will use energy more carefully,'' Mr. Liu said at the conference.
 The government has already taken two critical steps to encourage fuel efficiency. One has been to impose vehicle taxes, ranging from 1 to 20 percent, based on engine size.
 The other measure has been to require vehicles to meet stringent standards for fuel-efficiency, with additional taxes of 5 to 15 percent on models that fail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DIESEL FUEL (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (53%); DIETER ZETSCHE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



586 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.35 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 1.66 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.85 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Davis School District Board of Education, Utah, $64 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Miami-Dade County, Fla., $102.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Virginia Public School Authority, $138.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive. 
 WEDNESDAY
 Brookhaven Town, N.Y., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Memphis, $98.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Scottsdale, Ariz., $120 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 THURSDAY
 Passaic County, N.J., $60 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Warren County, Ky., School District Financial Corporation, $60 million of revenue bonds. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Arizona Health Facilities Authority, $225 million of debt securities for Banner Health System. Merrill Lynch.
 Board of Education of the City of Chicago, $475 million of general obligation refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 California Health Facilities Financing Authority, $329.2 million of revenue bonds for Sutter Health. Morgan Stanley.
 California, $62 million of infrastructure and economic lease refunding revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 California Statewide Communities Development Authority, $87.8 million of revenue bonds for Sutter Health. Morgan Stanley.
 Chattanooga, Tenn., Electric Power Board, $222 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 City of Cleveland, $66 million of subordinated lien income tax bonds. Wachovia Bank.
 City of Kalamazoo. Mich., Hospital Finance Authority, $92.2 million of hospital revenue refunding bonds for Bronson Methodist Hospital. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Dormitory Authority of the State of New York, $264 million of obligated group revenue bonds for Orange Regional Medical Center. Merrill Lynch.
 Honolulu, $117.8 million of wastewater system bonds. UBS Securities.
 Kendall, Kane and Will Counties, Oswego, Ill., $80 million of debt securities. Raymond James.
 Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, $56 million of sales tax bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 New Jersey Educational Facilities Authority, $291 million of fixed rate refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $543.7 million of debt securities. UBS Securities.
 New Jersey Health Care Facility Finance Authority, $180 million of revenue bonds for AHS Hospital Corporation. Goldman Sachs.
 New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, $279.7 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Pennsylvania Turnpike, $160 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Puerto Rico, $725 million of general obligation bonds. UBS Securities.
 Putnam County, Fla., Development Authority, $125.3 million of pollution control revenue refunding bonds for Seminole Electric Cooperative. Goldman Sachs.
 State of California Department of Water Resources, Central Valley, $633.4 million of water system revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 State of Ohio, $140 million of general obligation highway capital improvement bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 University of Washington, $92 million of general obligation revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Wisconsin Public Power, $231.7 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); WATER QUALITY (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (62%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); WELLS FARGO & CO (55%); BANNER HEALTH SYSTEM (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); SEMINOLE ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); WFC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



587 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Blind Governor Adjusts, and So Does Albany

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
It is a phone number that just a handful of the governor's senior aides know.
 At the end of each day they call in and record briefings, laying out what he needs to know about the following day. 
 They recite his schedule, read talking points and explain the intricacies of issues likely to come up. They read memos from staff members and relate biographical details about the people he is likely to meet.
 Lots of governors rely on thick briefing books and helpful e-mail notes from their staffs. New York's governor, David A. Paterson, who is legally blind, has his ears and what his aides call his Batphone.
 Usually at night, in the Executive Mansion or at his family's home in Harlem, the governor listens to the recordings on the designated phone line. They run up to five minutes each and can pile up quickly, taking hours to absorb. 
 ''Last night I had 43 messages, all of them five minutes in length,'' Mr. Paterson said in an interview. ''That would be 215 minutes worth of material -- over three hours.'' 
 He stayed up that night from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. listening to the recordings, which covered everything from his prepared remarks for a press conference on energy to articles on economic growth in The Economist. But that was only enough time to get through half of them. 
 To the general public, the transition to a governor who is legally blind has been almost imperceptible because Mr. Paterson, 53, acts in many ways like a person with 20-20 vision.
 He does not walk with a cane or read Braille. He threw out the first pitch at a Mets game at Shea Stadium last week. And when he is in the Capitol's familiar stone and marble corridors, where he has worked for two decades, he walks at a brisk pace, slowing down only when an aide alerts him to someone approaching. 
 But behind the scenes, Albany is a different place since Mr. Paterson was sworn in last month. With a blind man in charge -- the governor can see nothing out of his left eye and only color and large objects out of his right -- everything from speech preparation to the instructions for the staff at the governor's mansion has been custom-fitted to Mr. Paterson's needs.
 ''Now that he's governor, it's a whole new ball game,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright of Harlem, who has known Mr. Paterson since they were boys.
 Since he cannot read from a prompter, the governor tries to commit his speeches to memory, by listening several times to an aide's recording of the speech. Delivering an address just from memory can be nerve-racking.
 ''It's like a high wire,'' he said. ''You trip, there's no net.''
 He travels with a phalanx of assistants, typically a half-dozen, including aides and bodyguards, who act as a buffer zone around him in large public settings, from hotel ballrooms to school classrooms. The bodyguards gently steer him, often with a hand on his back or arm, toward an exit or into a waiting vehicle.
 At news conferences in the Capitol's ceremonial Red Room, it is not the governor but his press secretary, standing just to the side of the lectern, who calls on reporters, reminding them to state their names and affiliations before asking a question.
 Glad-handing a crowd poses a challenge for Mr. Paterson because he cannot fully make out people as they approach him. So when his aides spot someone they recognize coming toward him, they tell him who it is. He instructs the aides not to whisper, but to speak in their normal tone of voice, because he wants the exchanges to appear as ordinary as possible.
 Mr. Paterson, a Harlem Democrat who has been blind since infancy, has been making adjustments to his surroundings throughout his life. But, with the added demands of the job of governor and the relentlessness of his new schedule, staying on top of his work now takes a lot more time. He said much of his day can feel like a big game of catch-up. ''I'm always trying to get back that time that I'm losing,'' he said.
 Given the volume of material he must take in, he tries to find ways to do things faster. He listens to very long articles or books on a special tape recorder for the blind that plays at speeds so fast, it is difficult for others to comprehend. ''You get used to listening to that Alvin and the Chipmunks voice,'' he said.
 At the Executive Mansion, staff members have been trying to keep up with the needs of their new boss. They were instructed shortly after he moved in last month to watch the level of his drink during receptions and offer him a refill if it looked too low. He was still learning the layout of the house and could not find the bar easily.
 Mr. Paterson has told the staff not to move any of the furniture in the 40-plus-room home on his account, and has said that he will learn where everything is. 
 He is used to adapting, in big and small ways. When he wants more salt on his food, he takes the shaker and sprinkles its contents into his hand first so he can feel whether he actually has the salt, and not the pepper, which is less chunky to the touch. When he jogs through his former neighborhood in Guilderland, near Albany, he runs the same route each time. He purposely avoids Route 146 because of the gullies that run along the side of the road.
 ''The secret is how to adjust,'' he said. ''I ask myself how am I going to fit into this world, and how am I going to do it without killing myself.'' 
 As a baby, he suffered from a condition known as optic atrophy, which damages the optic nerve. His parents decided not to send him to school in New York City, where teachers could not promise that he would be able to interact with students who were not blind. So they sent him to school on Long Island, where he received special attention but also learned with students who were not disabled.
 The minimal sight in his right eye -- in which his vision is 20/400 -- affords him a limited ability to read. If he holds a book very close to his eye, he can make out the words. And he said he will occasionally write himself reminder notes. But reading is so straining that it tires him after only a few minutes.
 His reliance on his hearing has helped him sharpen a talent useful in politics: an ability to focus on people in a way that makes them feel that they were truly heard. His attentiveness to people's voices has other political benefits, too.
 ''He can pick up a phony faster than somebody who has sight,'' said Assemblyman Wright.
 He also uses humor to poke fun at his disability, offering anecdotes about how he once showed up at a press conference wearing two different-colored shoes, or how as a young man he would occasionally miscount the number of subway stops on his way home and get off at 145th Street instead of 135th Street. ''Back in the '80s, you didn't want to go there at night,'' he said, laughing. 
 Although Mr. Paterson often says he does not want people to go out of their way for him, he says society should recognize that he and other blind people cannot do everything on their own.
 As one of his first acts as governor, he added instructions to his official state Web site on how to enlarge the type on the screen.
 ''It's just being more sensitive to people who feel that government and institutions ignore them,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson being assisted through security barricades. To the public, his blindness is often barely noticeable.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Leaving his office, Gov. David A. Paterson is guided by his press secretary, Errol Cockfield.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); BLINDNESS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



588 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ECUADOR'S LEADER MOVES
 To Expel U.S. Air Base
 President Rafael Correa of Ecuador is purging the armed forces of top commanders and pressing ahead with plans to cast out American military personnel from an air base in Manta, saying that Ecuador's intelligence systems are ''totally infiltrated and subjugated to the C.I.A.'' He accused senior military officials of sharing intelligence with Colombia, the Bush administration's top ally in Latin America. PAGE A6
 PROTESTS IN CHINA SPREAD
 Protesters in China demonstrated against a French supermarket chain and CNN over perceived bias for Tibet. In recent days, the government has called on citizens to temper their fury at the West, but it has not acted to halt public demonstrations, which have been stoked by newspaper editorials, Internet postings and text messages sent to millions of cellphones. PAGE A6 
 CHALLENGE TO PAKISTAN LEADER
 Pakistan's new government plans to call for judges fired by President Pervez Musharraf when he imposed emergency rule in November to be restored to power, a move that would be its first major legislative challenge to Mr. Musharraf. The government also hopes to strip Mr. Musharraf of many powers, reducing him to little more than a constitutional figurehead, local media reports said. PAGE A13
 TEA? NO THANKS. TOO TAME.
 The rolling hills of China's southern Yunnan Province are the birthplace of tea, anthropologists say, and are home today to plantations that turn out thousands of tons of the stuff yearly, which local residents are happy to ship out. Drink it themselves? No, thanks. Tea isn't for buying. It grows in the backyard. PAGE A8 
 Rice Upbeat on Iraq Progress A12 
 Fighting in Somalia Kills Scores A10 
 NATIONAL
 LOBBYISTS AMONG LEADERS 
 Of Fund-Raisers for McCain
 Senator John McCain has staked his campaign for the presidency in large part on his reputation as a reformer intent on curbing the influence of money in politics. But an examination of a list of 106 major fund-raisers found that about a sixth of his money collectors are lobbyists, a group outnumbered on the list only by those working in the financial services industry. PAGE A17
 A CAMPAIGN'S FINANCIAL UPGRADE
 Mr. McCain signaled his new fund-raising strength when he reported that his campaign ended March with $11.6 million in its bank account after having raised $15 million that month. He remains far behind Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton in overall fund-raising, but his financial picture is changing from when he was a scrappy and poorly-financed underdog for the nomination. PAGE A17
 NO NAME, BUT NO ONE FORGOT
 The forensic anthropologist, the coroner and the state police detectives trying to learn the identity of the man whose skeletal remains had been found in Kentucky were without one important bit of information: 1,250 miles away, in the southern Texas town of Freer, a distraught mother had reported her 34-year-old son missing. This Land, Dan Barry. PAGE A14
 BANKS SEEK CASH INFUSIONS
 At least two banks, Bank of America and National City Corporation, are said to be looking for ways to raise fresh capital. National City plans to raise at least $6 billion from a sale of common shares to a consortium. Bank of America has been in talks with Chinese regulators and China Construction Bank officials to sell a part of its 9 percent stake in that nation's second-largest bank. PAGE A15
 NEW YORK REPORT
 A PAPAL KINDRED SPIRIT
 For Animal Compassion
 Jan Fredericks of Wayne, N.J., chairwoman of the fledgling American branch of Catholic Concern for Animals, believes that in Pope Benedict XVI she has found a kindred spirit. His kindness toward the strays of Rome is the stuff of Vatican legend, his house in Germany was filled with cats when he lived there before he was posted to the Vatican in 1982, and he is, without a doubt, the first pope to have had an authorized biography of him written by a cat. PAGE B4
 A TEST OF PATIENCE
 As part of the Pequeno family's pilgrimage from Texas to see Pope Benedict XVI, they arrived in New York City this weekend ready for another test of faith. What they were not ready for was the subway system. PAGE B4
 AMID THE URBAN FOREST
 Arthur Simpson's time as a professional forester in places like Montana, Oregon and Arizona perhaps did not totally prepare him for life as a professional forester in New York. For one thing, he used to think that everyone likes a tree. Now he knows better. Big City, Susan Dominus. PAGE B1
 BUSINESS
 SELLING BUSINESS ADVICE
 And a Little Love Potion
 John C. Layfield is one of the Fox Business Network's professional pontificators. But he also has his own business interest: Mamajuana Energy, a berry-flavored liquid he developed and bills as an all-natural ''sexual endurance drink'' for men. At least one doctor calls it a ''marketing hocus-pocus,'' but a lot of people are curious. PAGE C1
 ALL-IN-ONE CAMPAIGN SITE
 Time's online political roundup known at The Page has managed to break through the clutter of political news, with campaign strategists, pollsters and journalists who drive -- or are driven by -- the political agenda among the million-plus viewers. It may be the mainstream media's closest thing to the Drudge Report. PAGE C4
 A WEB SHIFT FOR ADVERTISERS
 The threat of a recession hasn't slowed the migration of advertising dollars to the Internet, but it might be changing where those dollars are being spent as marketers increasingly look to ad networks, which sell display advertising across groups of Web sites. That could mean a lower share for portals like AOL and Yahoo. PAGE C1
 CHINA'S BIG-AUTO APPETITE
 The Chinese government is pushing automakers to improve energy efficiency, but the tastes of Chinese consumers are increasingly turning toward large sport utility vehicles and full-size luxury cars. Sales of both in January and February were up at least 30 percent over the same period last year. A long-term result is likely to be an even larger appetite for oil and increased emissions of global warming gases. PAGE C2
 WANTED: A FEW GOOD WOMEN, TOO
 With the Iraq war creating difficulties for recruiting, the Marine Corps is making a concerted pitch to women for the first time. In addition to traditional ads during sports games, featuring men doing manly things, there is a unisex message of patriotism, but with the same emphasis on pride. One new tagline: ''There are no female marines. Only marines.'' PAGE C1
 Wii's Stingy Audience C8
 NBC Gets Into Education C4
 The Gaffe Goes Viral C1 
 SPORTS
 WHEN BEING THE 'GREATEST' 
 Really Isn't So Hard
 Is the United States Olympic hockey team showdown with the Soviet hockey team the greatest of all time? What about the many other contenders for that honor, like a 1978 Yankees-Red Sox playoff game -- memorialized in its own book published last month? ''I was horrified,'' said a publisher of a coming book on the showdown between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants in 1958. ''There were 17,000 books of the same name on Amazon.'' PAGE D2
 DON'T BE THAT GOLFER
 Bill Pennington says there are plenty of ways to be the most annoying of your golfing buddies: moving while another player is hitting, obsessing over the arcana of the rulebook, making excuses after bad shots. But it's the cellphone, that marvel of modern technology and magnifier of obnoxiousness, that tops the list. PAGE D5
 STILL GREEN, BUT PLAYING BIG ROLES
 Brandon Dubinsky and Marc Staal of the New York Rangers felt the same queasy feeling after goals bounced into their net off them during their first-round playoff series against the New Jersey Devils. But both responded with goals of their own, and had a huge impact in the team advancing to the next round. PAGE D7
 WINNING TRIAL ON A LATE SURGE
 Deena Kastor, above, the reigning Olympic bronze medalist in the marathon, couldn't wait much longer to overtake Magdalena Lewy Boulet, who ran the first 23 miles of the Olympic marathon trials in Boston far ahead of the rest of the field. So around the 23 1/2 mile mark, Kastor passed Lewy Boulet and finished in 2 hours 29 minutes 35 seconds as nearby church bells clanged. PAGE D4
 BUILDING A LEGACY IN THE BIG EASY
 After a stint as the head coach of the New Jersey Nets that saw him fired even as his team boasted a winning record, Byron Scott is now at the helm of the surprising New Orleans Hornets. William C. Rhoden says Scott specializes in reclamation projects. ''The more twisted the wreckage, the more he thrives.'' PAGE D1 
 OBITUARIES 
 CARDINAL ALFONSO LoPEZ TRUJILLO, 72
 The Vatican's leading voice in defense of traditional family values and in opposition to abortion, contraception and gay marriage, he served as president of the Pontifical Council for the Family. He often expressed views on sexual issues that stirred contention. PAGE A19
 OZZIE CADENA, 83
 A record producer of jazz and gospel music from the 1950s to the 1970s for the Savoy and Prestige labels, and later a promoter and booster of jazz in Los Angeles, he helped arrange for dozens of important recording sessions. PAGE A19
 DR. JEROME H. GROSSMAN, 68
 A health care analyst at Harvard and leading hospital administrator, he was influential in applying engineering solutions to medical care. PAGE A19
 ARTS
 WHERE A FIRST IMPRESSION
 Can Prove Misleading
 Mike Daisey starts his monologue ''How Theater Failed America,'' at a ranting pitch, Caryn James writes in her review, an approach not likely to win an audience's instant affection. But, she adds, Mr. Daisey goes from that to such friendliness that at one point he had the entire room quietly rapt, at Joe's Pub, no less, ''where silverware clangs while waiters circle. It takes a remarkable performer to pull that off.'' PAGE E1 
 'BAD MONEY' ATTITUDE
 In his new book ''Bad Money,'' Kevin Phillips paints a gloomy economic picture, relying on support from the current debt situation, upheaval in the oil industry and what he calls America's ''calcified'' political system. And in assessing some of the book's historical comparisons, Barry Gewen writes in his review, ''It's hard not to feel that Mr. Phillips's argument has been shaped not only by his facts but also by his temperament.'' PAGE E7 
 TEENAGE TROUBLES
 Catherine Trieschmann's play ''Crooked'' works within themes of the tensions between a mother and daughter, adolescence and religion as refuge, Caryn James writes in her review. And she adds that it ''may be a small-scale play presented in the little Women's Project theater, but it is the work of a big, accomplished writer's voice. This terrifically acted production makes it a gem of a discovery.'' PAGE E7 
 A HALO IN RIGHT FIELD
 A new PBS documentary about Roberto Clemente, the Hall of Fame right fielder of the Pittsburgh Pirates, does nothing to disturb the glowing regard in which he has been held particularly since his death on a mission of mercy in 1972, Mike Hale writes in his review. But, he adds, ''this absorbing account of his life also reminds us that the picture was more complicated.'' PAGE E7 
 No Breaks in Life E1 
 Sacred Works Resound in Amory E1 
 A Triple Bill of Balanchines E6 
 RETIREMENT
 A SINKING DOLLAR ABROAD 
 Lowers Retiree Boats Overseas
 It's the dream of many, retiring outside the country in a Tuscan villa or a beachfront home in Costa Rica or wherever. But the eroding value of the dollar has led some American retirees living abroad to give up many luxuries that attracted them overseas in the first place, and those nearing retirement age and considering such a move are having second thoughts. PAGE H4
 CHOOSING CULTURE OVER QUIET
 Some retirees from suburban areas are choosing to move to cities not only for their vibrance and culture but also for their easily accessible services. A downtown setting ''is a whole lot more exciting and invigorating, and charges one's batteries a whole lot more, than being surrounded by geezers,'' as one professor put it. And if the retirees are willing to take their chances in a slightly iffy neighborhood, it can be cheaper, too. PAGE H4
 WHEN ONLY ONE QUITS WORK
 Earlier generations of married couples generally had to deal with only one retirement: his. But today's two-career couples are increasingly changing that, and if those two retirements don't come at the same time, the adjustment can be even trickier. PAGE H8
 Editorial
 MILLIONAIRES' AMENDMENT
 Politics loves money, and wealthy candidates have a big advantage when they run for public office -- they certainly don't need any extra help. Federal campaign finance law, being challenged in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, gives a much-needed break to candidates whose opponents spend a lot of their own money on their campaigns. PAGE A20
 THE ROAD TO SOMEWHERE SHADY
 The Senate has taken the unusual step of proposing that the Justice Department begin a criminal investigation of a long-running Congressional embarrassment known as the Coconut Road earmark. PAGE A20
 PROTECTING A BASIC FREEDOM
 The effort to enact a federal shield law for journalists got a much needed bipartisan boost last week from all three White House hopefuls. It is an encouraging sign that President Bush's successor will understand the need to protect vigorous reporting and the public's right to know about their government's conduct. PAGE A20
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Last week, in the midst of the excitement over the pope's visit, the Clinton, Obama and McCain campaigns found time to issue Passover greetings. Here's what they reveal about the candidates. PAGE A21
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The global surge in commodity prices is reviving a question we haven't heard much since the 1970s: Will limited supplies of natural resources pose an obstacle to future world economic growth? PAGE A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); FORENSICS (61%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); YUNNAN, CHINA (57%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) ECUADOR (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); TIBET (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



589 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: States Look to Tobacco Tax To Fill Their Budget Holes

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
To keep the state's landmark universal health coverage plan afloat, Massachusetts lawmakers are looking to tap an increasingly popular source of financing for health-related initiatives: tobacco taxes.
 If the state raises its tax by as much as $1 a pack, it will join New York -- and possibly a number of other states -- in enacting significant increases this year. The speaker of the Massachusetts House, Salvatore F. DiMasi, a Democrat, pushed the increase, to $2.51, through the chamber this month, and the State Senate president, Therese Murray, and Gov. Deval Patrick, also Democrats, have signaled support.
 The $175 million in projected revenue would be used to shore up the state's year-old mandatory health insurance plan. State officials say the plan, which is the first to require that individuals have coverage, is over budget because enrollment has been higher than expected for state-subsidized insurance policies offered to low- and middle-income workers. 
 The state subsidies were budgeted at $472 million for the first year but actually cost $625 million. Only months ago, Mr. Patrick proposed spending $869 million for the coming year, but his aides already acknowledge that will not be enough. The state recently agreed to increase its payments to insurers by 9.4 percent. More costs are being passed along to policyholders in the form of higher premiums and co-payments.
 ''Massachusetts has a huge stake in the health reform effort, and its success is important to the leadership here,'' said David E. Newman, a consultant to a coalition of health groups known as Tobacco Free Mass. ''That's part of the reason that both the speaker and the Senate president are working to tie this increase directly to that reform.'' 
 Governors and legislators in other states are making similar pushes. Bills to raise tobacco taxes have been active in 22 state legislatures in 2008, according to the Tobacco Merchants Association, a trade group. That follows a year in which 11 states enacted increases, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 Supporters emphasize that in addition to providing revenue, increases in tobacco taxes are proven to drive down smoking rates, particularly among youths who may find that they cannot afford to start. In the year after a $1-a-pack increase took effect in Iowa in March 2007, the state's cigarette sales dropped by 36 percent, according to state revenue figures.
 The tobacco industry counters that smokers already bear an unfair tax burden and that increases encourage cross-border purchases and bootlegging. Cigarette manufacturers also argue that tobacco taxes make for an unstable revenue source because of declining sales. An analysis of recent tobacco tax increases conducted by Altria, the parent company of Philip Morris USA Inc., concluded that three-fourths of them had raised less money than projected.
 That may be overlooked by lawmakers desperate to fill a budget hole. ''For some states, tobacco taxes are seen as a kind of magic bullet that are really quite different from less popular kinds of taxes,'' said Richard Cauchi, a health policy analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''Legislators are able to argue that it's a sin tax, and the voters seem more accepting if they know the funds are going to be earmarked for some kind of health initiative.''
 Over the last five years, governors and legislators have turned to tobacco taxes time and again, a trend that may accelerate as states search for revenue in an economic slowdown. Since 2002, 43 states and the District of Columbia have enacted 76 distinct tobacco tax increases, raising the average state tax to $1.13 from 61 cents, according to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. The R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company estimates that state taxes now generate $14.5 billion in revenue, while the federal excise tax of 39 cents a pack raises $7.3 billion.
 This month, the New York Legislature approved a $1.25 increase in the $1.50-a-pack cigarette tax, which will make it the highest in the nation. The increase is projected to raise $265 million for the general fund, including expanded state financing for children's health insurance. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York wants to add 50 cents to the city's tax of $1.50 a pack.
 Not all efforts to raise taxes have been successful. With tobacco companies spending heavily in opposition, ballot initiatives failed in California in 2006 and in Oregon in 2007, despite pledges that revenues would be spent on health care. Legislative proposals have already died this year in Georgia, Kentucky, Maine and Mississippi.
 In California, a universal health care plan endorsed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, a Democrat, died in the State Senate in January partly because of opposition to the $1.50-a-pack increase it included.
 ''It's a lot of credit to give someone,'' Mr. Nunez said, ''but California right now would have the most comprehensive health care plan in the nation, and the tobacco industry basically killed it.''
 On the federal level, President Bush has twice vetoed a Democratic bill to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program, which included a 61-cent increase in federal tobacco taxes. Both Democratic presidential candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, supported the increase, while Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, opposed it.
 Mrs. Clinton said in a recent interview with The New York Times that she was ''a big believer'' in raising tobacco taxes and would consider doing so to support her universal coverage plan if other revenues were not sufficient.
 This year, South Carolina may offer the most intriguing test of whether the tobacco industry's might can be overcome by directly linking a tax increase to improvements in health care. A State Senate floor debate is scheduled next month on a Republican proposal to raise the country's lowest cigarette tax -- 7 cents a pack -- by 50 cents to finance expansions in public health insurance programs. The most recent increase there came 31 years ago.
 State Senator Thomas C. Alexander, the proposal's sponsor, said it had not been easy to soften opposition in a state with a legacy of tobacco farming and a Republican-controlled Legislature. The bill would not have made it out of committee, he said, had revenues not been devoted to expanding Medicaid coverage and providing private insurance subsidies for low-income families.
 ''I think there's genuine concern for the health care needs of citizens who are uninsured, and recognition that those costs are now being shifted either to other government programs or to the private sector,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''The federal government really isn't responding to that issue, so we realize that action needs to be taken.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Massachusetts is considering raising its tobacco tax by up to $1 per pack of cigarettes to pay for health-related initiatives. Therese Murray, left, president of the State Senate, Salvatore F. DiMasi, speaker of the State House, and Gov. Deval Patrick at an event last month at M.I.T.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); TOBACCO MFG (86%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); TOBACCO FARMING (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (53%)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (58%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (50%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



590 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA, TRAILING, SHARPENS ATTACK IN PENNSYLVANIA

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE. 
Jeff Zeleny reported from Reading, Pa., and Katharine Q. Seelye from Philadelphia.

DATELINE: READING, Pa. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama sharpened his tone against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on Sunday as the six-week Pennsylvania primary contest raced to a close, with the rivals marshaling extensive resources in a battle for undecided voters and delegates that could determine whether the Democratic nominating fight carries on.
 In television commercials and in appearances before crowded rallies, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, cast his opponent in one of the most negative lights of the entire 16-month campaign, calling her a compromised Washington insider. Mrs. Clinton, of New York, responded by suggesting that Mr. Obama's message of hope had given way to old-style politics and asked Democrats to take a harder look at him.
 The fresh skirmishing unfolded across one of the most complicated battlegrounds in the race for the Democratic nomination. Both campaigns deployed thousands of paid workers, volunteers and surrogates to strategic points across the state. 
 Mr. Obama, seeking to lock up the nomination, was outspending Mrs. Clinton two-to-one on television advertising in the state, with a barrage of commercials assailing her health care plan and suggesting that she was captive to special interests. Mrs. Clinton fired back on Sunday, criticizing his health care plan and saying he was going negative to mask his poor performance in last week's debate. 
 Voters in Pennsylvania go to the polls Tuesday, the first to cast ballots since Mr. Obama won the Mississippi primary on March 11. The gap made for the longest campaign in a single state since the opening bell of the presidential contest, in Iowa on Jan. 3, and left time for the candidates to bruise each other, and themselves.
 ''There's been a lot of discussion over the last several days about how this campaign gets so negative, how we get distracted, how we exploit divisions,'' Mr. Obama told voters in Reading on Sunday afternoon. ''Look, our campaign's not perfect. There've been times where, you know, if you get elbowed enough, eventually you start elbowing back.''
 A variety of polls show Mrs. Clinton with a lead over Mr. Obama of five or six percentage points, but that is down from about 16 points only weeks ago. Strategists on both sides agreed the race seemed to be narrowing. The chief questions were whether the increasingly pitched campaign would help Mrs. Clinton stop her slide or whether Mr. Obama had regained his momentum.
 At a campaign stop in Bethlehem on Sunday, Mrs. Clinton reminded voters about last week's Democratic debate, in which Mr. Obama was repeatedly on the defensive about recent gaffes and incendiary remarks made by his former pastor. ''It's no wonder my opponent has been so negative these last few days of this campaign,'' she said, ''because I think you saw the difference between us.''
 Mr. Obama was using his fund-raising advantage to pay for a multimillion-dollar campaign that included sophisticated demographic targeting to find supporters in smaller cities across the state, particularly ones with pockets of black voters. 
 Yet his team was also relying on old-fashioned tools, including sending supporters door-to-door, renting sound trucks to drive through urban neighborhoods and having volunteers serve as ''town criers'' to pass out literature on city buses.
 In their final drives, both candidates barnstormed Pennsylvania with their eye on two different maps: one for the popular vote, the other for delegates. Mrs. Clinton desperately needs to win both to narrow the Obama campaign's edge on both fronts.
 Mr. Obama is also focused on winning delegates to maintain his lead, but he also wants to show he can draw support among the white, working-class voters who have gravitated to Mrs. Clinton.
 In an atmosphere where both sides are hedging their expectations, Clinton aides have refused to say what margin of the popular vote she needs to win to stay in the race. The contest for delegates, who are awarded proportionally based on how well the candidates perform in each Congressional district, is likely to be close, but the pressure is on Mrs. Clinton to get at least 50 percent of the delegates.
 ''The fact that Hillary is crisscrossing a lot of Congressional districts, and Bill is, too, is proof that while everyone is focused on the vote percentages statewide, there is a war for delegates,'' said Tony Podesta, who has run several statewide races in Pennsylvania and supports Mrs. Clinton, referring to former President Bill Clinton. ''She needs to find ways of closing the delegate gap; she can't go through all these contests and split the delegates 50-50.''
 The intensity of Mr. Obama's campaign and his willingness to air negative attacks in recent days suggest he harbored hope of ending the Clinton campaign here or avoiding a major loss that would keep the race alive.
 Representative Chaka Fattah of Philadelphia, who represents the most delegate-rich district in the state, in Philadelphia, and who supports Mr. Obama, said, ''At the end of day, if we can carry more delegates and not have her win in the double digits, that would be great.''
 In a new advertisement Sunday, Mr. Obama accused the Clinton campaign of employing ''11th hour smears'' by suggesting that he takes money from federal lobbyists. He said he had never accepted such money, ''not one dime.'' After ticking through a list of criticisms against Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama asked the crowd at an evening rally, ''What kind of inspirational message is that?''
 In the final days of the campaign, Mrs. Clinton concentrated on the state's working-class industrial regions, where she hoped to drive up her support among older, blue-collar voters who are concerned broadly about their economic condition and national security. These voters have proved the most elusive for Mr. Obama, which has led some to question whether he can win their support against Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee.
 Her chief message -- captured by an appearance in front of a fire house in suburban West Chester, where she gave a grim assessment of the dangers facing the country -- was that she is tough enough to be commander in chief and to take on Mr. McCain, and that Mr. Obama is not.
 She has also spent considerable time in the populous Philadelphia suburbs, trying to break through to upscale women, whose gender might lead them to support her but whose class, as measured by income and education, might tilt them toward Mr. Obama. About 40 percent of the state's Democratic voters live within the Philadelphia media market.
 Polls suggest that in the suburbs, Mrs. Clinton is still battling low favorability ratings. It was telling the other day at a forum at Haverford College when she was asked what canvassers should tell voters on her behalf. ''Oh, just knock on the door and say, 'She is really nice,' '' Mrs. Clinton said. ''Or you could say, 'She is not as bad as you think.' ''
 For his part, Mr. Obama has devoted his time to those same suburbs and reached beyond them to the exurbs, trying to appeal to well-educated, liberal, affluent voters for whom the war in Iraq is a central issue. While his most reliable base is made up of black voters, he has steered clear of Mr. Fattah's district, the heavily black area of Philadelphia in which Mr. Obama expects to win the most votes and the most delegates. Instead, he has campaigned in each corner of the state, making forays into Mrs. Clinton's base and trying to capture some of those delegates.
 On Sunday evening, he staged a rally in Scranton, where Mrs. Clinton has deep family roots, accompanied by a native son of the city, Senator Bob Casey, who may help with the state's Catholic, blue-collar voters.
 ''He's made progress,'' Mr. Casey said. ''That doesn't mean that progress is enough to win the primary here.''
 The field operations of both campaigns have added 327,000 Democrats to the voter rolls, many of them 18 to 34 years old. A subsequent poll found 62 percent of the new voters said they planned to vote for Mr. Obama.
 Analysts said that the voter-registration drive was an important dry run for Mr. Obama's field operation in Pennsylvania and that the Obama team may now have the edge in the intense ground game leading up to Tuesday's vote.
 The Obama forces are bolstered by the Service Employees International Union, which is spending nearly $1 million for a door-to-door canvassing operation. 
 ''From what I've seen in terms of organization and coordination, the Obama people have run a better campaign,'' said Larry Ceisler, a Democratic strategist not affiliated with either campaign (though he has given the maximum amount of money to both).
 Mrs. Clinton has employed more of an endorsement strategy and boasts the backing of 100 mayors in the state, including those in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Bill Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea, are each holding four or five events a day. And a ''Women for Hillary'' operation is rotating around the suburbs.
 Neil Oxman, a media consultant here, estimated that by the end of the six-week campaign, Mr. Obama will have spent more than $9 million on television and Mrs. Clinton will have spent almost $4 million. 
 Counting what they are spending on direct mail and other get-out-the-vote efforts, he estimates they will have spent $20 million by Tuesday, making this by far the most expensive presidential primary in state history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, with a dwindling lead in Pennsylvania primary polls, spoke to supporters Sunday at Liberty High School in Bethlehem, Pa. Voting is on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Bob Casey, right, a native of Scranton, Pa., campaigned there Sunday with Senator Barack Obama. Sitting next to Mr. Casey, out of view, was Caroline Kennedy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); BOB CASEY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



591 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: In Politics, The Gaffe Goes Viral

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 1990, I was covering politics in Minnesota and Paul Wellstone was down double digits in the polls in the waning weeks of the Senate race. I watched in amazement as Mr. Wellstone's campaign staff continued to fight tooth and nail for every vote, something I wrote off to a civic reflex that I didn't possess. 
 But Mr. Wellstone's campaign manager, Patrick Forciea, told me that there was more than just blind loyalty at work. 
 ''If you stay close enough, long enough, there's a good chance something will break in the media,'' he said. ''We are going to get as close as we can, wait for a lightning storm and then head out to the golf course and wave a 9-iron around.''
 The week before the election, supporters of Rudy Boschwitz, then the incumbent, sent out a letter asserting that while both candidates were Jewish, Mr. Wellstone ''has no connection with the Jewish community'' and his ''children were brought up as non-Jews.''
 Cue the lightning. Mr. Wellstone won by a slim margin.
 I thought of that election watching Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton fight on long after other people, including many in the news media, thought she was finished. The strategy seems to be to hold up Senator Barack Obama just short of the finish line -- it's not over till the fat lady votes -- and Mr. Obama, a rookie to national politics, would make a mistake and a bored, crabby national press corps would pounce.
 Based on the debate that ran on ABC last week, it just might work. And while it's tempting to blame ABC, Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos for the focus on lapel pins, ''bitter'' remarks and faint ties to the Weather Underground -- and we will blame them soon -- the news media's values haven't really changed. The nature of campaigns has. 
 Gaffes like the kind Mr. Wellstone's campaign once hoped for now enter a supercharged ecosystem of cable, bloggers and digitally enabled mainstream media outlets. A slip of the tongue -- or a clear view into a candidate's soul, depending on your politics -- can be game-changing because there are so many other people covering the game in so many ways. And nothing is more viral than a screw-up. 
 Witness the uproar after Mr. Obama's remarks about ''bitter'' voters finding succor in God, guns and great big fences. Mr. Obama was speaking at a small fund-raiser in San Francisco to a group of supporters in an event everyone assumed was off the record. 
 Well, not everybody. As it turned out, the media member who threw Mr. Obama under the bus was never really on it. Mayhill Fowler, a blogger for Off the Bus, the joint effort between the Huffington Post and Jay Rosen, a journalism professor (and Obama supporter), reported out his remarks from the fund-raiser. 
 After she reluctantly posted a remark that she knew would feed her candidate into a digital wood-chipper, rapid-fire linking was followed by umbrage-filled analytics. Thus, another cable news controversy was born.
 Think things haven't changed much? Recall Tucker Carlson's profile of another candidate, George W. Bush, in Talk magazine in 1999. In it, Mr. Bush gave a profane, intemperate interview in which he said, ''I'm not interested in process,'' and mocked Karla Faye Tucker, a convicted murderer who sought mercy from him as governor of Texas before she was executed in 1998. ''Please don't kill me,'' he whimpered in mimicking her. 
 The interview made a big splash, then produced no ripples, in part because there was no digital pickup -- no blogs, no audio clips, no YouTube. The old campaign model was akin to the high school yearbook -- the best picture and pithiest quote. 
 Now it is all MySpace all the time, with real-time annotation of every intemperate utterance and regrettable hookup. If the press corps remains addicted to the parlor game of gotcha, it's going to be grim. 
 That brings us to Wednesday's debate. The candidates seemed bewildered -- Mr. Obama more so than Mrs. Clinton -- but the moderators looked smug and self-satisfied, all decked out in safari helmets and hunting their version of big game: the gaffe. Partisans on both sides who complain about bias are missing the point. The dirty secret about covering electoral politics: the media wins only by knockout. If you can't change the game, the thinking goes, then why play at all? 
 After more than 20 debates, many of them about real, actual issues, it's hard to argue that the Democratic primary has been lacking in substance. But the long stretch on the run-up to Pennsylvania had left both Mr. Gibson and Mr. Stephanopoulos searching for traction -- and a little personal brand building -- by taking down Mr. Obama. 
 ''Senator Obama is the front-runner,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos told Howard Kurtz of The Washington Post, as if that explained everything. ''Our thinking was, electability was the No. 1 issue.'' 
 The No. 1 issue? More than Pennsylvania's and the nation's economy in a tailspin, a five-year war grinding on and a growing crisis in the world's ability to feed itself? If any two people on the stage at the ABC presidential debate at Constitution Hall last Wednesday were out-of-touch elitists, it was the people asking the questions, not the people answering them. 
 Given that the average income of the poorest fifth of Pennsylvania families decreased by $1,281, from $20,241 to $18,960, according to the Keystone Research Center, while many of their sons and daughters are serving multiple National Guard stints to fight a war that won't end, guns and butter would seem to have been on the menu. Instead, it was debunked sniper fire and the taint of radical chic.
 For many viewers, including me, it was a disgusting spectacle, a tableau that etched not the bankruptcy of politics but of the people covering it. It might have had ratings value -- 10.7 million people tuned in to ABC's broadcast, making it the highest-rated debate of the season. But the question remains: will the pursuit of misdemeanor errors in a time full of them lead to a real mistake when it comes to what actually matters? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FUNDRAISING (72%); GOLF (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



592 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Cheney to Support New York Lawmaker at Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney is scheduled to attend a fund-raising luncheon on Monday in Manhattan on behalf of United States Representative Vito J. Fossella Jr., who is running for a sixth full term. Mr. Cheney's visit puts a spotlight on a race that Democrats believe they can contest even though Mr. Fossella is an incumbent from the strongly Republican 13th Congressional District.
 The event is likely to boost financing significantly for Mr. Fossella's bid for another term as the only Republican member of Congress from New York City. His district covers Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn. 
 Democrats contend that Mr. Fossella's continued support of the war in Iraq has put him out of touch with the district. Furthermore, they say, Staten Island has been hit hard by the nation's mortgage crisis and health care has deteriorated. 
 The fund-raiser for Mr. Fossella will be at the Upper East Side home of David H. Koch, the billionaire executive vice president of Koch Industries, a company with major oil and gas holdings. 
 Democrats from Staten Island to Washington said that Mr. Cheney's support signaled that the Bush administration had to come to Mr. Fossella's aid.
 ''Republicans in New York are in free fall, and Cheney's visit to New York just proves Vito Fossella's campaign is flagging,'' said Carrie James, a spokeswoman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in Washington. ''Rather than bring home necessary resources to meet the needs of his district, Vito Fossella is embracing Dick Cheney and his Big Oil money to resurrect his failing campaign.''
 Mr. Fossella, 43, has been popular in his moderate-to-conservative district since winning the Congressional seat in a special election in 1997. The district voted for George W. Bush for president in 2004 and, before that, overwhelmingly for Rudolph W. Giuliani for mayor. But Democrats say the district's demographics have shifted slightly to become more moderate and less Republican. 
 Still, Mr. Fossella said that he found much support for his political positions among district residents. ''I think that the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn have focused on my record of being an independent fighter, whether fighting for more homeland security funding for New York, or lowering taxes and finding positive ways for our economy to grow,'' he said during the weekend.
 Two years ago, Mr. Fossella saw his Democratic rival, Steve Harrison, a Brooklyn lawyer, fare better than any previous opponent, garnering about 43 percent of the vote against the congressman in the general election. But this year, the Democrats are in an internal squabble. 
 Mr. Harrison is running again, insisting that he can prevail in a second bid, but it seems likely he will first have to win a primary. City Councilman Domenic Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn is raising money as he considers challenging Mr. Fossella.
 The race in the 13th Congressional District is mirroring presidential politics, with the two Democratic hopefuls spending as much time attacking each other as their Republican rival. 
 ''Without a doubt, I'm better prepared to do the job than Steve Harrison,'' Mr. Recchia said. ''I have the knowledge and I have the experience.'' 
 Similarly, Mr. Harrison insisted that Mr. Recchia was poorly positioned to run against Mr. Fossella. ''He's term-limited, and that speaks loads about why he's running,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''He has taken positions on resolutions in the City Council that indicate that he's not in favor of getting out of Iraq. He is someone who doesn't subscribe to Democratic values. He's almost Republican in nature.''
 Mr. Recchia has raised $350,000 for the race, and has $325,000 in cash on hand. Mr. Fossella has about $250,000 in cash on hand after spending about $600,000 of the $850,000 he raised. Mr. Harrison has raised $150,000 so far, and has $91,000 on hand. 
 Both Mr. Recchia and Mr. Harrison offer similar critiques of Congressman Fossella. 
 ''The biggest issue is the war, and then the economy,'' Mr. Recchia said. ''And Vito Fossella has been on the wrong side of those issues. The Bush-Fossella tax cuts aren't working, and the people on Staten Island and Brooklyn want someone who will stand up for them.''
 Similarly, Mr. Harrison said Mr. Fossella was not in tune with his district's concerns. ''The other important issue that looms large is the economy's problems and how we're going to address them, not to mention energy and the environment,'' he said. ''I don't see Vito Fossella getting out ahead on those things.''
 For his part, Mr. Fossella said he was proud to have the vice president supporting him. ''I'm pleased not only that he has stepped up, but that so many others have supported my re-election,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Congressman Vito J. Fossella Jr.'s bid is being challenged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%)

COMPANY: KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (93%); DICK CHENEY (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



593 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Web Metrics and Grains of Salt

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Perhaps Internet metrics should come with a warning label: ''handle with care.''
 Stock in the measurement firm comScore slid in after-hours trading on Thursday after Google reported surprisingly strong first quarter earnings. Why the decline? Analysts were primed for a poor performance from Google after three straight months of comScore reports showing a slowdown in paid clicks on the Web giant's sites. 
 Google derives income when users click on advertisements, and the apparent deceleration -- comScore projected only 2 percent growth in paid clicks in the United States, compared with 30 percent growth in the previous quarter -- led many analysts to cut their estimates in anticipation of Google's earnings news. It also prompted speculation that the economic downturn was affecting the online advertising market.
 But on Thursday Google reported a 20 percent rise in paid clicks from comparable quarter in 2007. Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, pointedly said on the earnings call that ''paid click growth was much higher than has been speculated by third parties.'' 
 The swipe at measurement firms like comScore did not go unnoticed. Technology and media leaders have long held reservations about the data provided by the companies who serve as Internet traffic reporters. Using panels of self-selected individuals and samples of users who share access to their online activity, the companies measure page views, spending habits and advertisement engagement. Their numbers sometimes vary significantly from the internal measurements of Web sites.
 Last week, though, comScore's estimates were shown to be directionally correct. The growth in Google's paid clicks is slowing, although perhaps not to the extent that comScore had projected. Google's 20 percent growth figure included international traffic, leading analysts to presume that a rapid rise in paid clicks in other countries offset slower growth in the United States, where comScore's measurements were made. 
 But analysts cannot know for sure because of a ''dearth of public information'' available about Google's revenue drivers, said Andrew Lipsman, an analyst for comScore, in a blog post on the company's Web site about the discrepancies. 
 Magid M. Abraham, the chief executive of comScore, said the company shared its paid click estimates only with analysts who were aware of the limitations of the data. When it enters the bloodstream of Wall Street, however, the qualifications are often lost. ''At the end of the day, our data is really only one element for predicting profit and loss,'' Mr. Abraham said, ''but people become overly focused on it.''
 Mr. Abraham said comScore intends to accelerate its introduction of international paid click measurement. 
 ComScore's stock closed down 40 cents, or 1.70 percent, at $23.18 a share on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); WEB SITES (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008



594 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2008 CAMPAIGN: BY THE NUMBERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania's Political Landscape

BYLINE: By FARHANA HOSSAIN

 BODY:
With its large working-class, Catholic and elderly populations, Pennsylvania is full of voters who have been among Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's best
 demographic groups. Senator Barack Obama has narrowed the gap in recent polls, mostly because of his appeal among voters in the populous 
 southeastern part of the state. A Franklin & Marshall College poll, released last week, shows the gap between the eastern and western parts of the state.
 Sources: The campaigns (travel); Campaign Media Analysis Group (ads); Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 Where the Candidates Have Traveled
 (Includes stops planned for Monday)
 Mrs. Clinton Bill Clinton
 Mr. Obama Michelle Obama
 Northwest Pennsylvania
 Mrs. Clinton leads 59
 percent to 28 percent here in
 the Franklin & Marshall poll.
 Western Pennsylvania, as a
 whole, is older and more
 conservative than the
 eastern part of the state.
 Only Erie County has voted
 consistently Democratic in
 recent elections.
 Southwest Pennsylvania
 Mrs. Clinton leads here 59
 percent to 18 percent. Mr. Obama
 may do well in Pittsburgh, but the
 surrounding counties have many
 Catholics and blue-collar
 Reagan Democrats, both groups
 that have favored Mrs. Clinton.
 Bill Clinton won many of the
 counties here in 1992 and 1996,
 but Senator John Kerry did not
 win as many in 2004.
 Central Region
 The largely rural center of the state
 is also the most conservative.
 Median income in the region
 is the lowest in the state 
 while the unemployment rate
 is very high in many areas.
 Harrisburg-Lancaster Area
 This region is among the fastest growing in the state
 and has voted solidly
 Republican in recent elections
 (Mrs. Clinton has done better
 so far in traditionally Republican
 counties). But the growth in
 population has led to an
 increase in the number of
 Democrats, especially near
 Harrisburg, where a sizeable
 share of the population is black.
 Philadelphia and Its Suburbs
 Mr. Obama holds double-digit leads
 in the region. He is expected to carry
 Philadelphia, where nearly half of the
 population is black. But the
 surrounding suburbs, with their
 pockets of educated, affluent
 whites alongside struggling
 communities of blue-collar whites,
 are expected to be a battleground.
 Northeast Pennsylvania
 The area is largely favorable to Mrs.
 Clinton, whose father was from
 Scranton. She is helped by the
 abundant number of working-class
 whites, as well as the growing
 number of Hispanics, in the area.
 Students from many colleges in the
 Lehigh Valley may help Mr. Obama.
 He also has the support of Senator
 Bob Casey, whose family is also
 based in Scranton. Many counties in
 this swing region have voted
 progressively more Democratic in
 recent elections.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Central Region: The largely rural center of the state is also the most conservative.
Median income in the region is the lowest in the state
while the unemployment rate is very high in many areas. Maps details the following: MARGIN OF VICTORY, 2004
2005 MEDIAN INCOME
and UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, FEB. 2008.
Where the Candidates Have Traveled (Includes stops planned for Monday) This map details Number of pledged delegates in each Congressional district.
POPULATION CHANGE SINCE 2000
and PERCENTAGE WHO ARE BLACK, 2006.(Sources: The campaigns (travel)
Campaign Media Analysis Group (ads)
Census Bureau
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); RELIGION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); CENSUS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); BOB CASEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (88%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



595 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2008 CAMPAIGN: THE FIGHT FOR PENNSYLVANIA; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: On the Airwaves

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Level (1,437 showings)
 Mrs. Clinton promises to ''level
 the playing field against
 special interests'' and invest in 
 the middle class.
 Children (878 showings)
 Revisits the ''3 a.m.'' theme.
 Suggests Mrs. Clinton is
 prepared to deal with the
 economic crisis.
 Falling (791 showings)
 Mrs. Clinton calls the Bush
 economy a ''trapdoor'' and
 promises to stand up for families
 at risk of falling through.
 Energy (1,843 showings)
 Mr. Obama says he ''won't let''
 oil companies and Washington
 lobbyists ''block change''
 toward energy independence.
 For Decades (1,689 showings)
 Blaming lobbyists for lack of
 change in the country, Mr.
 Obama says ''they won't run''
 his White House.
 Carry (1,526 showings)
 Emphasizes bipartisanship.
 Illinois state legislators speak
 of Mr. Obama's ''ability to
 understand both sides.''
 CLINTON OBAMA
 AMOUNT
 SPENT
 $3.6
 million
 $8.6
 million
 TOTAL SHOWINGS
 CLINTON: MOST SHOWN ADS
 BY TV MARKET
 Erie
 Harrisburg
 Johnstown
 Philadelphia
 Pittsburgh
 Wilkes-Barre
 4,955 11,788
 OBAMA: MOST SHOWN ADS
 On the Airwaves
 THE NEW YORK TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Television advertising in Pennsylvania through April 17. CHART: TOTAL SHOWINGS BY TV MARKET Chart details bar graph for the following: Erie
Harrisburg
Johnstown
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
and Wilkes-Barre.
 A second chart details CLINTON: MOST SHOWN ADS. with examples of each. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (90%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%); ERIE, PA, USA (65%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



596 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2008

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: There'll Be 1 Inches Less of The Post

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Starting on Tuesday, The New York Post will change the height of each page to 12 inches, down from 13&#189; inches.

 BODY:
Updated, April 22 | Readers of The New York Post may have noticed something different in the tabloid's pages on Monday: white space. The margins at the top and bottom of each page were significantly larger than usual, and the bottom of each inside page -- even the ones with advertisements -- was a thin strip advertisement. The change was not a printing error, but rather a dry run, if you will, for a change in the paper's look. Starting on Tuesday, The New York Post will be 12 inches high, down from 13\xC2 inches now. 
"Just like The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, The New York Post will be making the size of the daily paper slightly smaller effective tomorrow," Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman for The Post, said in a statement on Monday. 
[An update: Most copies of The Post on Tuesday still appeared to be printed using the old page size, once again with white space on the top and bottom. Asked when the change would occur, Ms. Halpin said on Tuesday, "It began to be phased in today."]
In October 2005, The Journal announced that, starting in January 2007, the newspaper's pages would shrink to about 12 inches wide from about 15 inches wide -- roughly the same width as The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times and USA Today, other daily newspapers that have also reduced their widths in recent years as costs have soared industrywide in newsprint and paper and newspapers, in general, have faced tough economic challenges. 
The Times followed suit a short time later. In July 2006, The Times said it would move from a traditional "broadsheet" size of 54 inches to the "evolving industry-standard 48-inch web width." 
The web width refers to the width of a newsprint roll as it is fed into the press; for a broadsheet, the original sheet is cut into two larger sheets; for a tabloid, the original sheet is into four smaller sheets. 
The effect of The Times's change, which occurred in August 2007, was to reduce the width of each page by an inch and a half, to about 12 inches -- the same as The Journal -- from 13\xC2 inches. 
The Journal's page height is still slightly greater than The Times's.
The Post and The Journal are now under the same ownership -- Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., which may be looking to save money at The Post, which is known to lose money, by consolidating certain operations, like printing and distribution.
"It sounds as if this change would more easily allow printing both newspapers on the same businesses," said Rick Edmonds, who analyzes the newspaper industry for the Poynter Institute, a media research and training organization in St. Petersburg, Fla.
In Britain, where most broadsheet newspapers have moved to a smaller format -- either tabloid or "berliner," a format that opens from left to right like a tabloid but has a larger page size -- there was some concern that smaller pages would lead to a diminution of editorial quality or distinctiveness, but those fears have not been realized.
"The tabloid format itself suggests blaring headlines and lower editorial ambitions," Mr. Edmonds said, but some newspapers -- like The Rocky Mountain News and Newsday -- use a tabloid format while their coverage is more restrained and serious than that of most tabloids.

        
A Rousing Celebration for a Curmudgeonly Columnist
        
Liz Smith Bids City's Tabloids Goodbye
        
Dead-Tree Editions Sell Out, So Presses Roll Again
        
A Times Reporter's Stormy Friendship With Georgia O'Keeffe
        
McCarthyism and Student Journalism at City College

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NEWSPRINT (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (70%) journalism; New York Post; Newspapers; The Times; Business; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (80%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



597 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Gas Reaches a Record $3.50, And Some Expect $4 by Summer

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Gasoline prices surpassed $3.50 a gallon nationwide for the first time and oil jumped to a record on Monday as the long rise of energy prices showed little evidence of giving way to recession fears.
 The national average price for regular gasoline is up 22 percent from a year earlier, according to AAA, the automobile club. Some analysts expect it to approach $4 a gallon this summer, when demand is at a peak. Diesel fuel prices reached a record $4.20 a gallon on Monday, on average, compared with $2.93 a gallon a year earlier.
 In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for next-month delivery settled Monday at $117.48 a barrel, up 79 cents, a new high. Oil prices have more than quadrupled in the last five years, and some analysts say that oil will reach $125 a barrel this year. 
 The latest rise in energy prices was prompted by reports that a Nigerian rebel group had blown up pipelines in the Niger Delta. An earlier attack on a pipeline, last week, forced Royal Dutch Shell to curtail exports by 169,000 barrels a day. 
 Because there is little spare capacity worldwide and supplies are tight, slight disruptions in oil production anywhere can push up prices. 
 Further rattling the market, a Japanese oil tanker was damaged Monday when it was attacked by a small boat off the coast of Yemen, the tanker's owner, Nippon Yusen, said. The tanker, the Takayama, was hit by a projectile. No details were provided. 
 Adding to worries about supplies, Mexico's state-owned oil company indicated that its output had dropped 7.8 percent, to 2.91 million barrels a day, in the first three months of the year from the comparable period of 2007. 
 Pemex, as the company is widely known, has experienced a sharp decline at its largest oil field, Cantarell, where output dropped 8.5 percent in that period. 
 Speaking at a major meeting of energy officials in Rome on Monday, Japan's economy minister, Akira Amari, expressed alarm at the rising energy costs.
 But despite urgent pleas, members of the OPEC cartel reiterated their position that they saw no reason to increase production quotas.
 ''Oil prices are at an extraordinary high level today,'' Mr. Amari said. ''I have been repeatedly stating my strong sense of crisis that the global economy would suffer a setback if these conditions are left as they are.''
 Investors have been buying commodities like oil to hedge against inflationary pressures. The falling value of the American currency has exacerbated the rise in oil prices, which are denominated in dollars. A weak dollar reduces the value of oil exports for producers, leading them to seek higher prices to make up for the loss. The dollar is near a low against the euro, settling in New York late Monday at 1.5916.
 ''If the dollar continues its slide, I can see prices go up,'' Iran's oil minister, Gholam Hossein Nozari, told reporters in Rome. 
 Oil consumption is expected to grow 1.5 percent this year. But given signs of slowing economic growth worldwide, the International Energy Agency, an advisory group to industrial nations, recently reduced its forecast for demand by 300,000 barrels a day. It said that all the growth in oil demand should come from developing nations, the engine behind rising energy prices in the last six years. Oil consumption in industrial nations is expected to drop slightly this year.
 In the United States, the combination of steadily rising gasoline prices and a slowing economy has cut into gasoline consumption. As a result, demand for gasoline is headed for its first annual drop in 17 years, according to forecasts by the Energy Information Administration, an Energy Department agency.
 This year, American drivers are expected to use an average of 9.26 million barrels of gasoline a day, compared with 9.29 million barrels a day in 2007. While so modest a decline, about 0.3 percent, does not sound like much, gasoline demand typically increases by 1 to 2 percent a year. 
 Overall oil consumption in this country is projected at 20.61 million barrels a day this year, down from 20.70 million barrels in 2007.
 ''What we're seeing is a combination of a recession and some conservation efforts,'' said Mark Cooper, research director of the Consumer Federation of America. 
 In 2007, spending on petroleum products, including gasoline, accounted for 5.3 percent of the nation's total economic output. That was well short of the peak reached in 1980, of 8.5 percent, but considerably higher than the share in 1998, a period of record low prices, when petroleum spending represented only 2.7 percent of economic output.
 Little relief is expected from the oil producers. In fact, the meeting of producing and consuming nations in Rome showed that a perception gap about the oil market seems to be widening.
 Industrial nations fear that the run-up in prices may derail the global economy. But OPEC members, which account for about 40 percent of the world's oil exports, will not pump more oil, fearing that any hasty move on its part would lead to plummeting prices.
 Nobuo Tanaka, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said: ''When I spoke from the podium I asked the ministers, 'Do you agree with me that current prices are too high?' '' He said the response was ''totally quiet.''
 Outside the meeting, some ministers of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries were not shy about expressing their unwillingness to step up production.
 ''OPEC has put the maximum supply on the market,'' Venezuela's oil minister, Rafael Ramirez, was quoted by Reuters as saying. ''This is not a problem of supply, it's a problem that is very connected to the financial problems in the U.S. economy.'' He alluded to economic problems that have helped drive down the dollar.
 Mohammad-Ali Zainy, a senior energy economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, said OPEC should increase its output to allow global oil inventories to build up and provide a safety cushion. 
 At the beginning of the year, global stocks could meet daily oil demand for 67 days, five days less than at the start of 2007. In the late 1990s, global stocks covered 90 days' worth of demand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three views of what gasoline cost on Monday in San Francisco, where prices routinely run well above the national average. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INFLATION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DIESEL FUEL (74%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (73%); CARTELS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); EURO (60%); BULK SHIPPING (58%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (69%); NIPPON YUSEN KK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (69%); RDSA (AMS) (69%); RDS.B (NYSE) (69%); RDS.A (NYSE) (69%); 9101 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS483211 INLAND WATER FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (54%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (54%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); YEMEN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NIGER (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



598 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: On a New Jersey Block, a Second Bright Student Is Mourned

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and NATE SCHWEBER

DATELINE: IRVINGTON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Dolores Timmons watched as the woman who lived across the street paced the sidewalk for a good half hour under a scorching August heat, back and forth across the length of her front yard as if encased by invisible walls. They lived in similar brick and wood-frame homes here on a busy working-class block of 18th Avenue off the Garden State Parkway, but they had never spoken.
 Another neighbor told Mrs. Timmons that the woman, Shalga Hightower, was mourning her 20-year-old daughter, one of three college students who had been shot dead in a Newark schoolyard a few days earlier. Mrs. Timmons walked across the street to introduce herself and offer condolences, bringing her grandson, Gary Farrar Jr., who was just a year older and also in college, studying graphic design at Rutgers. 
 Soon the two women struck up a neighborly acquaintanceship, making small talk when they ran into each other or waving from their stoops. 
 Mrs. Timmons, 64, had lived on the block for 24 years, and she occupied the first floor of her two-family house; upstairs were Gary and his parents, Gary Sr., a landscaper, and Betty Farrar, a nurse. Ms. Hightower, 47, a home-health aide supervisor, moved there last June with her three children; Iofemi, the oldest, was about to enter Delaware State University when she was killed.
 As the months passed, Mrs. Timmons noticed how Ms. Hightower would often wear a memorial T-shirt stamped with her daughter's picture.
 ''When Iofemi died, I remember thinking how fortunate I was that my grandson was in college, away from these crazy streets out here,'' Mrs. Timmons said on Monday. ''But then he graduated and came back home and now he's dead, too.''
 For the families who live on this hilly stretch of 18th Avenue between Grove Street and Eastern Parkway, where Irvington juts into Newark, Ms. Hightower's killing last summer -- six suspects have been arrested -- brought the violence that surrounds them frighteningly close. Losing Mr. Farrar barely nine months later -- just four months after he had graduated from Rutgers and returned home -- was something beyond.
 Now, Ms. Hightower had the grim task of returning the condolence call. Sunday afternoon, she walked across the busy street, where rumbling city buses create a steady soundtrack, to pay her respects to Mrs. Timmons, who last summer was the first neighbor to approach her, offering money she had collected from others on the block.
 ''I just wanted to console her, though at that time nothing helps -- no hugs, no words,'' Ms. Hightower said on Monday. ''Because all you want is your baby back.''
 Mayor Wayne Smith of Irvington said on Monday that officials were looking into witness complaints that it took 30 to 45 minutes for an ambulance to arrive at Mr. Farrar's house after his friend Bashir Pearson called 911. Mr. Pearson said in an interview that he and Mr. Farrar were just outside the front door at 3 a.m. Sunday when a gray sport utility vehicle pulled up and its driver fired, striking Mr. Farrar in the neck, then drove east on 18th and south on Grove.
 The authorities said that the same gunman might be responsible for two other shootings that morning: one just before Mr. Farrar's, at the corner of Eastern Parkway and 18th, and another shortly after, six blocks down Grove Street near Berkeley Terrace, where a police sergeant was struck in the hip. Shaquan Johnson, 27, was arrested on Sunday and charged with shooting the sergeant. Investigators with the Essex County prosecutor's office said it was unclear whether Mr. Johnson would be charged with the other shootings.
 Law enforcement officials said they were unsure of a motive, but Mayor Smith said that the suspect was in possession of the drug Ecstasy when he was arrested and ''was probably high.''
 As to the response time, Mayor Smith said that, given the multiple shootings so close to each other in space and time, emergency workers responding to the sergeant's shooting may have thought all the calls were related to that. ''There was a lot of confusion,'' he said.
 Mr. Farrar lay bleeding on the sidewalk for 40 minutes, Mr. Pearson said. The victim ended up dying in his mother's arms before an ambulance arrived, Mrs. Timmons said.
 The block of 18th Avenue where the Farrars and Hightowers live is a solid working-class stretch amid poverty. Its single- and two-family detached houses sell for about $400,000, and are occupied by a mix of owners and renters, said Melody Thomas, president of the neighborhood's preservation society. Census data for the surrounding neighborhood shows a median household income of $28,000 a year, closer to Newark's $27,000 than Irvington's $37,000.
 Some residents work as parking garage attendants, gas-meter readers and sales clerks. Some have retired from municipal jobs. Some, like 25-year-old Mark Knox, are unemployed.
 ''I'm planning on moving from around here,'' Mr. Knox said Monday afternoon. ''You've got gang members on Grove Street and I don't want my young nephews coming to visit.''
 There is a gas station on one end of the block and a used car dealership on the other, next to a boarded-up house that looms like a scarred sentinel from its perch on Grove Street, at the top of the hill. The car dealership used to be open every night until 7, but the owner, Martin Arons, said he recently started closing up shop at 5 p.m. because ''I don't want to be here after dark.''
 While the block itself is somewhat serene, Mr. Arons said, in recent years ''there is more drug dealing going on and a lot of shootings, murders.''
 Mr. Farrar was an only child. The Farrars tried to make sure their son did not wander the streets alone. When he was a boy, he was allowed to play outside only within the boundaries of their front yard, his father recalled. 
 ''We made our sacrifices and just raised our son the best way that we could,'' Mr. Farrar said on Monday. 
 Iofemi Hightower worked for Continental Airlines in Newark and planned to study business at Delaware State. Mr. Farrar had a degree in graphic design from Rutgers and was a waiter in Montclair as he pursued a job in his field. They were, by all accounts, exceptions -- ''good kids who stayed out of trouble and had hopes and dreams for the future,'' as Mrs. Timmons put it.
 Mr. Farrar, she said, recently bought a navy three-button suit to wear on job interviews. Now, she said, his parents plan to bury him in it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Farrar Jr., top, recently graduated from Rutgers. Iofemi Hightower was enrolling in Delaware State University. Their families live on the same street in Irvington, N.J. Left photo, Shalga Hightower, left, Ms. Hightower's mother, and Dolores Timmons, Mr. Farrar's grandmother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Shalga Hightower walks to her home across 18th Avenue in Irvington after visiting the Farrars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); FAMILY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); ARRESTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DELAWARE STATE UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



599 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Clueless In America

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
We don't hear a great deal about education in the presidential campaign. It's much too serious a topic to compete with such fun stuff as Hillary tossing back a shot of whiskey, or Barack rolling a gutter ball.
 The nation's future may depend on how well we educate the current and future generations, but (like the renovation of the nation's infrastructure, or a serious search for better sources of energy) that can wait. At the moment, no one seems to have the will to engage any of the most serious challenges facing the U.S. 
 An American kid drops out of high school every 26 seconds. That's more than a million every year, a sign of big trouble for these largely clueless youngsters in an era in which a college education is crucial to maintaining a middle-class quality of life -- and for the country as a whole in a world that is becoming more hotly competitive every day.
 Ignorance in the United States is not just bliss, it's widespread. A recent survey of teenagers by the education advocacy group Common Core found that a quarter could not identify Adolf Hitler, a third did not know that the Bill of Rights guaranteed freedom of speech and religion, and fewer than half knew that the Civil War took place between 1850 and 1900.
 ''We have one of the highest dropout rates in the industrialized world,'' said Allan Golston, the president of U.S. programs for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In a discussion over lunch recently he described the situation as ''actually pretty scary, alarming.''
 Roughly a third of all American high school students drop out. Another third graduate but are not prepared for the next stage of life -- either productive work or some form of post-secondary education.
 When two-thirds of all teenagers old enough to graduate from high school are incapable of mastering college-level work, the nation is doing something awfully wrong.
 Mr. Golston noted that the performance of American students, when compared with their peers in other countries, tends to grow increasingly dismal as they move through the higher grades:
 ''In math and science, for example, our fourth graders are among the top students globally. By roughly eighth grade, they're in the middle of the pack. And by the 12th grade, U.S. students are scoring generally near the bottom of all industrialized countries.''
 Many students get a first-rate education in the public schools, but they represent too small a fraction of the whole. 
 Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, offered a brutal critique of the nation's high schools a few years ago, describing them as ''obsolete'' and saying, ''When I compare our high schools with what I see when I'm traveling abroad, I am terrified for our work force of tomorrow.''
 Said Mr. Gates: ''By obsolete, I don't just mean that they are broken, flawed or underfunded, though a case could be made for every one of those points. By obsolete, I mean our high schools -- even when they're working as designed -- cannot teach all our students what they need to know today.''
 The Educational Testing Service, in a report titled ''America's Perfect Storm,'' cited three powerful forces that are affecting the quality of life for millions of Americans and already shaping the nation's future. They are:
 The wide disparity in the literacy and math skills of both the school-age and adult populations. These skills, which play such a tremendous role in the lives of individuals and families, vary widely across racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups.
 The ''seismic changes'' in the U.S. economy that have resulted from globalization, technological advances, shifts in the relationship of labor and capital, and other developments.
 Sweeping demographic changes. By 2030, the U.S. population is expected to reach 360 million. That population will be older and substantially more diverse, with immigration having a big impact on both the population as a whole and the work force.
 These and so many other issues of crucial national importance require an educated populace if they are to be dealt with effectively. At the moment we are not even coming close to equipping the population with the intellectual tools that are needed.
 While we're effectively standing in place, other nations are catching up and passing us when it comes to educational achievement. You have to be pretty dopey not to see the implications of that.
 But, then, some of us are pretty dopey. In the Common Core survey, nearly 20 percent of respondents did not know who the U.S. fought in World War II. Eleven percent thought that Dwight Eisenhower was the president forced from office by the Watergate scandal. Another 11 percent thought it was Harry Truman.
 We've got work to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); MATHEMATICS (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008



600 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Libya Seeks Exemption For Its Debt To Victims

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One by one, top executives of American oil companies met privately over the last year with Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, often in his signature Bedouin tent, as they lined up contracts allowing them to tap into the country's oil reserves.
 But now, the new allies are working Capitol Hill, trying to weaken a law that threatens those deals. The Libyan government, once a pariah, and the American oil industry have hired high-profile lobbyists, buttonholed lawmakers and enlisted help from the Bush administration, all in an effort to win an exemption from a law that Congress passed in January that is intended to ensure that victims of terrorist attacks are compensated.
 The law allows victims of state-sponsored terrorism to collect court judgments by seizing foreign assets in the United States or money from those governments held by American companies doing business with them. If Libya loses a half-dozen court cases still pending, $3 billion to $6 billion could be at stake, according to lawyers' estimates. 
 ''Libya is the first country in history to come out and denounce weapons of mass destruction,'' said Ali S. Aujali, Libya's ambassador to the United States. ''We have worked very closely with the United States in recent years to fight terrorism. And now to be treated in this way, I feel like we are back to Square One.''
 But attorneys for victims of the attacks are eager to put pressure on Libya, which they argue has balked at fully paying some settlements and is still fighting over compensation in other cases.
 ''This really is a test of wills, a test to see if the United States is willing to stand up for American soldiers and others killed and wounded in attacks or for the oil companies and their profits,'' said Thomas Fortune Fay, who represents 37 American military service members injured in the bombing of a Berlin disco in 1986. He has used the new law to file liens against 13 corporations in the United States, including ExxonMobil and Occidental Petroleum, whose chief executives visited Colonel Qaddafi in the last year.
 The Libyan leader, whom Ronald Reagan once called the ''Mad Dog of the Middle East,'' denounced terrorism and agreed to dismantle his nuclear weapons programs in 2003 -- steps that led the Bush administration to lift sanctions against the country and later remove it from a list of states that sponsor terrorism. Two decades ago, though, Libya was linked to a half-dozen attacks in which Americans were killed, including the Pan Am 103 bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland, and the Berlin explosion.
 Last month, the Libyan government went on the offensive against the new law (Congress would have to authorize the president to issue the waiver Libya is seeking.) It signed a $2.4 million contract with the prominent Washington lobbying firm led by Robert L. Livingston, a former Republican congressman from Louisiana.
 Escorted by lobbyists from the firm, Ambassador Aujali has had a series of meetings with Congressional leaders. Separately, David Goldwyn, head of an oil industry group, and the Libyan government said they had approached the White House, State Department, Energy Department and the Pentagon.
 A battalion of top oil industry executives -- from companies including ConocoPhillips, Hess, Occidental and Marathon Oil --have been making the rounds on Capitol Hill, focusing on members from refinery-rich Texas, according to two lobbyists who attended the gatherings. ExxonMobil, Chevron and Dow Chemical also support the effort, participants said.
 Representatives of the oil companies say that victims of terrorism are entitled to appropriate compensation but that the law threatens to disrupt commerce that the United States is trying to encourage.
 ''The world is energy inter-dependent, and stronger commercial relationships between the U.S. and Libya would help the U.S. achieve greater energy security,'' said Margaret Cooper, a Chevron spokeswoman, in a written statement. 
 The lobbying effort has already produced one important result: four Bush administration cabinet members wrote Congress last month urging lawmakers to agree to the waiver. Likening the asset-seizure provision to ''a new form of economic sanctions,'' the letter said it would have ''a chilling effect on potentially billions of dollars in investments by U.S. companies in Libya's oil sector.'' 
 The law also puts the American oil companies at a disadvantage in competing for access to Libya's 40 billion barrels of proven oil reserves, said the letter, which was signed by Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary; Condoleezza Rice, secretary of state; Samuel W. Bodman, the energy secretary; and Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary. 
 The assets provision was added to a Defense Department authorization bill at the request of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, who has made it clear that he has no intention of backing down.
 ''My law is critical to providing justice for American victims of terrorism,'' said Mr. Lautenberg, who has been an advocate for Pan Am 103 victims, many of whom came from New Jersey. ''Some of these victims have waited decades for closure and for state sponsors of terrorism to be held accountable.'' The Bush administration has once before sought an exemption from the law, successfully insisting in January that Iraq be excluded since compliance could result in the seizure of money intended for reconstruction. In addition to Libya, the measure applies to Iran, Syria, North Korea, Cuba and Sudan.
 The dispute has dampened a moment of long-awaited celebration by the American oil giants, which have been blocked for two decades from the much coveted Libyan oil fields. The country's proven reserves are the largest in North Africa, and its light, sweet crude is less expensive to turn into gasoline than that of some Middle East producers.
 In the 1960s and 1970s, American oil companies, particularly Occidental, led by Armand Hammer, earned enormous profits pumping Libyan oil. But that all came to an end in the mid 1980s after the United States imposed sanctions on Libya. 
 Companies including Occidental, ConocoPhillips, Marathon and Hess returned starting in 2005 to re-establish control over their facilities and to win new, bigger contracts, like a deal completed in February by ExxonMobil that included a $72 million signing bonus for the Libyan government. The industry has promised to invest billions in Libya to help it become a major oil supplier to the United States.
 But the anger of the terrorism victims --whose lawsuits have been pending for years -- has posed a serious threat. While Libyan officials said they were committed to resolving the victims' claims, they dispute some and say others are unreasonable, including a recent $1.7 billion court judgment in the case of a 1989 attack on a French jet over Niger that killed seven Americans.
 Mr. Lautenberg and others in Congress who have taken up the victims' cause have blocked the appointment of an ambassador to Libya and money to build a new American Embassy there, saying that the terrorism cases should be settled first. 
 The provision adopted in January, fashioned with the assistance of lawyers and lobbyists working for attack victims, is forcing the Libyan government to make amends. 
 Libya has hired White & Case, the New York-based law firm that has successfully defended a long list of international clients in often touchy cases. Its goal is to try to negotiate a settlement to all the outstanding cases at once, which might reduce the payouts to a total of about $1 billion or less.
 The State Department, which is participating in those negotiations, has argued that Congress should agree to the waiver, which could help officials prod the Libyans to settle the cases quickly. 
 ''Libya has gone from a country that supports terrorism to one that now actively works with us against terror targets,'' said Assistant Secretary of State C. David Welch, who is leading the settlement talks. ''But there is this history. And the history is difficult for both sides to overcome.''
 For now, the oil industry lobbyists said the strategy was to focus on Representative John P. Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat, and Representative Ike Skelton, a Missouri Democrat, who lead the appropriations and armed services panels.
 Mr. Murtha and Mr. Skelton, through spokesmen, declined to comment Monday. Separately, the Libyan ambassador and a State Department official have approached Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who is the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. Mr. Levin said he would be open to considering the waiver, but only after Libya settled claims related to the disco attack and the Pan Am 103 bombing. 
 ''I would condition any support on that,'' Senator Levin said. 
 One oil industry lobbyist, speaking privately, conceded that getting Congress to change the law would be a hard sell. 
 ''As an oil company we can never win,'' said the lobbyist, who asked not to be identified because the companies had agreed not to discuss the lobbying campaign publicly. ''It is always going to seem that we care more about oil than the blood of victims of terrorism, even if that is not the case.''
 For that reason, backers of the provision say the outcome has been just as they hoped.
 ''It is working perfectly,'' said Stuart H. Newberger, a partner at the Washington office of Crowell & Moring, the law firm that is handling several cases filed by victims against Libya. ''And that means it is now clear to Libya that state-sponsored terrorism is expensive. You don't take such acts and get off cheap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, at an Arab summit meeting in Syria last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMED JADALLAH/REUTERS)(pg. A14) CHART: Terrorism-Related Claims by Victims Against Libya. Chart details STATUS OF CASES SEEKING DAMAGES FROM LIBYA within a timeline. (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); LAWYERS (76%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); DISARMAMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); OXY (NYSE) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (52%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

 
