

401 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Iran Fires Practice Missiles And Affirms Nuclear Stance 

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
As Iran fired 10 short-range missiles on the second day of a large-scale military maneuver, officials on Sunday reiterated Iran's stance that it did not intend to halt its uranium enrichment program.
 The statement comes two days before Iran's self-imposed deadline of Aug. 22 for responding to a package of incentives offered by six Western nations in return for halting the program. The United Nations Security Council has set a deadline of Aug. 31 for Ian to suspend the program or face the possibility of economic sanctions. Statements by officials so far suggest that Iran will neither agree to the incentives deal nor yield to the Security Council.
A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hamidreza Assefi, said during a weekly news conference on Sunday that Iran would not suspend the program. 
 ''The issue of suspension means returning to the past,'' he said. ''Suspension is not on our agenda.''
 The missiles fired on Sunday, called Saegheh -- thunder in Persian -- had ranges of 50 and 150 miles, the official ISNA news agency reported. In April, Iran unveiled new weaponry, including radar-evading missiles and high-speed torpedoes. 
 The war games started in the southern province of Sistan-Baluchestan on Saturday and are expected to continue along the eastern and western borders of the country in 14 provinces. The games are named after Zolfaghar, the sword of Ali, the son-in-law of the Prophet Muhammad. Ali is revered by Shiites as Muhammad's successor.
 State television showed helicopters shooting, bombs being dropped in the desert and paratroopers jumping out of helicopters. The report said various types of helicopters, fighter planes, live ammunition and bombs were used.
 ''This operation was planned in response to the evil intentions of the enemy,'' Maj. Gen. Ataollah Salehi said on state television on Saturday.
 Brig. Gen. Muhammad Hassan Dadress told the semiofficial FARS news agency that Iran was not displaying ''the major part of its military capability.'' 
 ''The army of the Islamic Republic has developed its equipment in the shortest period of time according to the most modern techniques and equipment of the enemy so that it can confront any threat,'' he said. 
 The military maneuver came during increasing international pressure over Iran's nuclear program. Uranium enrichment is a process that can lead to making fuel for nuclear reactors or, if the uranium is enriched to high enough levels, nuclear bombs.
 Iran contends that its nuclear program is for peaceful energy purposes. The United States and Europe contend that Iran is seeking to develop nuclear weapons.
 Iran has said it will give its official response on Tuesday to a package of proposals by Germany and the five permanent members of the Security Council -- China, Britain, Russia, the United States and France. The package includes economic incentives and a promise to help develop Iran's nuclear program in return for Iran's freezing its enrichment program. 
 Iran has come under increasing international pressure since the war in Lebanon broke out. The United States and Israel have accused Iran of financing and arming Hezbollah.
 The daily newspaper Shargh on Saturday quoted a Turkish newspaper report that Turkey had forced two Iranian aircraft on their way to Syria to land in Turkey after Israel said the two aircraft were carrying weapons for Hezbollah. It said no weapons were found on the planes. 
 Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a senior cleric who is in charge of the powerful Expediency Council, warned the United States in a sermon during Friday Prayer not to initiate a war on Iran over its nuclear program.
 ''We hope America has learned a lesson from the war in Lebanon and refrains from getting involved in another conflict and causing insecurity in our region,'' he said in remarks broadcast live on radio. ''The problem should be resolved by wise people through negotiations so that we can end this regional and international issue in a good way.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); HELICOPTERS (69%); SKYDIVING (69%); RELIGION (50%) Uranium; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

PERSON: Nazila Fathi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (77%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



402 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Over Nurses' Exam Stirs Unease in Philippines

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
After disclosures that test questions for Philippine nursing board examinations in June were leaked to hundreds of applicants, officials and industry experts are warning that the country's status as one of the world's top producers of nurses could be threatened.
 The country's Professional Regulation Commission has confirmed that questions in the board exams taken by more than 42,000 nursing graduates in June had been provided in advance to hundreds of examinees. The initial accusations were made by students, who contended that the president of the Philippine Nurses Association had provided the exams to students who took his coaching classes. 
The president, George Cordero, has denied the charges, but he has resigned. 
 Industry groups, meanwhile, are calling on the commission to compel the students to retake the exam to repair, according to one of the groups, the ''tainted credibility of Filipino nurses here and abroad.'' They also gone to court to stop the new nurses in Manila from taking their professional oath on Tuesday. The court ruled in their favor on Friday. Students in the provinces have already taken their oaths.
 Those who passed the June exams say it would be unfair to force them to retake the exam or to delay their certification.
 The Philippines is the top supplier of nurses to the United States, sending several thousands a year. Earlier this year, a change in American immigration law lifted the cap on the number of foreign nurses American hospitals and clinics can hire. The move created more opportunities for Filipino nurses, who are also in demand in Europe, Japan and other more affluent Asian countries.
 The scandal, officials said, could greatly damage this status of Filipino nurses abroad. Already, Philippine officials said, American recruiters are turning away nurses who took the fraudulent board exams, while those who remain in the Philippines are having difficulty finding jobs. Questions also have been raised about the integrity of previous nursing board exams.
 The Philippine Senate has started investigating the scandal. ''American hospitals, Japanese hospitals, European hospitals are watching us,'' Richard Gordon, a senator, said during a Senate hearing last week. Health experts at the hearing said they feared a moratorium by other countries on hiring Filipino nurses.
 Although officials contend that the quality of Filipino nurses hired in other countries would not be affected in the long run because the new nurses generally must pass tests in destination countries, the credibility problem could persist.
 ''The credibility of the Filipino nurses has been tainted,'' said Rosalinda D. Baldoz, the administrator of the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, in an interview with the Middle Eastern newspaper Gulf News.
 The Philippine economy is heavily dependent on the remittances sent home by millions of its overseas workers.
 While Filipino nurses have always enjoyed some kind of a favored status in the United States, the emergence of other countries that supply nurses, like India, has been a concern in the Philippines of late. This scandal, officials said, will certainly add to the problem.
 Mr. Cordero, who led the nurse's association, was accused during the Senate hearing of leaking the exam in order to favor students who took courses at a nursing review center that he owns, thus improving their chances of being recruited abroad.
 He has also been accused of bribing examiners so that he could get advance copies of the test questions, and of paying for a trip to Switzerland for some members of the Board of Nursing, which administers the exams.
 Mr. Cordero has denied the allegations and has threatened to sue his detractors for libel. He declined requests for an interview.
 Dr. Kenneth G. Ronquillo, chief of human resources at the Philippine Department of Health, said the government and the medical profession ''should do its best to erase all doubt about the integrity of the nursing board exams.''
 Senator Gordon criticized what he called ''a culture of cheating'' in the Philippines.
 ''We have a tendency to want to beat the system, in the elections, in sports accreditations, and even in civil service exams,'' he said, referring to other scandals here, among them the accusations that President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo cheated in the 2004 elections, though that has never been resolved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (64%); IMMIGRATION (64%) Medicine and Health; Tests and Testing; Cheating; Nursing and Nurses; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Carlos H Conde; George Cordero

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%) Philippines 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



403 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Europe Delays Decision On Troops for Lebanon
The cease-fire in Lebanon suffered another blow when European countries that were called upon to provide the backbone of a peacekeeping force balked over sending large numbers of troops for what they said was an ill-defined mission. A1

Britain Limits Speech Topics 

A new British antiterrorism law aims to curtail what people may say in public, with the underlying assumption that the speeches and publications of extreme Islamists may play a role in leading disgruntled young men toward violence. Yet despite the law, some Islamist leaders persist, declaring it the duty of British Muslims to kill in the name of Islam. A8

Iraqi Procession Attacked
Rooftop snipers and mortar fire killed 20 people and wounded 300 others as they walked through religiously mixed neighborhoods in Baghdad to commemorate the death of one of Shiite Islam's holiest figures. A9

Taliban Routed, Afghans Say
Heavy fighting broke out in southern Afghanistan when Taliban insurgents attacked in force against Afghan and NATO troops. Dozens of Taliban fighters and five members of the Afghan security forces were reported killed, military officials said. A9

Iran Firm on Nuclear Program
As Iran test-fired 10 short-range missiles during a large-scale military maneuver, a Foreign Ministry spokesman reiterated the nation's stance that it did not intend to halt its uranium enrichment program. A7

Philippine Nursing Test Leaked
After disclosures that test questions for Philippine nursing board examinations were leaked to hundreds of applicants, officials and experts warned that the country's status as one of the top producers of nurses could be threatened. A4

NATIONAL A10-15

McCain Building Team For 2008 Presidential Run
Senator John McCain is locking up a cast of top-shelf Republican strategists, policy experts, fund-raisers and donors in an effort to build a 2008 presidential campaign machine that is drawing supporters of President Bush despite the sometimes rocky history between the two men. A1

Being Pakistani in the U.S.
Members of the Pakistani immigrant community in the United States find themselves joining the speculation as to whether sinister plots might be hatched in ethnic enclaves, like those in Britain that have proved to be a breeding ground for terror cells. The common response is no, because of differences that have made Pakistani-Americans better off economically and more assimilated culturally. A1

New Orleans Schools Struggle
For parents throughout New Orleans, the first post-hurricane back-to-school season is having an inauspicious start. But it is perhaps most chaotic for those relying on a new state effort to rescue dozens of city schools, called the Recovery School District, that were a disaster even before Hurricane Katrina. A10

Welfare, 10 Years Later
Ten years after the nation's welfare system was overhauled, the implications are still rippling through policy and politics. The law, which reversed six decades of social welfare policy and ended the idea of free cash handouts for the poor, was widely seen as a victory for conservative ideas. A12

Suspect Returns to U.S.
John M. Karr arrived in Los Angeles after he wined and dined his way across the Pacific Ocean in custody. He was traveling from Bangkok and expected to face charges in Colorado in the 1996 murder of 6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Lieberman Says Pentagon Needs New Leadership
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, facing continued criticism from many in the Democratic Party because of his support for the war in Iraq, called for the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld in a television interview. B1

Police Trying Out Muscle Car
Chrysler is manufacturing a new version of the Charger, a muscle car made famous by ''The Dukes of Hazzard,'' for law enforcement agencies, and the New York Police Department is giving 15 of them a trial run. B1

Woman to Head Synagogue
The appointment Dina Najman as the spiritual leader of a small Upper West Side congregation is a milestone for advocates of an expanded role for women in Orthodox Judaism. But the situation is bursting with the contradictions and tensions that come with trying to reconcile modern egalitarian impulses with fidelity to ancient religious texts. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Woods Wins Championship
Tiger Woods closed the PGA Tour's major championship season with a five-stroke victory over Shaun Micheel in the P.G.A. Championship, adding the 12th major title of his career and drawing ever closer to Jack Nicklaus's record of 18. D1

ARTS E1-10

A Letdown After Web Hype
''Snakes on a Plane,'' the wildly hyped high-concept movie, may turn out to be a Web-only phenomenon. The horror-comedy, starring Samuel L. Jackson, took in just $15.2 million at the box office in its opening days. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Investors and Online Betting
A recent indictment involving BetOnSports has prompted a big sell-off in the shares of publicly traded online casinos. C1

Mr. Smith Goes to India
A company created by the actor Will Smith and a business partner has a production deal to produce two movies in India. C1

Stock Options and a Fugitive
A United States criminal complaint describes Jacob Alexander -- a former executive of Comverse Technology who is now a fugitive -- as a man who treated options as if they were free for the taking. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Waiting for Jacques; enter search term here, forever; Hillary Clinton's low profile; Spike Lee films the New Orleans disaster his way.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Bridge E8
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
Obituaries B7
TV Listings E9
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); RELIGION (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); NURSES & NURSING (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (63%); HURRICANES (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



404 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Pakistanis Find U.S. an Easier Fit Than Britain

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
The stretch of Devon Avenue in North Chicago also named for Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, seems as if it has been transplanted directly from that country. The shops are packed with traditional wedding finery, and the spice mix in the restaurants' kebabs is just right. 
 Similar enclaves in Britain have been under scrutiny since they have proved to be a breeding ground for cells of terrorists, possibly including the 24 men arrested recently as suspects in a plot to blow up airliners flying out of London.
Yet Devon Avenue is in many ways different. Although heavily Pakistani, the street is far more exposed to other cultures than are similar communities in Britain.
 Indian Hindus have a significant presence along the roughly one-and-a-half-mile strip of boutiques, whose other half is named for Gandhi. What was a heavily Jewish neighborhood some 20 years ago also includes recent immigrants from Colombia, Mexico and Ukraine, among others. 
 ''There is integration even when you have an enclave,'' said Nizam Arain, 32, a lawyer of Pakistani descent who was born and raised in Chicago. ''You don't have the same siege mentality.'' 
 Even so, members of the Pakistani immigrant community here find themselves joining the speculation as to whether sinister plots could be hatched in places like Devon (pronounced deh-VAHN) Avenue. 
 The most common response is no, at least not now, because of differences that have made Pakistanis in the United States far better off economically and more assimilated culturally than their counterparts in Britain. But some Pakistani-Americans do not rule out the possibility, given how little is understood about the exact tipping point that pushes angry young Muslim men to accept an ideology that endorses suicide and mass murder.
 The idea of a relatively smaller, more prosperous, more striving immigrant community inoculating against terror cells goes only so far, they say. 
 ''It makes it sound like it couldn't happen here because we are the good immigrants: hard-working, close-knit, educated,'' said Junaid Rana, an assistant professor of Asian-American studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and an American-born son of Pakistani immigrants. ''But we are talking about a cult mind-set, how a cult does its brainwashing.''
 Yet one major difference between the United States and Britain, some say, is the United States' historical ideal of being a melting-pot meritocracy.
 ''You can keep the flavor of your ethnicity, but you are expected to become an American,'' said Omer Mozaffar, 34, a Pakistani-American raised here who is working toward a doctorate in Islamic studies at the University of Chicago. 
 Britain remains far more rigid. In the United States, for example, Pakistani physicians are more likely to lead departments at hospitals or universities than they are in Britain, said Dr. Tariq H. Butt, a 52-year-old family physician who arrived in the United States 25 years ago for his residency. 
 Nationwide, Pakistanis appear to be prospering. The census calculated that mean household income in the United States in 2002 was $57,852 annually, while that for Asian households, which includes Pakistanis, was $70,047. By contrast, about one-fifth of young British-born Muslims are jobless, and many subsist on welfare.
 Hard numbers on how many people of Pakistani descent live in the United States do not exist, but a forthcoming book from Harvard University Press on charitable donations among Pakistani-Americans, ''Portrait of a Giving Community,'' puts the number around 500,000, with some 35 percent or more of them in the New York metropolitan area. Chicago has fewer than 100,000, while other significant clusters exist in California, Texas and Washington, D.C.
 Pakistani immigration to the United States surged after laws in the 1960's made it easier for Asians to enter the country. Most were drawn by jobs in academia, medicine and engineering. It was only in the late 1980's and 90's that Pakistanis arrived to work blue-collar jobs as taxi drivers or shopkeepers, said Adil Najam, the author of the book on donations and an international relations professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. 
 In Britain, by comparison, the first Pakistanis arrived after World War II to work in factories. Many were fleeing sectarian strife in Kashmir -- a lingering source of resentment -- and entire communities picked up and resettled together. This created Pakistani ghettos in cities like Bradford and Birmingham, whereas in the United States immigrants tended to be scattered and newcomers forced to assimilate. The trends intensified with time. 
 A decade ago, for example, a Pakistani in Chicago who wanted to buy halal meat, from animals butchered in a religiously sanctioned manner, could find it only on Devon Avenue. Now halal butchers dot the city and its suburbs. 
 Thousands of immigrants and their American-born offspring still flock to Devon Avenue because of its restaurants and traditional goods, including wedding saris for women and long, elaborate shirts and gilded slippers with curled toes for men. The avenue's half-dozen rudimentary mosques have a reputation for being more conservative than those elsewhere in Chicago, with the imams emphasizing an adherence to Muslim tradition. 
 ''They go to an area where they have a feeling of nostalgia, and even psychologically it is important for immigrant communities to feel that their home country is represented,'' said Dr. Butt, an early member of the Association of Physicians of Pakistani Descent of North America, one of the oldest immigrant organizations here. 
 But immigrants are not mired in the Devon Avenue neighborhood; many move out once they can afford better. Unlike the situation in Britain, there is no collective history here of frustrated efforts to assimilate into a society where a shortened form of Pakistani is a stinging slur, and there are no centuries-old grievances nursed from British colonial rule over what became Pakistan. 
 Where such comparisons fail, however, is in providing a model to predict why some young Muslims turn to violence, although no religion is immune. In the United States there have been a few cases of young Pakistani men being arrested or tried in terror plots, in Atlanta and in Lodi, Calif., for example.
 Ifti Nasim, a former luxury car salesman turned poet and gay rights advocate, greets a visitor with a slim volume of his works. The cover photograph shows him wearing a bright orange dress, ropes of pearls and a long blond wig. He has been in the United States since 1971.
 Some shoppers crowding the sidewalks on Devon Avenue greet Mr. Nasim warmly, telling him they listen to his radio show or read his columns in a local Urdu-language newspaper. In Pakistan, Mr. Nasim says, his flamboyance would not be tolerated, but here he calls his acceptance ''the litmus test of the society.'' 
 Like many, however, he has moments of doubt, saying, ''Pakistani society in Chicago has made a smooth transition so far, but you never know.'' 
 A more important factor in determining who becomes a militant is most likely the feeling of being stigmatized as less than equal, community activists say, noting that such discrimination remains far more common in Britain. It is probably compounded by the fact that violence against Muslims in Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine and Lebanon feels so much closer there, they say. 
 Overt bigotry is rarer here, but it exists. For instance, Mohamed Hanis, a taxi driver who is a Pakistani immigrant, said that on the Friday night after the terror alert in London, a young white man climbed into his cab.Noticing the name Mohamed, the man threatened to report that Mr. Hanis had admitted to supporting terrorist attacks unless he could get a free ride. Instead, Mr. Hanis hailed a police officer who forced the passenger to pay. 
 Mr. Mozaffar, the University of Chicago student, said he had grown up with revered Muslim role models like Muhammad Ali and Kareem Abdul-Jabar, but now there were none. He teaches religion classes for young Muslims, and the question inevitably arises whether the creed justifies using violence for political or religious aims. He emphasizes that Islam forbids killing innocent civilians, and community members here have said they will not tolerate a mosque prayer leader advocating violence. 
 Initial reports about the British suspects quoted neighbors as saying that some of the men had become more religious, adopting Islamic dress and praying five times a day. That kind of transformation happens in Chicago, too, but the idea that any such change should automatically arouse suspicion rather than be considered teenage rebellion or a religious conversion makes community activists bridle. 
 For the past eight years, Abdul Qadeer Sheikh, 46, has managed Islamic Books N Things on Devon Avenue, which sells items like Korans, prayer rugs and Arabic alphabet books. He says that since Sept. 11, he has seen signs of the bias that has existed in Britain for decades developing here. He describes a distinctive fear of being seen as Muslim, even along Devon Avenue. Before, a good 70 percent of the women who came into his shop were veiled, he said. Now the reverse is true, and far fewer men wear traditional clothes. 
 The attitude of the American government in adopting terms like ''Islamic fascists'' and deporting large numbers of immigrants, he said, makes Muslims feel marked, as if they do not belong here. ''The society in the United States is much fairer to foreigners than anywhere else,'' he said, ''but that mood is changing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pakistani immigrants and their American-born children flock to Devon Avenue in Chicago because of its traditional restaurants and goods. (Photo by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Devon Avenue is the center of Chicago's Pakistani community. A sign on the door to a bookstore alerts customers that the shop is closed for prayer.
 Businesses on Devon Avenue in Chicago, like an Islamic bookstore, left, and a shop selling traditional clothing, attract a large Pakistani clientele. The avenue is also home to a half-dozen conservative mosques. (Photographs by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Map of Chicago highlighting Devon Avenue. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MEN (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (74%); ETHNICITY (74%); RELIGION (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); REFUGEES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; Pakistani-Americans; Discrimination; Airlines and Airplanes

PERSON: Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); INDIA (79%); UKRAINE (77%) Great Britain; Chicago (Ill); Pakistan; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



405 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, a Fierce Contest to Be Assembly Successor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
For nearly 25 years, Roger L. Green has represented a swath of central Brooklyn in the Assembly, but now that he is running for Congress, the race to succeed him has become one of the most contentious in New York City.
 The three candidates running in the Democratic primary for the seat, representing the 57th Assembly District, each have political histories that have made them known to many voters in the district. 
One, Hakeem Jeffries, 36, a lawyer with CBS, has twice tried to unseat Mr. Green. After his last effort, the district lines were redrawn, placing his home one block outside the district. He has since moved back into the district and has put together a well-financed campaign with strong union and political support.
 Another, Bill Batson, 42, is a former aide to State Senator David A. Paterson, who is now the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor. And Freddie Hamilton, 63, who founded a nonprofit organization to provide programs for youth and is a longtime Democratic district leader in Brooklyn, is also vice chairwoman of the Brooklyn Democratic Party.
 The district, which is heavily Democratic, stretches from downtown Brooklyn and Prospect Heights into Fort Greene, Clinton Hill and Bedford-Stuyvesant. 
 It has pockets where home prices and rents have skyrocketed in the last decade as wealthier white residents have replaced the longtime working-class and middle-class black population.
 While the three candidates concur on the need to develop low- and middle-income housing, there have been some sharp areas of disagreement, notably on the proposed Atlantic Yards project near downtown Brooklyn.
 The project's developer, Forest City Ratner Companies, wants to place a sports arena and more than a dozen buildings, some as tall as 62 stories, on 22 acres where a mix of vacant lots, low-rise apartments, abandoned buildings and condominiums now sit.
 Ms. Hamilton is a staunch supporter of the project, saying that it will bring jobs, economic opportunity and affordable housing to residents of the area.
 ''It's the kind of project that I feel strongly will do some good in this community,'' she said.
 Mr. Batson is equally outspoken as a foe of the project. He said the project would strain public services and make traffic worse, and that the project includes too little housing for low-income residents.
 Mr. Jeffries is in the middle. He criticized the scope of the project, saying that it was too big. 
 ''We should encourage smart development,'' he said. ''But it cannot be at the expense of the community. We should build something there that addresses the affordable-homeownership crisis in the community. But it should be scaled down.''
 Mr. Batson said that the Atlantic Yards project was only a symptom of a larger problem in Brooklyn regarding development. 
 ''The problem is that the only economy is real estate, and people in Brooklyn are viewed as so many bison and buffalos,'' he said. ''We need to freeze the clock. Anyone who comes should feel welcome, but no one who lives here should feel forced out.''
 Similarly, Mr. Jeffries said that he would push to make certain that ''New York State gets back in the affordable housing business.''
 ''People have to be able to purchase homes in the communities where, in many cases, they have lived all their lives,'' he said.
 In political terms, Mr. Jeffries has a huge lead in fund-raising and in political and labor endorsements. He has raised more than $125,000 for the campaign, with $77,000 of that in the first six months of this year, according his financial filing in July, when he reported having nearly $90,000 left to spend.
 William C. Thompson Jr., the city's comptroller; City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn; and Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, the Brooklyn Democratic chairman, as well as District Council 37, Service Employees International Union Local 32BJ and the Communications Workers of America, have endorsed him.
 The Sierra Club, the environmental organization, and a number of Democratic clubs in Brooklyn have endorsed Mr. Batson. 
 Mr. Batson resigned from Mr. Paterson's office to run for the Assembly; he has also worked for the New York Civil Liberties Union, and he was campaign manager for Norman Siegel's unsuccessful run for public advocate five years ago.
 Mr. Batson has raised $62,000, which includes his own loan of $26,000 to the campaign.
 Both Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Batson have armies of volunteers who can be spotted throughout the district, along with their campaign signs. 
 Ms. Hamilton has not done nearly as well, having raised about $17,000 in the first six months of the year, and with about $2,000 on hand, according to the July filing. 
 However, she said that she had wide support in the district, pointing to her endorsement by Mr. Green, the incumbent. In his run for Congress, Mr. Green hopes to unseat a longtime incumbent, Edolphus Towns.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Democrats are, clockwise from top: Bill Batson, 42, a former aide to State Senator David Paterson
Freddie Hamilton, 63, vice chairwoman of the Brooklyn Democratic Party
and Hakeem Jeffries, 36, a lawyer. (Photos by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Nicholas Roberts for The New York Times)Map of Brooklyn highlighting the 57th Assembly District: The district has pockets where home prices have skyrocketed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%) Election Issues

COMPANY: RATNER COS (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (66%)

PERSON: HAKEEM JEFFRIES (92%); DAVID PATERSON (72%) Jonathan P Hicks; Bill Batson; Freddie Hamilton; Hakeem Jeffries; Roger L (Assemblyman) Green

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



406 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: A Product Endorsement, Courtesy of the Revolution 

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
The world already knows that Fidel Castro, the temporarily sidelined president of Cuba, was a pitcher in his younger days -- he even briefly played with a barnstorming team after the revolution -- and remains a huge sports fan. Now it knows something else: like Zinedine Zidane, Tracy McGrady and Reggie Bush, Mr. Castro is an Adidas man. 
 Not that Adidas, the multinational athletic equipment company based in Germany, is taking out billboards to spread the news. Rather, the world's news media spread the word after the Cuban government released the first photographs of Mr. Castro, 80, recuperating from surgery for intestinal bleeding in Havana. Mr. Castro was shown in a resplendent red, white and blue jacket with an Adidas symbol on the right breast, the kind of unintentional product endorsement that any company trying to sell in the United States might want to avoid.
''We don't really look at it as anything,'' said Travis Gonzolez, head of public relations for Adidas, adding that the company also provided athletic shoes to President Bush. ''It's not a positive, not a negative.'' 
 ''We are a sports brand. We are making products for athletes, we are not making them for leaders.''
 The company had received neither praise nor complaints about the Castro photographs. Mr. Gonzolez said the company had a longstanding relationship with the country's Olympic team, adding, ''We are more proud when the Cuban athletes win Olympic medals, because we provided them the tools to succeed.'' The jacket, he said, appeared to be a generic tracksuit from the country's sports federation. 
 Michael Cucka, a partner at Group 1066, a marketing strategy and branding company, described the worldwide publicity around the photograph as an example of how increasingly, ''companies don't control their brands anymore.'' 
 In the past it was simpler, he said: ''You hire Tiger Woods, pay him millions of dollars, he's in your ad campaigns, and the company is in control of its brand.'' 
 Of course, similar examples of inadvertent product placement go back at least to 1994, when it was reported that sales of the Ford Bronco rose 25 percent immediately after O.J. Simpson drove one down the San Diego Freeway and across America's TV screens, though Ford executives at the time stressed that sports utility vehicles were doing well generally. Likewise, Mr. Cucka said he remembered an ad for The Economist that was simply a photograph of President Bill Clinton leaving Air Force 1 holding a copy of the magazine. 
 ''It's a new world,'' Mr. Cucka said. ''Consumers have more of a say of what a brand says -- it could be bad, could be good.'' NOAM COHEN


GRAPHIC: Photo: A recovering Fidel Castro wears an Adidas jacket, a random bit of advertising for the sportswear company. (Photo by Juventud Rebelde, via Polaris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT PROMOTION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (88%); OLYMPICS (77%); FOOTWEAR (76%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (75%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (72%); SPORTS FANS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); BRANDING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Apparel; News Photography; Advertising and Marketing; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: Adidas Ag

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TIGER WOODS (50%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; Michael Cucka; Travis Gonzolez; Noam Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



407 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: At Comverse, Many Smart Business Moves and Maybe a Bad One 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
To many, Jacob Alexander is the Larry Ellison of Israel -- minus the flash and dazzle.
 Like his counterpart Mr. Ellison, the chief executive of the software giant Oracle, Mr. Alexander transformed a communications software company, Comverse Technology, from a start-up to a market leader with annual sales of more than $1 billion.
That made Mr. Alexander, known as Kobi, a pioneer and hero in Israel's emerging high-tech industry. These days, though, Mr. Alexander is also referred to by another title: fugitive. 
 Mr. Alexander, 54, is believed to have fled the United States after he and two other former Comverse executives were charged earlier this month with securities, mail and wire fraud by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn. A warrant has been issued for his arrest. 
 Yet the odds are that it will be a long time before Mr. Alexander explains himself in a courtroom, if ever.
 Mr. Alexander's lawyer, Robert G. Morvillo, said he last heard from his client more than two weeks ago and he believed that Mr. Alexander and his family were on vacation in Israel. Mr. Alexander is an Israeli citizen and is a former military officer there. And in late July, according to prosecutors, Mr. Alexander wired $57 million to an account in Israel.
 While the United States has an extradition treaty with Israel, it is unclear whether the treaty covers the crimes that Mr. Alexander is accused of, law professors said. Furthermore, given Mr. Alexander's stature and record of military service, Israel may be reluctant to readily hand him over, they add. 
 While Mr. Alexander is widely known in Israel, his profile in the United States is lower. 
 Former colleagues describe him as a meticulous, highly intelligent man who often asked about their family members and enjoyed watching sports and trading stocks. Yet the criminal complaint portrays a man who treated options as if they were free for the taking. 
 Options give an employee the right to buy a stock at some point in the future at the price of the stock on the day the option was granted, commonly referred to as the strike price. The higher the stock price climbs, the more valuable the option becomes.
 Many executives became fabulously wealthy by exercising options during the technology boom, and Comverse executives were no different.
 Comverse stock soared on an adjusted basis from about $13 in early 1997 to a peak of $121.63 in 2001, when the tech bubble was deflating. It closed Friday at $21.24.
 Top executives and members of Comverse's board, including Mr. Alexander's father and his sister, who were directors for several years, exercised options for Comverse for profits of more than $295 million since 1997, according to an analysis of regulatory filings by Thomson Financial. 
 Mr. Alexander alone accounted for half the options-related profits -- about $140 million. In addition, Mr. Alexander received about $28 million in salary, bonuses and other perks during those years, according to Equilar, a compensation analysis firm in San Mateo, Calif.
 At Comverse, favored employees were given options that could be exercised overnight for millions in profits, prosecutors said. And when the options began to lose some of their value, Mr. Alexander and the other executives scrambled to make them more valuable by changing the grant dates of the options, a practice known as backdating, according to court papers.
 Prosecutors said Mr. Alexander had made about $6.4 million in profits from backdating, while the chief financial officer, David Kreinberg, and general counsel, William F. Sorin, each made about $1 million. All three resigned from the company in late April.
 One former colleague struggled to explain why Mr. Alexander might have risked his name and future for such a relatively paltry amount.
 ''The one thing about Kobi is that he did have a sense of entitlement,'' said Stephen R. Kowarsky, who was an executive at Comverse from 1985-97. ''Most people are a little bit shy or self-effacing about asking for something, but not Kobi. It was easy for him to say, 'I want that. I deserve that.' ''
 A spokesman for Comverse, Paul D. Baker, declined to comment for this article.
 Mr. Alexander grew up in Tel Aviv. His father is Zvi Alexander, who spent 40 years in the oil industry in Israel. After serving as an officer in the Israeli defense forces, the younger Mr. Alexander earned a degree in economics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1977. 
 He moved to New York, where he worked as an investment banker at Shearson Loeb Rhoades while attending courses at night for his master's in business administration at New York University.
 It was in New York that Mr. Alexander met an engineer named Boaz Misholi. Mr. Misholi had a revolutionary idea about a voice- and fax-messaging system. The two men, along with Mr. Alexander's brother-in-law, Yechiam Yemini, returned to Israel to create a company called Efrat. 
 The start-up was financed in part with subsidies from the Israeli government, which was trying to stimulate its high-tech industry.
 In 1984, Mr. Alexander returned to New York to establish headquarters for Comverse, which would become a holding company for Efrat and other subsidiaries. The name was a blend of ''communication'' and ''versatility.'' 
 By the early 1990's, Mr. Alexander had survived a power struggle over control of the company that led to Mr. Misholi's departure. Mr. Alexander had already made several major decisions that positioned Comverse extremely well for the telecommunications boom to come.
 While most telecommunications equipment manufacturers were focusing their efforts on telecom giants in the United States, Mr. Alexander steered Comverse toward Europe and its wireless phone markets.
 ''We decided to do a lot of deals with the small and medium telecoms in Europe and then leverage the experience we had in the U.S. market,'' said Mark E. McIlvane, who joined the company in 1986 as a sales and marketing executive and left in 1997. 
 One of Comverse's earliest and biggest customers was Deutsche Telekom, but the company eventually landed contracts with several European, Latin American and Far Eastern companies before it pushed into the United States market. That was achieved largely through the 1997 acquisition of Boston Technology.
 Mr. Alexander had ambitious plans for Comverse and his growing wealth. He talked of turning Comverse into the Nokia of Israel. He once bragged to a reporter that he could borrow money with little more than a business plan scribbled out on a napkin. 
 In 2000, he cashed in more than $80 million worth of options. He then fulfilled a longtime fantasy by buying a stake in Tel Aviv's basketball team. And when he found an apartment building in New York that he liked on West 57th Street, he bought several units in the building.
 Yet Mr. Alexander faced a common problem for companies in the tech boom -- hiring and retaining important talent.
 It was around that time that Mr. Alexander, along with Mr. Kreinberg, then the chief financial officer, and Mr. Sorin, Comverse's legal counsel, started a plan to alter the dates when options had been granted to employees, backdating them to a time when the stock price was lower so that the recipient could earn even bigger profits, according to the criminal complaint filed by federal prosecutors.
 Prosecutors say Mr. Kreinberg, with Mr. Sorin's knowledge, engaged in a similar backdating scheme at Ulticom, a subsidiary of Comverse that went public in 2000 and provides about 4 percent of Comverse's revenues. 
 Another Comverse subsidiary, Verint Systems, which provides more than 25 percent of Comverse's revenues, is also looking into its options practices. 
 Prosecutors said the doctoring of option grant dates began at Comverse when an assistant who is unnamed in the court filings took on the job of compiling lists of employees for whom stock option grants were being proposed, for consideration by the board's compensation committee. The assistant kept a record of the employee names, option awards and dates in a spreadsheet.
 According to information provided to the government by the assistant, Mr. Alexander or Mr. Kreinberg instructed the assistant at various times to insert earlier, incorrect dates -- when Comverse's stock traded a lower price -- as the dates the stock options had been granted. Mr. Sorin would then call members of the three-person compensation committee to discuss the number of options that were to be awarded. Prosecutors said two members of the compensation committee (not identified in court filings) said they assumed that the option grants were dated on the date of the telephone calls. In fact, the calls came after the dates of the grants, prosecutors said. 
 But the backdating of options was only part of the plan at Comverse. 
 Around 1999, Mr. Alexander and Mr. Kreinberg instructed the assistant to create a secret account for options that the two could give to employees at Mr. Alexander's discretion, as incentives for recruitment and retention. (The assistant, who had recently seen ''Phantom of the Opera,'' named the pool of options ''I. M. Fanton,'' in a misspelled rendering of ''phantom,'' according to court documents.) Mr. Alexander later transferred the options from this secret account to employees.
 When the tech bubble burst and telecom spending around the globe stopped seemingly overnight, Comverse executives found another way to give themselves and their employees and directors more profits.
 As Comverse stock sank, options across the company that were granted during the boom years were becoming worthless. So, in 2002, the board recommended and shareholders approved a plan to reprice the worthless options.
 For Mr. Alexander, who was sitting on more than 1.9 million options that were worthless, the plan permitted him to exchange those for options with a new exercise price. Since then, he has exercised options on more than 1.1 million shares for a profit of $16 million, according to Thomson Financial.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacob Alexander, once chairman and chief executive of Comverse, is now a fugitive. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 David Kreinberg, left, Comverse's former chief financial officer, and William F. Sorin, its general counsel, after being arraigned Aug. 9. (Photographs by Ramin Talaie for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Jacob Alexander's Pay''TOTAL COMPENSATION in thousands1997 -- $6,3211998 -- 451999 -- 13,8822000 -- 22,7922001 -- 102,5012002 -- 1,7192003 -- 1,3262004 -- 14,9542005 -- 9,694Data are for fiscal years and include base salary, bonus, restricted stock and other compensation. The company's fiscal year changed in 1998.(Source by Equilar)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ACCOUNTING (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); ARRESTS (74%); ARREST WARRANTS (70%); BONUS PAY (69%); ETHICS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); STOCK OPTIONS (62%) Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Extradition; Accounting and Accountants; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Comverse Technology Inc; Comverse Technology Inc

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (90%) Jacob Alexander; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



408 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: A Decade After Welfare Overhaul, a Fundamental Shift in Policy and Perception 

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Ten years after a Republican Congress collaborated with a Democratic president to overhaul the nation's welfare system, the implications are still rippling through policy and politics.
 The law, which reversed six decades of social welfare policy and ended the idea of free cash handouts for the poor, was widely seen as a victory for conservative ideas. When it was passed, some opponents offered dire predictions that the law would make things worse for the poor. But the number of people on welfare has plunged to 4.4 million, down 60 percent. Employment of single mothers is up. Child support collections have nearly doubled.
''We have been vindicated by the results,'' said Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida and an architect of the 1996 law who was vilified at the time. ''Welfare reform was one of the most successful policy changes in our nation's history.''
 But critics say it has cut adrift some single mothers who seem unable to hold steady jobs and are not receiving cash assistance -- women who have neither work nor welfare. 
 To help poor single mothers help themselves, officials used a combination of conservative and liberal policy tools. These included work requirements and time limits on public assistance, tax credits for low-income working parents, child-care subsidies and health insurance for people leaving welfare.
 ''We hardly ever make radical change in this country, but welfare reform was a radical change,'' said Prof. Richard P. Nathan, director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York. ''It sent a very strong signal to welfare recipients: We can help you, if you help yourself.'' 
 In an interview, former President Bill Clinton said he was ''more convinced than ever'' that he had been right to sign the bill, after vetoing two earlier versions that he had seen as too harsh.
 ''The bill has done far more good than harm,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''Most of the people who got jobs are still working.''
 When the 1996 law was passed, Democrats like Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, liberal advocacy groups like the Children's Defense Fund and liberal academics predicted that it would increase child poverty, hunger and homelessness. The predictions were not fulfilled. 
 But Republican hopes have not been completely realized either. While single mothers are more likely to work, many remain in poverty. 
 The 1996 law did not become a template for changes in other programs, nor did it portend a major ideological shift to the right. President Bush's efforts to curb the growth of larger entitlement programs and to create an ''ownership society'' have faltered. Congress authorized health savings accounts but rebuffed proposals for a nationwide program of school vouchers. Mr. Bush's campaign to overhaul Social Security, with the creation of personal retirement accounts, ended in a political fiasco for him and his party.
 The law has largely neutralized welfare as a political issue. Welfare mothers are seen in a more favorable light now that most are required to work. Welfare has become ''more supportable and acceptable, more defensible,'' said Professor Nathan, a moderate Republican who served as a welfare official in the Nixon administration.
 Democrats and Republicans fight over important details, like the amount of money available for child care or the number of hours that must be worked by welfare recipients. But hardly anyone advocates a return to the old system. 
 If the new system has been a success, much of the credit goes to state and local officials who changed the mission of welfare agencies to emphasize work over welfare.
 Governors, who lobbied for the 1996 law, have won new respect in Washington, and Congress is more willing to entrust them with power and discretion, as it did in Medicaid legislation passed this year. 
 The old focus on the ''social pathology'' of welfare has given way to a broader debate over a more complicated challenge: how to enable not only single mothers, but all low-wage workers to earn more. 
 ''The problems of the working poor who came off welfare are mainly the problems that all low-wage earners in America have,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''They are not unique to people who came off welfare.''
 Prof. Jeffrey T. Grogger, an economist at the University of Chicago, said, ''The 1996 law was more successful in promoting work and reducing the rolls than anyone imagined.'' But, Professor Grogger said, the earnings of former welfare recipients often remain low.
 ''We took people who used to be the welfare poor,'' he said, ''and now they are the working poor.'' 
 While many people left welfare for jobs that paid progressively better wages, others have been on and off assistance.
 Chevaughn L. Stephens of Seattle, a 29-year-old mother of three, said: ''The emphasis on work first did not help me at all. It kept me back. It kept me from getting the education and skills I needed.''
 In the last decade, Ms. Stephens said, she has had jobs as a waitress, a taxi dispatcher and a telephone sales representative. She is taking courses to get a high school equivalency certificate, needed for better-paying jobs.
 Ronald T. Haskins, a welfare policy expert who worked on the legislation as an aide to House Republicans, said, ''Surveys show that about 60 percent of the mothers who leave welfare are working at any given moment, and around 70 percent have held at least one job since leaving welfare.'' 
 But Mr. Haskins, now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said, ''Some mothers at the bottom of the income distribution -- perhaps 10 percent of single mothers who had been on welfare -- are floundering and appear to be worse off now than before welfare reform.'' He said that federal data suggested ''a disconcerting increase in the number of poor mothers with no obvious sources of income.'' 
 The 1996 law changed the psychology of welfare recipients and caseworkers. Mindful of time limits under the law, single mothers came to see welfare as temporary, short-term assistance. 
 One of the most significant features of the 1996 law was the five-year limit on assistance for any family. Democrats feared it would cause immense hardship. To the surprise of welfare officials and policy analysts, most welfare recipients came nowhere near the limit.
 But the looming time limit may nevertheless have influenced the choices and behavior of welfare recipients. Professor Grogger said many people, aware of the deadline, left welfare after only a couple of years so they could ''save the benefits for a rainy day.'' 
 Overhaul of the welfare system coincided with a booming economy, which created more jobs for single mothers surging into the work force. Many of the most positive trends slowed after 2001, suggesting that economic conditions might be just as important as program changes. 
 ''Welfare'' used to mean a monthly check that could be immediately converted to cash. But more than half of the money now goes into child care, education, training and other services -- a huge shift since 1996.
 Olivia A. Golden, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute who was a welfare official in the Clinton administration, said: ''The next steps that will make a difference for low-income families are not primarily about welfare, which now serves a very small number of families. They are about supporting working families who left welfare or never went on it.''
 New battle lines are forming. Conservatives arepushing for stiffer work requirements and for more attention to marriage as an antidote to poverty. Many moderates and liberals want to broaden support for poor workers by providing more money for child care, more access to unemployment insurance and higher minimum wages. And many experts say the states have yet to come to grips with the group of single mothers whose lives are so troubled that they are unlikely to hold steady jobs.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Welfare Trends for Single Mothers''Welfare legislation was passed in 1996 with the intention of reducing dependence of families on government assistance. A Congressional report studied female-headed families with children, the primary group affected by the new law.Graphs track the following from 1990-2004:The percentage of single mothers who work* has increased . . .. . . and those who receive welfare* has declined . . .. . . but many are poor, and since 2000, the poverty rate of single mothers has risen.*at any time during the year.(Source by Congressional Research Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY RATES (75%); PARENTS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); HISTORY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); CHILD CARE (65%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%) Welfare (US); Welfare Recipients, Employment of; Women; Children and Youth; Law and Legislation ; Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Robert Pear; Erik Eckholm; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



409 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela, Tired of U.S. Influence, Strengthens Its Relationships in the Middle East

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jens Erik Gould contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Venezuela has long cultivated ties with Middle Eastern governments, finding common ground in trying to keep oil prices high, but its recent engagement of Iran has become a defining element in its effort to build an alliance to curb American influence in developing countries.
 In a visit late last month to Tehran by President Hugo Chavez and his oil minister, Rafael Ramirez, the two countries agreed to produce jointly nearly a dozen products, including crude oil and medicines. In a further sign that their ties have taken on a new dimension, the two countries are speaking in a more unified voice in their criticism of Israel and the United States.
 The strengthening of ties has turned Iran into Venezuela's closest ally outside Latin America, adding clout to Mr. Chavez's efforts within OPEC to increase revenue through output limits by oil-exporting countries. Venezuela has also become the most vociferous defender of Iran's nuclear program at a time when Iran feels increasingly isolated.
 ''We stand by Iran at every moment, in any situation,'' Mr. Chavez said in Tehran, where he received the golden High Medallion of the Islamic Republic from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Venezuela, Syria and Cuba were the only countries to oppose referring Iran to the United Nations Security Council at a meeting in February of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
 Though Venezuela maintains close economic ties with the United States, relations have been strained by verbal sparring between the Bush administration and Mr. Chavez. 
 Mr. Chavez has also shown recent interest in strengthening ties with Syria, sending his deputy foreign minister, Alcides Rondon, to Damascus last week. Mr. Chavez continues to push for tighter relations with close trading partners of the United States. He is scheduled to arrive in China on Tuesday for a six-day visit aimed at finding ways to ship more Venezuelan oil to Chinese refineries. He is also expected to visit Malaysia and Angola.
 Now, with Iranian investment in Venezuela climbing fast, what began as a trickle of ventures has evolved into the most vivid example of Venezuela's move to reshape its foreign policy and distance itself from the United States by reaching out to countries on the margins of American influence, including Belarus, Zimbabwe and Cuba.
 Hundreds of Iranian tractors are already rolling off an assembly line at a plant in Venezuela's interior, and Khodro, the Iranian car manufacturer, plans to produce 5,000 Samand sedans a year at factory near Caracas starting in November. 
 With Venezuela vying for a nonpermanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, the ties with Iran have led to additional friction with the United States.
 In testimony last month before the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation, Frank Urbancic Jr., the principal deputy coordinator for counterterrorism in the State Department, said Venezuela's close relations, including intelligence operations, with Iran and Cuba helped illustrate a ''near complete lack of cooperation'' with American efforts to fight terrorism.
 The Bush administration further irked Mr. Chavez last week by appointing J. Patrick Maher, a longtime Central Intelligence Agency official, to oversee intelligence-gathering operations on Venezuela and Cuba. A comparable post had existed previously only for Iran and North Korea. Mr. Chavez ridiculed the move and said he had captured four people accused of spying for the United States, though the American Embassy here said it had no knowledge of such apprehensions. 
 The Bush administration's more aggressive stance has drawn sharp rebuttals from officials here, who contend the United States is planning military action against Venezuela with an eye to controlling the country's petroleum resources, the largest conventional reserves outside the Middle East. 
 Petropars, the Iranian national oil company, said it could invest as much as $4 billion in petroleum ventures in Venezuela to produce crude oil and natural gas. ''We want to help them,'' said Mohammad Ali Talebi, a Petropars representative in Venezuela and director of a venture that may extract sulfur-laden heavy oil in an eastern region there. 
 Venezuela has also supported Iran's effort to price oil in euros instead of dollars, a move aimed at weakening the influence of American investment banks and hedge funds, and the creation of an oil exchange in Iran to trade such contracts.
 ''Geopolitically, the most important front for Chavez in the world at this moment is Iran,'' said Alberto Garrido, a historian who is writing a book on Venezuela's ties to Muslim countries. ''Chavez, together with his closest advisers, have defined the strategic alliance with Iran as a means with which to counter American power.''
 The ties with Iran have fueled theories among Mr. Chavez's fractious opponents -- though without any substantiation -- that Venezuela could be sending uranium from its Amazonas state to Iran in exchange for nuclear technology. There have also been unsubstantiated claims that Mr. Chavez wants eventually to replay the Cuban missile crisis.
 Venezuela has repeatedly said it has no plans to develop nuclear weapons. Mr. Chavez said in Tehran that he would support an effort to develop a nuclear energy program by Mercosur, the South American trade bloc that Venezuela recently joined.
 A strong relationship between Venezuela and Muslim countries is nothing new, dating to the formation of OPEC in Baghdad in 1960, largely the brainchild of a Venezuelan oil minister. An approximation with Iran may have gotten under way in the mid-1990's by Norberto Ceresole, an Argentine sociologist known for his anti-Semitic views who was a Chavez adviser. Mr. Chavez later distanced himself from Mr. Ceresole, who died in 2003. After Mr. Chavez was elected in 1998, he made relations with Iran a priority in his push for OPEC to raise oil prices.
 Recent statements by Mr. Chavez in Iran and other Muslim countries, however, are increasing concern here in Caracas that Mr. Chavez is aligning himself too closely with Muslim leaders who have little in common with Venezuela's generally inclusive and pluralistic political system. While in Qatar, Mr. Chavez said in an interview with Al Jazeera that Israeli military actions in Lebanon were ''being carried out in the style of Hitler, in a fascist fashion.''
 After the fighting between Israel and the Lebanese Hezbollah militia began, Mr. Chavez recalled his highest-ranking diplomat in Israel. Then, in his weekly television program, Mr. Chavez accused Israel of a ''new Holocaust.'' The authorities in Jerusalem responded by recalling Israel's ambassador in Venezuela, Shlomo Cohen, for consultations. 
 ''We have to categorically reject the comments for attempting to make the Holocaust banal,'' said Fred Pressner, president of the Confederation of Jewish Associations of Venezuela. But some Jewish leaders here also said earlier this year that comments by Mr. Chavez about the ''descendants of the same ones who crucified Christ'' were too hastily interpreted as anti-Semitic.
 Political analysts here said the comments about Israel and other recent moves, like the appointment of Nicolas Maduro as foreign minister, were evidence of a radicalization of foreign policy that had stronger ties with Iran at its center. Mr. Maduro, who has stepped down as speaker of the National Assembly to take the post, had traveled to Iran in February to show explicit support for its nuclear program.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, left, has strongly defended Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. (Photo by Behrouz Mehri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%); SEDANS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); RELIGION (51%) Foreign Investments; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (72%) Simon Romero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush; Rafael (Min) Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (92%); IRAN (90%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BELARUS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Venezuela; Iran; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



410 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: McCain Mines Elite of G.O.P. For 2008 Team 

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain is locking up a cast of top-shelf Republican strategists, policy experts, fund-raisers and donors, in a methodical effort to build a 2008 presidential campaign machine, drawing supporters of President Bush despite the sometimes rocky history between the two men.
 Mr. McCain's effort to woo a diverse lineup of backers and scare off rivals has augmented his travel schedule on behalf of Republicans -- which this week and next includes trips to Iowa, Louisiana, Virginia, South Carolina, Ohio and Florida.
The effort is fueling a fund-raising operation that has helped him build loyalty throughout the party by doling out more than $800,000 to candidates since the start of last year through his political action committee. 
 Other Republican presidential hopefuls are doing likewise, but Mr. McCain is widely judged to be farther along in assembling the kind of national network necessary to sustain a long, expensive campaign for his party's nomination to succeed President Bush. 
 At a point in the election cycle when policy positions may be less important than general impressions, the signal Mr. McCain is seeking to send to the Republican Party is that anyone who wants a place on his bandwagon should jump on now.
 ''We are a party that gravitates toward front-runners,'' said Rick Davis, who was Mr. McCain's presidential campaign manager in 2000.
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has long had a constellation of loyal friends and advisers, some of whom date to his years as a naval pilot and prisoner of war in Vietnam, not to mention his presidential bid in 2000. 
 But as he has tried to claim the mantle of Mr. Bush's natural successor, Mr. McCain has expanded his orbit to encompass supporters who have been part of Mr. Bush's circle, and others who have not previously backed the senator. 
 His still-informal network includes Richard L. Armitage, the former deputy secretary of state; John A. Thain, chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange; and Sig Rogich, who directed the advertising for the 1988 and 1992 presidential campaigns of Mr. Bush's father. 
 He is reaching out to Christian conservatives, who helped sink his 2000 presidential bid, by enlisting the aid of figures like Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah and former Senator Dan Coats of Indiana, both of whom have strong evangelical followings. 
 His growing kitchen cabinet spans an array of issues and backgrounds, and includes James Jay Baker, a former lobbyist for the National Rifle Association; Niall Ferguson, a historian at Harvard; and Barry McCaffrey, who was the drug czar under President Bill Clinton.
 There is as yet no formal policy council and no regular meetings of the McCain brain trust, aides said. They cautioned that the senator consults widely and that some of those enlisted as advisers or supporters might not play official roles in his campaign, if he decides to run. 
 Some figures listed as advisers by McCain aides, like Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state, have been silent in public about their preference, and it is not clear how involved they may become.
 Yet the scale and breadth of the list suggest how much time, effort and care Mr. McCain is investing in preparing for a presidential campaign, using the lessons of his race in 2000 and his subsequent effort to rally the party around him.
 There is a whiff of opportunism among those signing on early with Mr. McCain as loyalties begin to migrate from the president to those who would succeed him, and Mr. McCain's potential rivals for the Republican nomination are all scrambling to keep up with him in the hunt for money, expertise and ideological credentials. 
 Rudolph W. Giuliani's political action committee signed Anne Dickerson, who ran Mr. Bush's Pioneer and Ranger fund-raiser program. 
 Senator George Allen of Virginia has lined up Ed Gillespie, the former chairman of the Republican Party and a Bush backer; Mary Matalin, a close adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney and to the first President Bush; and Frank J. Donatelli, a consultant and former Reagan aide.
 And Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts is working with Ron Kaufman, who was a political adviser to the first President Bush and a major fund-raiser for the current president. 
 Mr. McCain is leading the effort to recruit big-name supporters, drawing on a deep vein of contacts from his 24 years in politics and two decades in the military. ''He has the most active cellphone known to the phone company,'' said John Weaver, his chief strategist.
 At this early stage, there is no sign of any battle for influence over policy or political strategy among Mr. McCain's supporters. The real power continues to reside in his longtime inner circle -- Mr. Weaver; Mr. Davis; and his Senate chief of staff, Mark Salter. They talk daily, even hourly, as they try to lock up talent, and they and a handful of close political advisers convene weekly conference calls with activists and fund-raisers.
 While Mr. McCain has been especially successful in signing up prominent Republicans who have close ties to Mr. Bush, some of his advisers differ among themselves or with the current administration's policies.
 Some of Mr. McCain's economic advisers, including Dan L. Crippen and Douglas Holtz-Eakin, both former directors of the Congressional Budget Office, have taken a harder line on budget deficits than has Mr. Bush. The group Mr. McCain consults on foreign policy includes neoconservatives like William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, as well as members of the so-called realist school of foreign policy thought like Brent Scowcroft and Mr. Armitage, who along with his former boss, Mr. Powell, battled the influence of neoconservatives in Mr. Bush's first term.
 Many McCain advisers and money people say it is easy to make the switch from Mr. Bush to Mr. McCain because they have always admired Mr. McCain, or because Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush agree on the things that really matter.
 Like the fund-raisers, some strategists and policy advisers who approach the McCain campaign seem willing to put aside longstanding concern among conservatives about Mr. McCain.
 Dan Schnur, who was communications director for Mr. McCain's 2000 presidential bid, said there were potential Republican candidates for 2008 who might be closer to Mr. Bush philosophically and politically than Mr. McCain is, citing Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas and Senator Allen. But neither has drawn the support of a sizable cadre of senior Bush advisers.
 ''There may be other candidates who are more logical stewards of the Bush legacy than McCain, but none of them is going to get elected president in 2008,'' said Mr. Schnur, who added that he did not expect to be involved in any McCain campaign. ''McCain may stray from the Bush line more than other candidates in the field, but none of them is going to be in a position in 2009 to do anything about it.'' 
 Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush have grown closer politically in the past few years because of a shared commitment to a decisive battle against terrorism and the insurgency in Iraq, although it is unclear if support for the war will win votes in 2008. 
 But differences remain on a number of issues, including government ethics, federal spending, stem cell research, climate change and treatment of terrorism suspects. Those divergences and any future splits could prove problematic for Mr. McCain, as well as for some of the Bush loyalists who have signed on with him or are considering doing so.
 Despite his past challenges to Mr. Bush, many who served in the president's campaigns or his administration are lining up behind Mr. McCain. 
 Among the more prominent members of the Bush team who said they expected to play a role in Mr. McCain's candidacy, if he chooses to run, are Mark McKinnon, a Texas political media consultant who has worked for Mr. Bush for years; Terry Nelson, political director of the Bush 2004 re-election campaign; Nicolle Wallace, that campaign's communications director; Wayne L. Berman, a Washington lobbyist, friend of Mr. Bush's and prolific fund-raiser; and F. Philip Handy, chairman of Jeb Bush's two races for governor in Florida and a major supporter of the president.
 Mr. McKinnon said that Mr. Bush and his chief strategist, Karl Rove, had been careful not to signal their preference among potential successors. ''That said,'' Mr. McKinnon added, ''I think a lot of people are surprised at the extent to which there has been rapprochement between the Bush and McCain worlds.''
 He said Mr. McCain's biggest challenge would be assuming the role of front-runner rather than free-speaking insurgent or underdog. ''He has to be the leader of not just a movement, but the party,'' Mr. McKinnon said. ''That's a whole different drill.''


Policy Advisers
Mr. McCain's aides listed an array of experts on foreign and domestic policy with whom he consults regularly. They cautioned that many on the list would most likely play no role in any McCain candidacy. Here are a few:

Domestic policy

Dan L. Crippen Director, Congressional Budget Office, 1999-Jan. 2003
Refused to experiment with ''dynamic scoring,'' to estimate the effect of tax cuts on economy.

Douglas Holtz-Eakin Director, Congressional Budget Office, 2003-Dec. 2005
Has criticized the administration's policy of tax cuts and increased mandatory spending as unsustainable.

Kevin Hassett -- Directs economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute
Economic adviser to Mr. Bush during his 2004 campaign and to Mr. McCain in 2000.

Advised Mr. McCain during his 2000 presidential campaign:
John A. Thain -- C.E.O., New York Stock Exchange
Lisa G. Keegan -- Arizona education official

Foreign Policy

1. Colin L. Powell -- Secretary ofstate, 2001-Jan. 2005
2. Richard L. Armitage -- Mr. Powell's deputy
(Both men battled the influence of neoconservatives, like Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, in Mr. Bush's first term.)

Brent Scowcroft -- National security adviser under first President Bush
Has long been critical of the current White House's foreign policy approach.

Co-founded the Project for the New American Century, an organization that promotes ''American global leadership.'':
Robert Kagan -- Neoconservative thinker and a columnist at The Standard
William Kristol -- Editor of The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine

(pg. A12)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, who is traveling the country for Republican causes, at the Iowa State Fair last week. (Photo by David Peterson/The Des Moines Register, via Associated Press)(pg. A12)Chart/Photos: ''Political Advisers''While Senator John McCain's team from his Senate campaigns and his 2000 presidential bid remains largely intact, many prominent members of President Bush's political team are expected to play a role in his candidacy.McCain's Inner circleJohn WeaverChief political strategistRick DavisRan Mr. McCain's 2000 campaignBill McInturffChief pollsterMike MurphyMedia strategistMark SalterMr. McCain's Senate chief of staff, co-author of Mr. McCain's books, and his speechwriterFrom the Bush teamMark McKinnonMr. Bush's media consultantNicolle WallaceCommunications director for the White HouseGerald L. ParskyCalifornia chairman for Mr. Bush's campaigns in 2000 and 2004Terry NelsonPolitical director of Mr. Bush's 2004 re-election campaignTom LoefflerA former Texas Congressman and a prime Bush fund-raiserWayne L. BermanLobbyist and a fund-raiser for Mr. BushRon WeiserAmbassador to Slovakia and a fund-raiser for Mr. Bush

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); HISTORY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); RELIGION (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Finances; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN THAIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DAN COATS (59%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%) John M Broder; John S (Sen) Mccain; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



411 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words

 BODY:

POTENTIAL CHAOS -- Barring an appeals court ruling, flight attendants at Northwest Airlines could begin a job slowdown at 9:01 p.m. on Friday. The union that represents them, the Association of Flight Attendants, said it did not plan a full-fledged walkout, but rather a strategy, aimed at specific jets and airports, that it calls Chaos, an acronym for ''create havoc around our system.'' The airline says it needs wage and benefit cuts from its 7,300 flight attendants to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 


ECONOMIC GEOGRAPHY LESSONS -- Many of the nation's economic cognoscenti will gather in Jackson Hole, Wyo., to hear Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, give the opening speech at the annual meeting of the Kansas City Federal Reserve. The conference is titled ''The New Economic Geography,'' and Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to talk about trends in global economic integration. (Friday)

QUATTRONE IN COURT -- A federal court judge in Manhattan has scheduled an appearance for Frank P. Quattrone, the former technology banker at Credit Suisse, who may have reached a deal with prosecutors to avoid a third trial on charges of obstructing justice. His first trial ended in a hung jury and the second with his conviction, which was overturned in March by a federal appeals court. That court ruled that the judge gave erroneous instructions to the jury. (Tuesday.)

DATA ON HOME SALES -- It will be a meager week for reports, but economists will get a good picture of the housing industry with existing home sales for July (Wednesday) and new home sales for July (Thursday). There will also be data on durable goods for July (Thursday).

SOME EARNINGS -- Company earnings reports are starting to tail off; this week's will include: Lowe's Companies (Monday); the Borders Group, Intuit and Toll Brothers (Tuesday); Eaton Vance, Payless ShoeSource, Phillips-Van Heusen and Smithfield Foods (Wednesday); Hormel Foods, Jackson Hewitt Tax Service and Williams-Sonoma (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); MISTRIAL (78%); JUDGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); GEOGRAPHY (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); EXISTING HOME SALES (69%); DURABLE GOODS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); LOWE'S COS INC (64%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (52%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (52%); PVH CORP (52%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (52%); INTUIT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (84%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (64%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); SFD (NYSE) (52%); PVH (NYSE) (52%); INTU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (64%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (64%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (52%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (52%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (52%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006



412 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; PROSPECTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Making Health Care the Engine That Drives the Economy

BYLINE: By Gina Kolata

 BODY:
Angus Deaton, an economist at Princeton, had a hip replacement last year. And while he was happy with the outcome, he wondered how much it had cost. 
 He got a few answers. His hospital room was $10,000 a day. ''Telephone and television were extra,'' he said.
As for the total cost , there were so many charges associated with one service after another -- anesthesia, pain management, physical therapy, the surgery itself -- that he was never able to figure out how much each of them cost. ''Maybe if I devoted my life to this for six months I could find out,'' Dr. Deaton said. ''The price that is paid is the price an insurer negotiates, and that is kept in a vault somewhere.'' 
 All he knows for sure is that insurers say they pay, on average, $50,000 for a hip replacement.
 Dr. Deaton's story is the sort that makes people cringe. The United States already spends nearly 16 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, and it is almost impossible to know where all that money goes. Projections are that health care will take up even more of the G.D.P. as the population ages and as more expensive drugs and medical devices are developed.
 But a new economic approach to health care expenditures views costs in a very different light. Economists agree that huge increases are coming. But some say that may be just fine. 
 By 2030, predicts Robert W. Fogel, a Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, about 25 percent of the G.D.P. will be spent on health care, making it ''the driving force in the economy,'' just as railroads drove the economy at the start of the 20th century.
 Unless the current system is changed, most health care costs will continue to be paid by insurance, especially Medicare, which means that the taxpayers will foot the bill. But Dr. Fogel says he is not alarmed. Americans can afford it, he says, because the nation is so rich. 
 ''It takes so little of household income to satisfy expenditures on food, clothing and shelter,'' he explains. ''At the end of the 19th century, food, clothing and shelter accounted for 80 percent of the family budget. Today it's about a third.'' 
 Other economists agree. 
 ''We have to spend our money on something,'' says Robert E. Hall, a Stanford University economist. 
 In a paper published in The Quarterly Journal of Economics, Dr. Hall and Charles I. Jones of the University of California, Berkeley, write: ''As we get older and richer, which is more valuable: a third car, yet another television, more clothing -- or an extra year of life?''
 David Cutler, an economist at Harvard, calculated the value of extra spending on medicine. ''Take a typical person aged 45,'' he said. ''They will spend $30,000 more over their lifetime caring for cardiovascular disease than they would have spent in 1950. And they will live maybe three more years because of it.'' 
 He added, ''Are you willing to do that? Yes, it costs a lot, but we're rich enough where the alternative use of the money isn't as valuable.'' Still, Victor R. Fuchs, also an economist at Stanford, notes that buying health care is fundamentally different from buying a television or a car. 
 ''Most of it involves transfers from the young to the old,'' he said. ''Down the road, most medical care will be for people over age 65, and most of the payments will be from taxes on younger people.'' 
 Dr. Fuchs calls it the restaurant check problem.
 ''You go out to a restaurant with a bunch of friends and you sort of understand that you will split the check,'' he said. ''The waiter comes along and says, 'The lobster looks very good, and how about a souffle for dessert?' The restaurant check balloons, but you are not so careful because you figure everyone is splitting it.
 ''That's the way medical care gets paid for,'' he said.
 Dr. Fuchs added, "We want to spend our money on the things that will bring the most value for the dollar. When we are spending collective money as we are in health care, then it becomes much more difficult.'' 
 The issue, he says, is not how much is being spent but whether spending more is the answer. Are those extra dollars buying marked improvements in health or are they making any difference?
 That, Dr. Deaton said, was the point of his exercise in trying to find out the cost of his hip replacement: ''Is it worth spending all this money on a hip replacement?'' 
 In London, he said, a hip replacement costs $:5,000, or about $9,500. 
 ''Don't you think people would prefer to have it for $:5,000?'' Dr. Deaton said. ''It is probably true that if we spent twice as much money on health care we'd be better off. But half the money we spend is wasted.''
 That, Dr. Hall pointed out, is an important issue. ''We all know that especially in Medicare, where more and more of the spending is going to occur, there isn't anybody who has responsibility for making sure the money gets spent well,'' he said. ''Some huge improvements will have to be made as the consequences of that waste get greater.''
 Still, the wasted money is, in a sense, a separate discussion, he said.
 The real questions for the future of medical spending, he said, are: ''Does it make sense in terms of how we value different things? What do people think a life is worth? And what do you get?''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)Graph: ''Health Care Spending''In the United States, as a share of gross domestic product.Graph tracks private share, public share
 includes Medicare and projected since 1965. (Source by Department of Health and Human Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); INSURANCE (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Life Styles; Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Research; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%) University of Chicago

PERSON: Gina Kolata; Robert W Fogel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



413 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Tower Records Will Auction Its Assets

BYLINE: By Dow Jones/AP

 BODY:
The parent company of Tower Records, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Sunday, is seeking to sell its assets through a court-supervised auction Oct. 5.
 The company, which operates 89 stores in 20 states and is owned by the privately held MTS Inc., said yesterday that it needed to close the sale by mid-October to prepare for the holiday shopping season, when it has about 32 percent of its annual sales. 
Tower said revenue fell to $430 million for the fiscal year ended July 31, from $476.1 million a year earlier. The company said intense competition had hurt its business and that of other music retailers.
 ''The brick-and-mortar specialty music retail industry has suffered substantial deterioration recently,'' Tower said in court papers. The company made its Chapter 11 filing in United States Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del.
 Industry observers say the chain could have a tough time finding a buyer willing to keep its brick-and-mortar stores operating in an industry increasingly dominated by online music sellers and big-box retailers.
 Phil Leigh, a senior analyst for Inside Digital Media Inc., said that the Tower brand had value and would find a buyer, but that its stores were not likely to survive this latest bankruptcy. The company emerged from another bankruptcy in 2004. ''I think they'll sell off the name and liquidate the inventory,'' Mr. Leigh said.
 Tower Records, however, said it had seen ''substantial interest among potential buyers'' and hoped to find a buyer willing to continue operating its stores. The company said it was actively negotiating with one potential buyer and had received another offer on the eve of its bankruptcy filing.
 It is ''absolutely our intention to keep the Tower brand alive,'' a spokeswoman, Lisa Amore, said.
 Russ Crupnick, a music and movies industry analyst for the NPD Group, said, ''It's kind of shocking how many pure-play music retailers have closed down in the time that we've been tracking the market.'' 
 Music-download retailers like iTunes from Apple Computer have played a major role in displacing traditional retailers. Nielsen SoundScan, cited by Tower in bankruptcy court filings, said legal digital downloads grew 200 percent in 2005 as album sales fell 7.8 percent. Data compiled by NPD Group ranked Tower as the No. 9 seller of physical music, including CD's, in 2002. In the first six months of 2006, it was tied for 12th, Mr. Crupnick said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Tower Records store in Los Angeles. Some analysts said the chain's retail outlets might not survive a sale to a new owner. (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); MUSIC STORES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); MUSIC (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (74%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); RANKINGS (63%) Music; Bankruptcies; Auctions; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Computers and the Internet; Computer Software

COMPANY: MTS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Tower Records; Mts Inc; Apple Computer Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



414 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2664 words

HEADLINE: Retirees Get Albany Attention, And New York City Gets the Bill

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
It began with a simple plea for equity, for the same deal that other unions had. It ended with thousands more former New York City employees getting expensive Christmas presents: bonus checks in each year of retirement that would eventually reach $12,000, all paid for by taxpayers. 
 The road to a new pension benefit that will eventually cost New York City an estimated $100 million a year began in 1995, when the city's correction officers decided that on top of their regular pensions, they deserved the ''Christmas bonuses.'' Retired police officers and firefighters already received such checks, and the correction officers reasoned that they should, too.
When the union asked for the money during contract negotiations, the city said no, saying it could not afford such largess. But the matter did not end there.
 The union turned to Albany. It endorsed Gov. George E. Pataki's 1998 re-election bid and gave state lawmakers and political parties $79,000 in campaign donations in 1999. Then, after more lobbying and contributions, it persuaded the City Council to ask the state to pass the bill. 
 That year a bill establishing the annual bonuses sailed through the Legislature. The Giuliani administration, disturbed about the city's being stuck with the cost, howled in protest, and both the city and state comptrollers and the governor's own budget division recommended a veto. But the governor signed the bill.
 Over the last six years, those checks have cost the city $60 million -- during a period when big budget gaps forced the city to lay off workers, close firehouses and raise taxes to balance its budget.
 The bill was hardly an aberration. At a time when many businesses are reducing or eliminating pension plans, Governor Pataki and the Legislature have approved billions of dollars in new pension benefits for government workers after lobbying from politically connected unions, an analysis by The New York Times of pension bills and campaign contributions shows.
 In recent years, the state decided to let city auto mechanics retire at age 50 with full pensions. It allowed the city's 911 operators and urban park rangers to retire after 25 years of service, even if they are still in their 40's. It passed laws decreeing that heart disease be considered a job-related ailment for correction officers, emergency medical technicians and sanitation workers, qualifying more workers for lucrative disability pensions equal to three-quarters of their salary, all exempt from state and local taxes.
 The state also gave death benefits to people who had quit their city jobs before retirement age, enabling survivors of people who left the city work force to collect payments, often in the tens of thousands of dollars, when their spouses die.
 Some city workers are entitled by state law to pensions that are too big even to be allowed under federal Internal Revenue Service regulations. So in 2004, citing ''the numerous new plans and benefit improvements'' that allowed city workers to retire earlier with bigger pensions, the state passed a law allowing the city to set up a special fund to pay those workers the difference between what the federal government allows for their pensions and what the state says they are owed.
 The enhancements come even as some calculations by the city suggest that its pension funds, which officially appear to be nearly fully funded, may in fact have a combined shortfall of as much as $49 billion.
 Many of these expensive pension promises were made over the strong objections of the city. Albany's power to dictate pension costs that the city must pay infuriates mayors and puzzles pension experts.
 ''In any structure when the people who are making those decisions are not financially accountable for the impact of those decisions, by definition it will not be prudent,'' said John Por, the president of Cortex Applied Research, a firm that advises both public and private pension plans.
 Mayors have complained about the system for decades. ''It's outrageous,'' said Edward I. Koch, who was forced by the state to spend millions more on pensions when he was mayor. ''The municipal unions own the State Legislature.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said on Monday that the city's official method for calculating the value of its pensions, which shows that they are close to fully funded, and an alternate method that shows a shortfall of $49 billion, both seem ''very rational methods'' to him. And he said that while the city is careful to fund its pensions, the enhanced benefits awarded by the state all involve trade-offs.
 ''If we enhance the pension system, then we can't afford to pay as much in salaries,'' the mayor said. ''If we enhance the pension system and salaries, we can't afford to have as many employees or to provide as many services. And that's what everybody is unwilling to face.''
 The move towards more expensive pension benefits is not a partisan one. Governor Pataki, a Republican who ran for office in 1994 on a conservative platform of cutting government spending, approved many of the enhancements, and in the process won the support of labor unions, which helped him get re-elected twice even though New York is an overwhelmingly Democratic state. In the Legislature, the bills are championed not only by the Democratic-led Assembly, but also by the Republicans who lead the State Senate, who increasingly rely on campaign contributions of labor unions to help them retain their slim majority. 
 Aides to Governor Pataki said that he made the decision to improve certain pension plans on the merits, and that he had not been influenced by campaign contributions, endorsements or political considerations. And they noted that he has vetoed nearly 200 pension bills since 1995.
 ''Since taking office, Governor Pataki has consistently protected taxpayers and vetoed nearly 95 percent of the more than 200 broad pension bills that the Legislature has sent to his desk,'' said Michael Marr, a Pataki spokesman. ''In those isolated instances when the governor did sign a particular pension bill, he did so after carefully weighing both the bill's merits and its fiscal impact.''

Turning to Albany
 In the past, unions frequently sought improved pension benefits during contract negotiations with the city. If they reached an agreement, both sides sought state legislation setting the agreed-on benefits. 
 It still works that way, sometimes. But increasingly, in cases where unions fail to get what they want during negotiations with the city, they are doing what is known in Albany as an end run around the city, lobbying state officials to win richer pensions.
 Some unions are so big that they represent voting blocs unto themselves. Smaller unions have established their power in other ways: by endorsing candidates, by providing ground troops during campaign season and, especially, by donating large sums to state officials and their political parties.
 Take the recent proliferation of ''heart bills.'' The city's police and firefighters have long had the bills, which declare that heart disease should be presumed a job-related disability, enabling workers with heart disease to get tax-free accidental disability pensions worth three-quarters of their final salaries. (High-ranking chiefs have been known to retire with disability pensions for heart disease and then go on to earn six-figure salaries elsewhere.)
 In 1998, the politically connected correction officers won their own ''heart bill.'' Again, it was over the objections of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. ''There is no valid medical study that has confirmed that a police, fire or a correction officer's heart disease is a direct result of performance of duty,'' his office wrote. 
 There were more heart bills to come. In 2002, after the economy soured and the attack on the World Trade Center left the city facing large deficits, the union representing the city's emergency medical technicians sought one. The union contributed more than $70,000 to state officials. It endorsed Governor Pataki, who was running for re-election, and gave him $32,000. The bill passed, and the governor approved it over the protests of the city, which warned that more unions would demand the benefit.
 Sure enough, heart disease was declared a job-related condition for the city's sanitation workers two years later. Again, the city objected, complaining that the change would cost it $1 million a year. But unions representing sanitation workers gave more than $50,000 to state officials that year, including one check for $500 that was sent to the Senate Republican Campaign Committee on the day the Republican-controlled Senate sent the bill to the governor for his signature.
 Heart disease is not the only ailment that is increasingly presumed to be job-related for pension purposes. In 1997 the state passed a law declaring that hepatitis, H.I.V. and tuberculosis should all be considered a line-of-duty disability for correction officers. The city warned that the police and firefighters would also want the benefit.
 They were right again. The state made the ailments job-related disabilities for police officers and firefighters in 1999. The city complained that shifting the burden of proof from government workers, who previously had to prove that their ailments were contracted in the course of official duty, to the city, which would now have to prove that they were not, would make disproving such claims nearly impossible. 
 ''The employee has only to prove that he or she may have been exposed to the bodily fluid of a person under the care of the employee,'' the city wrote in its objection. ''It will be virtually impossible for the city of New York to disprove the presumption and assert that the condition was not contracted in the line of duty. This is particularly true in the case of H.I.V., where it would be illegal for the city to test for the presence of the disease prior to hiring a police officer or firefighter.''
 Patrick Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, wrote to the governor urging him to sign the bill. ''Since police officers are required to pass a physical examination upon entry into service, and to follow lifestyles that would preclude their contracting H.I.V., tuberculosis or hepatitis, it is reasonable to presume that by far the most likely cause of contracting one of these diseases would be coming into contact with an infected individual in the course of performance of duties,'' he wrote.

An Expensive Year
 By far the biggest increases in pension benefits came at the end of the stock market boom in the late 1990's. The city's pension funds are heavily invested in the stock market, and the boom sent the funds soaring, which emboldened unions to seek better pension benefits and state and city officials to grant them. 
 The most expensive year was 2000, when Albany, even as the dot-com bubble was already bursting, approved billions in benefit enhancements, citing the soundness of the city's pension investments. 
 It provided automatic annual cost-of-living adjustments for retirees, which are extremely rare in private business. It eliminated or reduced the contributions many employees had made to their pension funds, at a cost of $269 million a year for the city.
 That measure was supported by Mayor Giuliani, who seized on the recent stock market gains to drastically reduce the city's investment in its pension funds.
 The cost-of-living adjustments had long been championed by H. Carl McCall, the Democratic state comptroller, who was preparing to run for governor. Governor Pataki, the Republican incumbent, was preparing to run for a third term in 2002. He agreed to the idea, one of many union-pleasing actions that helped him win much of the labor support that Democrats typically counted on. 
 The bill called for raising pensions as much as $540 a year, depending on the rate of inflation. But altogether, the long-term cost to the city was pegged at $8.4 billion. The Giuliani administration won an agreement to phase in its increased contribution to the pension plans over five years.
 Governor Pataki's budget division insisted that the annual cost-of-living adjustment, known as the COLA, was affordable. ''The COLA is affordable due to the excellent financial condition of the retirement systems and reasonable limitations included in the benefit design,'' the budget division wrote in support of the bill.
 Then the stock market plummeted, the World Trade Center was attacked and the city's pension fund investments lost billions. The Bloomberg administration won permission to take another five years to phase in the payment for the increases. 
 The governor's budget division, which had called the program ''affordable'' in 2000, noted just two years later that ''the city's fiscal situation has changed'' and cited ''downward trends in the stock market and increases in pension benefits.'' (This year the city agreed to end the phase-in, and begin paying what it owes for the increases.)

The Bonuses Grow
 It was the city's desire to invest more heavily in stocks in the late 1960's that first led to the annual bonus checks it sends to retired police officers and firefighters and, now, correction officers. 
 Although pension benefits are guaranteed by the State Constitution -- which means that taxpayers must pay them even if their funds are wiped out in the markets -- the police and fire unions argued that their members should be rewarded for allowing the city to invest their pension funds in riskier, but potentially more lucrative, stocks. 
 The unions got the city to agree to use its stock earnings above a certain amount to pay extra benefits to retirees. Initially, the payouts depended on how well the investments did. But the bonuses became fixed annual payments in the 1980's, increasing by $500 each year, after the unions agreed to let the city use some of the money to close its budget gap. 
 The bonus payments -- soon to reach $12,000 a year -- had an unintended consequence after Sept. 11, 2001. Many police officers worked a great deal of overtime that year, pushing up the base from which their pensions would be calculated. On top of that, each year they worked was a year they would not get the bonus payments, which were then $9,000 a year. Many police officers felt they could not afford not to retire. 
 So, to try to retain veteran officers at a crucial period, the state took action: it allowed officers eligible for retirement to bank their bonus payments while continuing to work, and to collect them after they retired. The solution cost an estimated $40 million a year.
 The correction officers, though, do not now have the same guarantees that they be paid each year. (Their guarantees do not start until 2019.) So retirees get paid only if the stocks perform well enough to keep their fund -- known in Albany as the skim fund -- flush. There was enough to pay the first six years of benefits, but with around $34 million left in their fund, there is not quite enough to pay retirees the $11,500 they were expecting this December.
 There are, however, bills pending in Albany that could help them. One would simply guarantee the next payment, while the other would allow the next payment to be less than the scheduled $11,500.
 So far, the City Council has not asked Albany to take action, and neither bill has passed the Legislature. But it could always resurface when lawmakers return to Albany this fall. All 212 seats in the Legislature are up for election in November.

Costly Promises
 This is the third article in a series examining actions of state and local governments that have left taxpayers with large unpaid bills for public employee pensions. The series focuses on ways in which pension funds have been shortchanged by government officials even as they have sought to enhance benefits for groups of politically influential workers. Other articles in this series are available at nytimes.com/nyregion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Seabrook, left, president of the correction officers' union, in 2000 with Gov. George E. Pataki and Representative Rick A. Lazio. (Photo by Robert Mecea/Associated Press)(pg. B6)Chart/Photos: ''A Decade of Pension Sweeteners''Each year the state passes bills ordering New York City to improve the pensions of city workers -- often over the city's objections. Here are some of the pension sweeteners that were approved by the State Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki, at a cost of billions for the city:2005World Trade Center WorkersEstablishes a legal presumption that city workers who responded to the Sept. 11 attack and the ensuing cleanup operations, and who later developed a variety of ailments including cancer, became sick on the job and because of their job. Entitles them to disability pensions worth 75 percent of their salaries. Estimated cost: $53 million a year.2004Correction CaptainsMakes it easier for captains to retire with full pensions after 20 years on the job. Estimated cost: $2.1 million a year.Heart Bill for Sanitation WorkersEstablishes a legal presumption that sanitation workers who get heart disease became ill on the job, entitling them to pensions worth 75 percent of their salaries. Estimated cost: $1 million a year.Excess Benefit FundCreates a fund to pay extra benefits to city retirees who are entitled to richer pensions than are permissible under Internal Revenue Service regulations. Estimated cost: $3.5 million a year.2003Urban Park RangersLets urban park rangers retire with benefits after 25 years, regardless of age. Estimated cost: The state said employee contributions would cover it
the city warned that there would be a cost in the early years of the program but did not provide a figure.Auto MechanicsAdds auto mechanics to the list of ''physically taxing positions'' whose workers can retire at 50 as long as they have 25 years of experience. Estimated cost: None, the state says
''sure to generate additional costs,'' the city says.911 OperatorsAllows 911 operators to retire after 25 years on the job regardless of their age. Estimated cost: None, says the state
 some, says the city.2002Police and Fire Retirement Bonuses for Active WorkersAllows police officers and firefighters who choose not to retire after 20 years of service to start banking annual retirement bonuses -- worth $9,000 then, and rising to $12,000 -- that they can collect when they eventually retire. The measure was intended to avert a rash of retirements after the Sept. 11 attack. Estimated cost: $39.9 million a year.Disability Pensions For Sanitation WorkersGives sanitation workers tax-free disability pensions worth three-quarters of their final salaries, just as the city does with police officers and firefighters. Estimated cost: $6 million a year.Correction DepartmentEliminates contributions for some members. Estimated cost: $3.9 million a year.Heart Bill for Emergency Medical TechniciansEstablishes a legal presumption that emergency medical technicians who get heart disease became sick on the job, entitling them to pensions worth 75 percent of their salaries. Estimated cost: up to $500,000 a year.2001Police Supplement FundGives superior officers better supplemental benefits. Estimated cost: $9.6 million a year.Clerical Workers and OthersReduces contributions to their pensions. Estimated cost: $9 million a year.Correction OfficersAllows more officers to opt for a plan that lets them retire after 20 years. Estimated cost: $6 million a year.Sanitation WorkersAllows more sanitation workers to opt for a plan that lets them retire after 20 years of service, and reduces employee pension contributions for some members. Estimated cost: $3.5 million a year.2000Annual Cost-of-Living AdjustmentProvides for annual pension increases tied to the rate of inflation, worth up to $540 a year per worker. Estimated cost: $903 million a year.Worker Pension ContributionsEliminates pension contributions for workers in the later pension plans after 10 years of service. Estimated cost: $269 million a year.Final Police and Fire SalaryAllows police officers and firefighters in later pension plans to calculate their pensions based on one year's salary, instead of the average of three years, making it easier to use overtime to increase pensions. Estimated cost: $67 million a year.Increased Take-Home PayGives police officers more in salary to offset their pension contributions, returning it to the level paid before the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's. Estimated cost: $59 million.Death BenefitsImproves death benefits for police officers. Estimated cost: $11 million.Early RetirementReduces the penalty for workers who retire before age 62. Estimated cost: $13 million a year.Pension CeilingsRemoves the cap on some pensions. Estimated cost: $9 million a year.1999Police and Fire IllnessesEstablishes a presumption that police officers and firefighters who contract tuberculosis, hepatitis or H.I.V. did so as a result of an accident in the course of their duties, entitling them to disability pensions worth 75 percent of their salaries. Estimated cost: $2 million a year.Correction Officer BonusesEstablishes bonus checks, eventually $12,000 a year, for retired correction officers. Estimated cost: eventually $100 million a year.1998Improvements for WorkersIn Later Pension SystemsAllows workers in Tier 4 to accrue pension benefits faster, allowing some workers who retire early, after 20 years, to get pensions worth 40 percent of their salaries, up from a third of their salaries. Estimated cost: $77 million a year.Preretirement Death BenefitGives a death benefit to people who leave government before retiring. Estimated cost: $7.7 million a year.Shorter VestingAllows government workers to be vested in pension plans after 5 years on the job, instead of 10. Estimated cost: $8 million a year.Cost-of-Living IncreaseAdjusts retirement benefits to help keep up with inflation. Estimated cost: $116 million a year.Heart Bill for Correction OfficersCorrection officers with heart disease are presumed to have gotten it on the job, entitling them to tax-free pensions worth three-quarters of their salaries. Estimated cost: $3.6 million.1997Correction Officer IllnessesRecognizes hepatitis, tuberculosis and H.I.V. as line-of-duty disabilities for correction officers, and increases their disability pensions to 75 percent of their final salaries. Estimated cost: $1 million.1995Cost-of-Living IncreaseIncreases pensions to keep up with the cost of living. Estimated cost: $99 million a year.(Sources by Legislative bills, New York City mayor's office, Governor's Budget Division.)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); VETO (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CITIES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); PARAMEDICS (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Organized Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Surveys and Series; Law and Legislation 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



415 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: A Welfare Law Milestone Finds Many Left Behind

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Over the last five years, Mysheda Autry has received welfare checks and food stamps, gone through a welfare-to-work program and briefly held several jobs. She has also given birth to her second and third children. 
 Ms. Autry, 25, with a 10th-grade education, was finally overwhelmed by the demands of work and family, and in February she showed up at the People's Emergency Center, a social service agency, with her three children, a fourth on the way, no job and no place to live.
She has exceeded the usual five-year limit for receiving welfare, and although the state has given her a reprieve, her benefits will be cut off, she has been warned, if she does not resume full-time job-skill classes and a job search within eight and a half months after her new baby is born.
 As political leaders give two cheers on Tuesday for the 10th anniversary of the welfare reform law that helped draw many single mothers from dependency into the work force, though often leaving them still in poverty, social workers and researchers are raising concerns about families that have not made the transition and often lead extraordinarily precarious lives. 
 These include mothers who, so beleaguered by personal problems and parenting that they have not been able to keep jobs, continue to need counseling and cash. They also include another large group of poor mothers -- one million by some estimates -- who are neither working nor receiving benefits.
 The central idea of the nation's public assistance programs since 1996 has been that cash aid should be only a temporary support while parents are ushered into jobs, with skills training and child-care subsidies to help. The federal government set a time limit of five years for individual recipients, though exemptions were allowed for hardship cases, and states could extend aid with their own money.
 Simply cutting families off at an arbitrary date has often proved impractical, because a significant group of mothers like Ms. Autry -- no one has precise numbers -- have not been able to hold on to jobs, even after attending required classes and while receiving other aid. 
 Their lives are simply too troubled by disabilities, turmoil and, often, bad personal choices, researchers say. Poor education, lack of support from their families or their children's fathers, mental health and drug problems, and unstable living conditions are common among this group, and a rigid time limit may only harm the children. 
 ''There aren't so many mothers who could never get on track, but getting them into work will take a lot more time and resources than many states have been able to provide,'' said LaDonna A. Pavetti, a welfare researcher with Mathematica Policy Research.
 Without such extra attention, more will join a growing group of poor families, known to scholars as the ''disconnected,'' that are scraping by without either cash benefits or employment.
 According to new calculations by the private Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, as of 2003, the last year for which detailed data are available, about one million single mothers were neither working nor receiving cash benefits from welfare, disability or unemployment insurance and were not living with a partner who had any of these income sources either. 
 Other studies suggest that 10 percent to 20 percent of mothers who left the welfare rolls in the years after the 1996 overhaul did not have work or other significant means of support a year or two later. 
 While some have sources of unreported income -- a little money from a new companion, perhaps -- and many are helped by food stamps, their children are often growing up in the poverty and tumult that the reforms were intended to end. 
 On Friday, days before her new baby was due, Ms. Autry described her life's obstacles so far.
 She, five brothers and a sister grew up with a mother who split from Ms. Autry's father early on and was on welfare. After Ms. Autry became pregnant in the 10th grade and dropped out of school, she continued living in a crowded, tumultuous house filling with babies. She had to move out last February, however, when her mother moved to a smaller home that she now shares with two sons, the other daughter and that daughter's two children. 
 The father of Ms. Autry's 6-year-old boy is out of the picture, as is the father of the girl whose birth is imminent. The father of her 3-year-old girl and her 21-month-old boy is in prison. 
 After the birth of her first child, she worked at McDonald's for several months. But she could not stand it, she said, when the boy started referring to her mother as Mom.
 She went into a jobs program, working 20 hours a week at a Y.M.C.A. with her wages paid by the welfare office and spending an additional 10 hours a week in a required search for permanent work. Eventually she landed a receptionist's job at a construction company where she worked for seven months.
 ''I just couldn't manage the child care,'' she said, though the state offered aid. At the time, her mother, who had been the prime caregiver, had herself been required to go into a work program. 
 For the last two years, Ms. Autry has received cash welfare benefits of $496 a month, plus $397 in food stamps. She has vowed to have no more children and to get her G.E.D. With no apparent drug or alcohol problem or serious cognitive drawbacks, she is in a better state than some other women lagging on welfare. 
 ''We see families coming in who don't have one monolithic problem; instead it's a lethal combination of 10 issues in their lives that come together,'' said Gloria M. Guard, president of the People's Emergency Center, where Ms. Autry and her children found shelter. ''They end up with lots of kids, no family support, no education, no coping skills, so they get a job and lose it and get another job and lose it. It's not like they are lying around not doing anything: their lives are constantly on the go as they run behind their kids. But they end up falling way behind.'' 
 Pennsylvania has been among the more generous states, Ms. Guard said, in allowing exemptions from time limits and working with mothers who show a willingness to try. But the services to help such women have been hurt by federal budget cuts, she said, and welfare agencies are under new federal pressure to get more women into jobs.
 Ms. Autry and her children are living in a one-room ''transitional apartment'' at the emergency center. She may soon move into a larger efficiency apartment within the graduated system of the center, where, contrary to her current circumstances, she will have to shop and cook for herself and get the children to school or the doctor on her own -- practice for a bigger move. 
 ''Sooner or later she'll have to get a job,'' Ms. Guard said. 
 A possibility, once Ms. Autry gets some training, may be work as a home health aide.
 But ''the real problem,'' Ms. Guard said, ''is how is she going to keep it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Today is the 10th anniversary of the law intended to wean poor women off welfare. But Mysheda Autry and her children are struggling. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); PARENTING (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%) Welfare (US); Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Law and Legislation; Women; Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: Center for Budget and Policy Priorities

PERSON: Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



416 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Other Roads To Security for Israel

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Testing Time for Israel's Leaders'' (editorial, Aug. 19):
 You say Israel ''cannot afford to show weakness,'' and its survival crucially depends on its military success. But historically, one-sided military triumphs led Israel into more war and bloodshed, whereas wars that ended in a perceived tie were more conducive to making peace. 
It was Egyptians' belief in their victory in 1973 that made possible the most important peace treaty Israel has ever signed. And it was the failure to achieve military victory in the intifada that convinced most Israelis that they must accept a two-state solution to the Palestinian problem. 
 By contrast, the mythological triumph in the Six-Day War in 1967, and the euphoric hubris in its wake, brought about the worst mistakes in Israel's history: the inability to prepare for the bloody Arab revenge war of 1973 (so much for unconditional military victory as deterrent); and the disastrous drive to settle in the occupied territories. 
 So while it is doubtful that a lackluster campaign against a small guerrilla force can truly threaten the existence of Israel, its peaceful future may crucially depend on showing at least some weakness. 

Dror Wahrman
Bloomington, Ind., Aug. 19, 2006

The writer is a professor of history at Indiana University.

To the Editor:
 You state that in the face of Hezbollah's provocations, ''Israel cannot afford to show weakness.'' But Israel compounded its isolation, not by showing ''weakness'' but by destroying up to 30,000 residences, displacing a million people, killing hundreds of civilians, and crippling the infrastructure of its neighbor.
 If Lebanon were not Israel's implacable enemy before, it almost certainly will be now. When will Israel learn to make peace with the peoples with whom it is obliged to coexist? 

Frank J. Messmann
Falmouth, Mass., Aug. 19, 2006

To the Editor:
 You say: ''Given the implacable hatred of its enemies, Israel cannot afford to show weakness. But it is even more important that whatever it does is done successfully.'' Yes on both counts. 
 Some suggestions for Israel: 
 Hire Palestinian day laborers to work on reconstruction of the ruins caused to Israeli homes and public buildings by the Hezbollah missile offensive. This will take approximately one year.
 Publicly state that Palestine be supported as a viable state with a viable economy and secure borders.
 Support Palestinian vocational schools and business schools, so that Palestinian youth can look forward to supporting themselves and their future families.
 Work cooperatively to share such fresh water as is now available from the Jordan River and other sources. 
 Encourage development of Gaza International Airport and the building of a Gaza deep seaport.
 Why the emphasis on the Palestinian economy, when Lebanon and Hezbollah are the issues at hand? Because the Palestinian economy is where the ultimate answer to Israel's security lies.

(Rev.) A. Karl Boehmke
Clayton, Mo., Aug. 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); WRITERS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); BORDER CONTROL (63%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); AIRPORTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%) Hezbollah

PERSON: Dror Wahrman; Frank J Massmann; A Karl (Rev) Boehmke

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (79%) Israel; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



417 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Public Pensions in Trouble

 BODY:
Public employee pension plans are a financial time bomb in many states and localities. Now New York City's independent actuary says his calculations suggest a potential future shortfall of up to $49 billion. 
 That's a staggering figure. The Bloomberg administration, which has raised the city's annual contributions to the pension funds, disagrees wholeheartedly. The mayor and his aides say their own number-crunching shows near fully funded obligations. All taxpayers can conclude right now that they need -- and deserve -- a longer and more informed conversation on this issue, involving the comptroller and the City Council as well.
Unlike private business, public pension funds have no uniform standard for reporting, making the potential for confusion -- and misinformation -- enormous. But for all the complications of the pension issue, there is one simple, obvious, outrageous part of the problem that is easy to explain. The governor and the State Legislature have been utterly irresponsible in expanding the city's obligations without providing any money to pay the additional cost. 
 Leaders from both political parties in Albany love to throw large, meaty bones to municipal labor unions in return for election-year support. Six years ago, they decided to give current and future pensioners annual cost-of-living adjustments, instead of a set annuity not tied to inflation. By the time the change is fully phased in 2010, that change alone will require New York to add $822 million to its pension contributions, according the city's nonpartisan Independent Budget Office. 
 Neither that nor other special benefits, like annual Christmas bonuses for pensioners costing tens of millions every year, were negotiated in collective bargaining. It was much easier for the unions to do an end run around the system and simply buy the benefits with campaign contributions and political support. And no one, obviously, asked the city if it could afford to pay the bill. The city, in fact, argued long and loud that it couldn't. No one cared.
 New York is certainly not alone in wrestling with pension burdens. But the sheer size of its work force, with 180,000 municipal retirees and a quarter-million current employees, makes it a useful harbinger of the coming financial storm for governments, local, state and federal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MAYORS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CHRISTMAS (66%) Editorials; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



418 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: How We Ended Welfare, Together

BYLINE: By Bill Clinton. 
Bill Clinton, the 42nd president, heads the Clinton Foundation.

 BODY:
TEN years ago today I signed the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act. By then I had long been committed to welfare reform. As a governor, I oversaw a workfare experiment in Arkansas in 1980 and represented the National Governors Association in working with Congress and the Reagan administration to draft the welfare reform bill enacted in 1988. 
 Yet when I ran for president in 1992, our system still was not working for the taxpayers or for those it was intended to help. In my first State of the Union address, I promised to ''end welfare as we know it,'' to make welfare a second chance, not a way of life, exactly the change most welfare recipients wanted it to be. 
Most Democrats and Republicans wanted to pass welfare legislation shifting the emphasis from dependence to empowerment. Because I had already given 45 states waivers to institute their own reform plans, we had a good idea of what would work. Still, there were philosophical gaps to bridge. The Republicans wanted to require able-bodied people to work, but were opposed to continuing the federal guarantees of food and medical care to their children and to spending enough on education, training, transportation and child care to enable people to go to work in lower-wage jobs without hurting their children. 
 On Aug. 22, 1996, after vetoing two earlier versions, I signed welfare reform into law. At the time, I was widely criticized by liberals who thought the work requirements too harsh and conservatives who thought the work incentives too generous. Three members of my administration ultimately resigned in protest. Thankfully, a majority of both Democrats and Republicans voted for the bill because they shouldn't be satisfied with a system that had led to intergenerational dependency. 
 The last 10 years have shown that we did in fact end welfare as we knew it, creating a new beginning for millions of Americans. 
 In the past decade, welfare rolls have dropped substantially, from 12.2 million in 1996 to 4.5 million today. At the same time, caseloads declined by 54 percent. Sixty percent of mothers who left welfare found work, far surpassing predictions of experts. Through the Welfare to Work Partnership, which my administration started to speed the transition to employment, more than 20,000 businesses hired 1.1 million former welfare recipients. Welfare reform has proved a great success, and I am grateful to the Democrats and Republicans who had the courage to work together to take bold action.
 The success of welfare reform was bolstered by other anti-poverty initiatives, including the doubling of the earned-income tax credit in 1993 for lower-income workers; the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, which included $3 billion to move long-term welfare recipients and low-income, noncustodial fathers into jobs; the Access to Jobs initiative, which helped communities create innovative transportation services to enable former welfare recipients and other low-income workers to get to their new jobs; and the welfare-to-work tax credit, which provided tax incentives to encourage businesses to hire long-term welfare recipients. 
 I also signed into law the toughest child-support enforcement in history, doubling collections; an increase in the minimum wage in 1997; a doubling of federal financing for child care, helping parents look after 1.5 million children in 1998; and a near doubling of financing for Head Start programs. 
 The results: child poverty dropped to 16.2 percent in 2000, the lowest rate since 1979, and in 2000, the percentage of Americans on welfare reached its lowest level in four decades. Overall, 100 times as many people moved out of poverty and into the middle class during our eight years as in the previous 12. Of course the booming economy helped, but the empowerment policies made a big difference. 
 Regarding the politics of welfare reform, there is a great lesson to be learned, particularly in today's hyper-partisan environment, where the Republican leadership forces bills through Congress without even a hint of bipartisanship. Simply put, welfare reform worked because we all worked together. The 1996 Welfare Act shows us how much we can achieve when both parties bring their best ideas to the negotiating table and focus on doing what is best for the country. 
 The recent welfare reform amendments, largely Republican-only initiatives, cut back on states' ability to devise their own programs. They also disallowed hours spent pursuing an education from counting against required weekly work hours. I doubt they will have the positive impact of the original legislation. 
 We should address the inadequacies of the latest welfare reauthorization in a bipartisan manner, by giving states the flexibility to consider higher education as a category of ''work,'' and by doing more to help people get the education they need and the jobs they deserve. And perhaps even more than additional welfare reform, we need to raise the minimum wage, create more good jobs through a commitment to a clean energy future and enact tax and other policies to support families in work and child-rearing. 
 Ten years ago, neither side got exactly what it had hoped for. While we compromised to reach an agreement, we never betrayed our principles and we passed a bill that worked and stood the test of time. This style of cooperative governing is anything but a sign of weakness. It is a measure of strength, deeply rooted in our Constitution and history, and essential to the better future that all Americans deserve, Republicans and Democrats alike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); PARENTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%) Welfare (US); Law and Legislation; Welfare Recipients, Employment of; Women; Welfare (US)

PERSON: Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



419 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: New Commissioner Faces a Fiery Baptism

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
One by one, the owners of the National Football League trickled out of a ballroom two weeks ago, a new commissioner elected, and a new round of politicking about to begin. As their limousines idled outside, the owners sent a pointed message to one another and to the players union, and made clear that Roger Goodell's honeymoon as commissioner might not last long. 
 They want a revenue-sharing solution, the owners said, and they are increasingly unhappy with the collective-bargaining agreement they negotiated five months ago, which they say gave too much revenue to players.
The owners were stating the obvious. The rest of Goodell's agenda as commissioner -- international growth, new media, a team in Los Angeles -- can go nowhere until the complex money issues are resolved. 
 The conversations that will lead to a revenue-sharing resolution are likely to further irritate the already prickly relations between officials from the league's high-revenue teams and its low-revenue teams, some of whom have been particularly vocal in their displeasure with the agreement.
 ''The very first resolution in Roger Goodell's tenure will alienate him from everyone,'' said an executive from one low-revenue team, who was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about his team's position on the deal. ''Nobody will express happiness with it.''
 In a gathering with reporters yesterday, the outgoing commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, said he had told Goodell, who was closely involved in the negotiations of the new contract, to learn as much as he could about how the new collective-bargaining agreement would work. 
 Tagliabue also sounded a warning for owners who have already started complaining that they cannot live with the deal. 
 ''Anyone who thinks they understand the economics of the current labor deal is either uninformed or kidding you because until they get through the first year or the first two years, no one's going to understand the economics of this deal because it's a new deal,'' Tagliabue said. 
 The arguments are not new. Several owners of high-revenue teams have said they should not be penalized for their ability to make money from local sources, and on occasion they have even referred to revenue sharing as writing ''welfare checks'' to owners who, in some cases, do not exhaust all means of increasing their own local revenue. 
 In addition, owners who have new stadiums -- which are usually linked to explosive growth in revenue for franchises -- point to the enormous debt they have taken on to build them. 
 But owners of low-revenue teams believe their very existence and certainly their competitiveness, will be threatened if they do not receive enough from the revenue-sharing pot. 
 As unhappiness festers, some owners and team executives have mentioned the possibility that owners could choose to exercise their right to opt out of the labor deal in November 2008. That would force the owners and the players union back to the bargaining table to avert a season played without a salary cap, and a potential work stoppage.
 ''The way things are now, it would be very difficult to continue this agreement,'' said Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots. ''Hopefully, we're wise enough to tweak this arrangement. It's like government. If you want to do Great Society programs, you have to have a great economy. If you want to have it be win-win, you have to grow the business.''
 The collective-bargaining agreement calls for players to receive 59.5 percent of total revenue, which many owners now say is too much. Some concede that the union was able to get that much because owners had not resolved their own divisions over revenue. 
 The agreement also included a new plan for the sharing of some locally generated revenue. That plan calls for the 15 teams with the highest revenue in the league to contribute money to a pool that would then be distributed to teams with lower revenue. 
 That pool would be about $100 million to $150 million each season, only about 2 percent of total revenue in a league that is generating more than $6 billion a year. For low-revenue teams, their portion of the revenue sharing pie is a critically important part of their budget planning. At issue is which teams will get how much money from the pool, and the criteria that a team must meet to get their revenue-sharing check. 
 Owners had hoped to have the matter settled by now. The league has hired the consulting firm McKinsey & Company to study revenue sharing and to analyze how each franchise exploits local revenue streams -- like stadium-naming rights, luxury suites, in-stadium advertising -- within the constraints of its community. That will help determine which teams deserve how much money. McKinsey was also hired to dial down the rancor between owners. 
 ''There's nobody that can't field a competitive team now,'' said the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson. ''There might be a time where teams should be helped. The whole success of the league depends on the 32nd team being able to win the Super Bowl. How do you encourage risk-taking? Because without risk-taking you have no growth. But if teams take risk, they have to have assurances that they'll get their money back. How do you balance that in a way that is fair?'' 
 The salary cap is intended to keep teams competitive by offering some restraint on the spending for players. According to Forbes magazine, the Washington Redskins, the team with the highest value, made $120 million more in 2004 than the Minnesota Vikings, the team with the lowest value. That extra revenue becomes most apparent in other spending: upgraded training facilities or higher pay for assistant coaches. Those are the things that low-revenue teams fear will erode their ability to compete. 
 The Buffalo Bills' owner, Ralph Wilson, one of only two owners who voted against the collective-bargaining agreement, has been one of the most outspoken critics of the deal and of the revenue-sharing plan. He has involved political leaders in his effort to draw attention to Buffalo's situation.
 In a letter obtained by The New York Times, Tagliabue sought to assure State Senator George D. Maziarz that the Bills could be successful under the new deal. 
 ''In recent years, the Bills have had revenues at levels that have enabled them to avoid heavy dependence on special C.B.A.-related revenue sharing; the only distribution to the Bills in the current decade was $481,000 in 2003,'' Tagliabue wrote in a letter dated Aug. 10. 
 For the sake of budget planning, the revenue sharing plan needs to be in place by the end of the regular season. 
 Goodell is likely to have support from a core group of moderate, in revenue and in temperament, owners, including the Giants' John Mara and the Steelers' Dan Rooney. Goodell's task will be to persuade high-revenue owners like Kraft and Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys to buy into a revenue-sharing plan, and then to draw a few of the low-revenue owners into the fold. 
 Twenty-four of the 32 owners must approve a revenue-sharing plan and if they do not, the commissioner can decide himself. And even then, the labor deal will almost certainly have to be tweaked, at least to avoid the owners' opt-out.
 ''What the changes are, I don't think you can sit here today and say what they're going to be until you understand how the deal works,'' Tagliabue said of the new deal. ''So anyone's who's declaring it either dead or alive is, like I say, either uninformed or at best premature.''
 Carmen Policy, the former president of the Cleveland Browns, recalls negotiating with Goodell about the price that would be paid by Al Lerner for the expansion team. Lerner asked for a discount on the fee but Goodell told him no. 
 ''He was merciless,'' Policy said with a laugh. ''Out of the left side of his mouth, he's telling you he loves you and you'll be the best owner. And out of the right side he's saying, 'All you have to do is pay the most money.' ''
 Goodell will need that guile now. Kraft said Goodell's easy personal style was disarming but should not be mistaken for him being a pushover. Owners will test him soon.
 ''He's put 25 years of sweat equity in to get there,'' Kraft said. ''Be careful what you wish for.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The first thing on Roger Goodell's agenda as commissioner will be a compromise on revenue sharing. (Photo by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS REVENUES (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%) Football

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%)

PERSON: Judy Battista; Roger Goodell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



420 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Mother, Courage, Grief And Song

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
If you ever wanted to watch one willowy human being lift a 12-ton play onto her shoulders and hold it there for hours, even as her muscles buckle and breath comes short, join the line of hopefuls waiting at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park for cancellations to see Meryl Streep burning energy like a supernova in the title role of Bertolt Brecht's ''Mother Courage and Her Children.'' 
 This production in search of a tone, which runs through Sept. 3, is not great, to put it kindly. Nor is Ms. Streep's performance, dazzling though it is, on a par with her best work.
 Yet with ''Mother Courage,'' which opened last night in a Public Theater production directed by George C. Wolfe, the ever-surprising Ms. Streep has achieved what, to my knowledge, is a first in her virtuosic career. Ms. Streep is that rare chameleon movie star who never just plays variations on her own personality. You don't leave ''Sophie's Choice'' or the current ''Devil Wears Prada'' confusing the haunted concentration camp survivor or icy fashion editor onscreen with the actress who portrays them. 
 But embodying a tireless entrepreneur of the Thirty Years War -- determined to survive with her business and family intact, whatever the cost -- Ms. Streep so blurs the lines between Meryl and Mother that for once it is hard to distinguish the dancer from the dance.
 For what Ms. Streep does onstage is pretty much what Mother Courage does on the battlefield: thinking fast on her feet, moving with the quick diversionary gestures of a boxer in the ring, pulling out every art and craft at her considerable command to keep alive an enterprise -- in this case, a notoriously difficult play that goes on for more than three hours -- that otherwise might collapse altogether. 
 Ms. Streep rattles through her character's business transactions and homespun philosophy on practical morality and economics with the souped-up patter of a Catskills stand-up artist who fears her act will go dry if she ever slows down. Mr. Wolfe's interpretation, cued by the jocular and uneven new translation by Tony Kushner, emphasizes the gallows vaudeville of a play that has an all-too-reverberant relevance in these days of war.
 Picking up on this barbed make-'em-laugh spirit, Ms. Streep's line readings recall comics as far-flung as Lucille Ball, Sophie Tucker, Henny Youngman and -- in the ''heh-heh-heh'' chuckles with which she fills nervous pauses -- Beavis and Butthead. Heck, there are times when she appears to be channeling all the Marx Brothers at once. She even adopts, to bizarrely appropriate effect, Groucho's bent-kneed catch-me-if-you-can walk. As for how she looks in her military cap and boots, think of Marlene Dietrich, playing down the glamour to entertain the troops. 
 For a connective tissue of credibility, the actress throws in vintage Streep-isms, including the folksy verbal and physical punctuations of the repeated, affirmative ''yep'' and frequent nose-wipings. And when the script approaches tragic terrain -- when Mother Courage's children bite the dust -- Ms. Streep provides a master class in the art of electrified stillness.
 Do these elements cohere into a fully integrated and affecting portrait? No. The performance becomes a seamless, astonishing whole only when Ms. Streep sings the Brechtian songs that have been newly (and effectively) scored by Jeanine Tesori. 
 But when a smitten army chaplain (Austin Pendleton) observes, ''Often I sit back and watch you, amazed,'' he is speaking for the entire audience at the Delacorte. By rights, ''Mother Courage'' should open for Ms. Streep the same future in advertising endorsements that awaits grand-slam sports champions. I, for one, would love to know what vitamins she takes and how to get them.
 As for the rest of the production, well, you can see what the brilliant Mr. Wolfe is going for and speculate on what he might have achieved with more time. ''Mother Courage,'' written in 1938 and 1939 and first performed in 1941, is one of those great plays that almost never play great -- at least, not in English. 
 The necessary combination of detachment and engagement is as hard as anything in modern theater to get right. (The National Theater's current production in London of Brecht's ''Life of Galileo,'' directed by Howard Davies and starring Simon Russell Beale, comes close.)
 Mixing ingredients from the music hall, the lecture hall, the beer hall and the melodrama, Brecht's epic theater is by design disjunctive. The design elements here -- especially Riccardo Hernandez's battered wooden framework of a set and Paul Gallo's focus-shifting lighting -- establish the right come-hither, pull-away tone. 
 But there has to be an equal consistency of style among the cast members (who here include no less a star than Kevin Kline in a supporting role) -- the feeling that they are all working toward the same end, O comrades of the arts, as they step in and out of the action, shifting among dialogue, monologue, songs and authorial annotation.
 Such solidarity of spirit isn't much in evidence at the Delacorte. Even the performers playing Mother Courage's three grown children -- Frederick Weller, Geoffrey Arend and Alexandria Wailes -- appear to have emerged from different acting schools. Some of the cast members, especially those playing military figures, seem to have been inspired by the cartoonish warmongers of the film ''Dr. Strangelove.'' Others, like Mr. Pendleton, go for an ''I'm like you'' naturalism, pitched complicitly at the audience. 
 As the libidinous army cook, Mr. Kline, who has appeared memorably with Ms. Streep before, seems to be performing by rote, as if he were still waiting for an inspired approach to tap him on the shoulder. And Jenifer Lewis, as the wily camp follower Yvette, often plays her role as if she were doing a broad-stroke Madea movie comedy (she has appeared in one). But Ms. Lewis also provides one of the high points that reclaim your attention just when the Thirty Years War starts to seem like the Hundred Years War. Her interpretation of Yvette's bitter song of remembered love is a stunningly calibrated blend of smoothness and harshness, of filigree irony and primal emotion, that suggests what Brecht was trying to achieve. (Ms. Tesori, the composer of Mr. Kushner's ''Caroline, or Change,'' demonstrates admirable skill and confidence as a musical mix master, and the show's band is first-rate.)
 To an even greater degree, Ms. Streep finds her best Brechtian self in song. ''The Song of the Great Capitulation,'' which Mother Courage sings at the end of the first act, is one of the most artful and intense musical performances to be found on a New York stage, as Ms. Streep flutters, fights and wallows her way through her character's philosophy of life.
 Desperation, cynicism, passion that should have died long ago but still flickers against the odds: all this is implied in every gesture, every note. For one luminous moment, you understand what this play is meant to be. By the way, with every song she sings, Ms. Streep suggests that, in addition to endorsing vitamins, she could become a queen of the Broadway musical, should she ever choose.

Mother Courage and Her Children

By Bertolt Brecht; directed by George C. Wolfe; translated by Tony Kushner; original music by Jeanine Tesori; sets by Riccardo Hernandez; costumes by Marina Draghici; lighting by Paul Gallo; sound by Acme Sound Partners; projection design by Batwin + Robin Productions; flight effects, Flying by Foy; orchestrations, Bruce Coughlin; music director, Kimberly Grigsby; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press; conductor, Chris Fenwick; production stage manager, Rick Steiger; managing director, Michael Hurst; associate artistic director, John Dias; associate producers, Peter DuBois, Heidi Griffiths and Mandy Hackett; director of production, Ruth E. Sternberg. Oskar Eustis, artistic director; Mara Manus, executive director; Shakespeare in the Park, presented by the Public Theater at the Delacorte Theater, Central Park; (212) 539-8750. Through Sept. 3. Running time: 2 hours, 30 minutes.

WITH: Meryl Streep (Mother Courage), Frederick Weller (Eilif), Geoffrey Arend (Swiss Cheese), Alexandria Wailes (Kattrin), Kevin Kline (Cook), Austin Pendleton (Chaplain) and Jenifer Lewis (Yvette).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Meryl Streep as Mother Courage in Brecht's ''Mother Courage and Her Children,'' in a version directed by George C. Wolfe. (Photo by Michal Daniel)(pg. E1)
Jenifer Lewis, left, as a worldly-wise camp follower, and Meryl Streep as Mother Courage
 the Public Theater production, through Sept. 3, is part of Shakespeare in the Park. (Photo by Michal Daniel)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); DANCE (77%); DANCERS (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); THEATER (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater (NYC)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (92%) Ben Brantley; Bertolt (1889-1956) Brecht; Meryl Streep

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



421 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Newsstand Magazine Sales Fell In the First Six Months of 2006 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
American newsstands sold fewer magazines in the first half of 2006 compared with the period a year ago, as some markets were saturated with too many offerings and others had to compete with the Web. 
 Newsstand sales of magazines fell more than 4 percent, to about 48.7 million copies, in the first half of 2006, according to preliminary figures provided by magazine publishers to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
Among domestic newsweeklies, Time magazine reported the biggest fall in newsstand sales, a drop of 24 percent. 
 The magazine, published by the Time Inc. division of Time Warner, plans to move its publication day to Friday from Monday to attract more readers on the weekend and increase sales.
 Samir Husni, chairman of the journalism department at the University of Mississippi, said magazine sales had fallen because many readers were spending more time on the Internet, and because of a thicket of similarly themed titles. 
 ''In a country where you have 22 magazines telling you about shoes, you know that all 22 magazines can't have a circulation of a million,'' Mr. Husni said.
 John Harrington, a newsstand sales analyst and publisher of The New Single Copy newsletter, said a softer retail market contributed to the downturn.
 ''There are fewer trips to the store, and magazines rely on impulse sales at retail,'' Mr. Harrington said.
 Overall magazine circulation was 378.9 million copies for the six months ended June 30, up 2 percent from the year-earlier period, according to the audit bureau's data.
 The gain was helped by new magazines that are distributed free, including magazines that are distributed in bulk or are inserted in other publications.
 Some celebrity weeklies also drew more readers. US Weekly's circulation jumped 7.2 percent, to about 1.8 million copies, while circulation at People magazine, published by Time Inc., rose about 1.2 percent, to 3.8 million copies.
 Paid subscriptions fell nearly 4 percent, compared with the same period last year, after the audit bureau required publishers to start counting copies sent to doctors' waiting rooms and other public places in a different category.
 Total subscriptions were about flat compared with the same period last year.
 Among domestic newsweeklies, Time magazine reported a 1.2 percent rise in circulation, to more than four million copies. Newsweek, which is owned by the Washington Post Company, reported a 1.8 percent drop, to about three million, while U.S. News & World Report rose 0.6 percent, to about two million.
 The Economist, which has been trying to attract more readers in the United States, reported a 14.8 percent rise in American circulation to a little more than 600,000 copies.
 The circulation of Martha Stewart Living rose 3.9 percent, to two million.
 Circulation at O, The Oprah Magazine, published by the Hearst Corporation, fell 10.9 percent, to 2.3 million, and newsstand sales fell 19.5 percent. The magazine has raised prices and considers last year's newsstand sales a fluke because of promotion to celebrate its fifth anniversary, Jessica Kleiman, a Hearst spokeswoman, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSSTANDS (93%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); AUDITS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%) Magazines; Sales; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: TIME INC (93%); HEARST CORP (84%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%) Audit Bureau of Circulations

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



422 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: IN ELECTION PUSH, BUSH FAULTS TALK OF IRAQ PULLOUT 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
President Bush seized on Monday on Democratic calls for withdrawal from Iraq to make an election-year case that his political rivals did not properly understand the threats to the nation and would create a more dangerous world. 
 It was the most direct attack on Democrats that Mr. Bush has made from a White House lectern this election year, and it effectively signaled the beginning of a more outright political season for him and his aides as they work to help Republicans maintain control of Congress.
The appearance offered a preview of the themes the White House and Republicans will use this fall during their most daunting electoral challenge of Mr. Bush's presidency, with continued voter dissatisfaction over the course of the war, the high price of gasoline and the president's overall job performance.
 Democrats have pointed to polls showing that public support for the war continues to wane, and the president acknowledged as much on Monday. 
 ''These are challenging times, and they're difficult times, and they're straining the psyche of our country,'' Mr. Bush said in an hourlong news conference. ''Nobody wants to turn on their TV on a daily basis and see havoc wrought by terrorists.''
 Analysts from both parties have called the war the biggest political liability facing the Republicans this year. Mr. Bush's political aides have urged fellow Republicans to embrace the conflict, and Mr. Bush seemed to go a step further, suggesting that he hoped the midterm elections would be fought over rival approaches on Iraq.
 ''What matters is that in this campaign that we clarify the different points of view,'' Mr. Bush said from the press secretary's lectern in the White House conference center up the street from the Oval Office. ''And there are a lot of people in the Democrat Party who believe that the best course of action is to leave Iraq before the job is done, period, and they're wrong.''
 In calling the opposition the ''Democrat Party'' Mr. Bush was repeating a truncated, incorrect version of the party's name that some Democrats have called a slight, an assertion the White House dismissed as ridiculous. Either way, it was the president as political strategist whom television viewers got a glimpse of Monday, with Mr. Bush laying out what he believed Republicans should focus on this election year and rehearsing an argument that used Iraq as a foil, by contending that the early withdrawal advocated by some Democrats would embolden terrorists everywhere.
 Democrats have sought to stoke public displeasure with the war, and they seized on Mr. Bush's remarks about Iraq as evidence that he was choosing to stay with a failed policy.
 ''The president's promise to keep American forces in Iraq as long as he is in office is no substitute for an effective plan to complete the mission,'' Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, said in a statement, referring to Mr. Bush's promise that ''we're not leaving so long as I'm president.''
 Ms. Pelosi added, ''Democrats believe it's time for a new direction in Iraq, with responsible redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq that begins this year.''
 The dissatisfaction over the war now extends to some Republican officeholders who supported the American invasion of Iraq in 2003 but now express displeasure with the execution of the war. 
 Mr. Bush acknowledged that ''sometimes I'm frustrated'' about the continuing violence in Iraq, even though that impression is one that some around the president have sought to play down in recent days. But Mr. Bush also said that he was sometimes ''happy'' over progress in Iraq, and that while concerned about the prospect of civil war, he believed the Iraqis would work for unity.
 Mr. Bush appeared generally upbeat, occasionally rocking back and forth behind the lectern as he fielded questions. The White House announced the 10 a.m. news conference less than two hours before it began. It acted after recent weeks in which some of Mr. Bush's conservative supporters had argued that his Iraq campaign might need adjustment.
 The Iraq war and the buildup to it helped fuel Republican victories in 2002 and 2004, but polls now show that a majority of Americans have doubts about progress in Iraq.
 The White House and Republican Party officials have argued that the Iraq war remains potent politically for Republicans when they cast it as part of the broader war on terror, though they have sometimes found it difficult to make that case.
 When Mr. Bush referred to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on Monday in reference to a question about Iraq, a reporter pressed him, ''What did Iraq have to do with that?''
 ''Nothing,'' Mr. Bush responded somewhat testily, adding, ''Nobody has ever suggested in this administration that Saddam Hussein ordered the attack.''
 Leading up to the invasion in March 2003, Vice President Dick Cheney did call attention to the theory, since discredited, that one of the Sept. 11 hijackers might have met in Prague with an Iraqi intelligence officer.
 In general, however, Mr. Bush struck a different tone than the vice president has used in recent weeks, including Mr. Cheney's suggestion two weeks ago that Ned Lamont's victory over Senator Joseph I. Lieberman in the Connecticut Democratic primary might embolden ''Al Qaeda types.''
 In response to a question, Mr. Bush said Monday that the administration's message was that leaving Iraq would embolden terrorists, but he added, ''We'll continue to speak out in a respectful way, never challenging somebody's love for America when you criticize their strategies or their point of view.''
 Strategists on both sides have pointed to Iraq as a major drag on the president's popularity, which in turn has been a drag on his party. Just two weeks ago, a close White House ally, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said in an interview on Fox News, ''I wish the president's approval rating were better than it is, and that's not a plus for us.''
 In a follow-up interview on Monday, Mr. McConnell played down that remark, saying Republicans would ultimately maintain control of Congress in November by highlighting Democratic flaws.
 Mr. Bush said the party could also score points on tax cuts and the economy. As for flagging support for the war in Iraq, he said, ''Presidents care about whether people support their policies,'' and acknowledged, ''Of course I care.''
 But, he added, ''I'm going to do what I think is right, and if people don't like me for it, that's just the way it is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Nobody wants to turn on their TV on a daily basis and see havoc wrought by terrorists,'' President Bush said at his news conference. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A17)
 President Bush taking a question at a news conference yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%) Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



423 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Corruption? Bring In the Conservatives.

BYLINE: By THOMAS FRANK. 
Thomas Frank is the author, most recently, of ''What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America.'' He is a guest columnist during August.

 BODY:
In the lexicon of American business, ''cynicism'' means doubt about the benevolence of market forces, and it is a vice of special destructiveness. Those who live or work in Washington, however, know another variant of cynicism, a fruitful one, a munificent one, a cynicism that is, in fact, the health of the conservative state. The object of this form of cynicism is ''government,'' whose helpful or liberating possibilities are to be derided whenever the opportunity presents.
 Remember how President Reagan claimed to find terror in the phrase, ''I'm from the government and I'm here to help''? Or how the humorist P. J. O'Rourke won fame by declaring that even the proceedings of a New England town meeting were a form of thievery? 
The true scoffer demands sterner stuff, though, and in the cold light of economic science he can see that government is not merely susceptible to corruption; government is corruption, a vile profaning of the market-most-holy in which some groups contrive to swipe the property of other groups via taxation and regulation. Politicians use the threat of legislation to extort bribes from industry, and even federal quality standards -- pure food and so on -- are tantamount to theft, since by certifying that any product in a given field won't kill you, they nullify the reputations for quality and goodness that individual companies in the field have built up at great expense over the years.
 The ideas I am describing are basic building blocks of the conservative faith. You can find their traces throughout the movement's literature. You can hear their echoes in chambers of commerce across the land. But what happens when you elevate to high public office people who actually believe these things -- who think that ''the public interest'' is a joke, that ''reform'' is a canard, and that every regulatory push is either a quest for monopoly by some company or a quest for bribes by some politician? What happens when the machinery of the state falls into the hands of people who laugh at the function for which it was designed?
 The obvious answer is an auctioning-off of public policy in a manner we have not seen since the last full-blown antigovernment regime held office, in the 1920's. Agencies and commissions are brazenly turned over to campaign contributors; high-ranking officers of Congress throw grander and gaudier fund-raisers even after being arraigned; well-connected middlemen sell access for unprecedented amounts.
 What really worries me, though, is that our response to all this may be to burrow deeper into our own cynicism, ultimately reinforcing the gang that owns the patent on cynicism and thus setting us up for another helping of the same. This may not be apparent now, with the identity of the culprits still vivid and the G.O.P. apparently heading for a midterm spanking. Recall, though, that while the short-term effects of the Watergate scandal were jail sentences for several Republicans and the election of many Democrats to Congress in 1974, its long-term effect was the destruction of public faith in government itself and the wave that swept in Ronald Reagan six years later.
 In the absence of a theory of corruption that pins the tail squarely on the elephant, this is certainly what will happen again. Conservatives are infinitely better positioned to capitalize on public disillusionment with the political system, regardless of who does the disillusioning. Indeed, the chorus has already started chanting that the real culprit in the current Beltway scandals is the corrupting influence of government, not conservative operatives or their noble doctrine. The problem with G.O.P. miscreants is simply that they've been in D.C. so long they've ''gone native,'' to use a favorite phrase of the right; they are ''becoming cozy with Beltway mores,'' in The Wall Street Journal's telling. If you don't like the corruption, you must do away with government.
 Were he not the main figure in all this, Jack Abramoff would undoubtedly be nodding in agreement with those editorials. A self-described ''free-marketeer'' who spent his days fighting ''government intervention in the economy'' and leading the catcalls at Tip O'Neill, he would undoubtedly have seen the political gold beneath the scandals. If, in our revulsion at Abramoff's crimes, we are induced to accept Abramoff's politics, it will be K Street's greatest triumph yet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BRIBERY (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EXTORTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); FUNDRAISING (65%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (63%) United States Politics and Government; Election Issues; Public Opinion

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Thomas Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



424 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Lowe's Profit Rises, but Warning Hurts Shares

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., Aug. 21 

 BODY:
The Lowe's Companies reported an 11 percent increase in second-quarter profit on Monday but warned that a slowing housing market would hurt its earnings for the rest of the year, setting off a 4 percent decline in its stock price. 
 Lowe's reported income of $935 million, or 60 cents a share, up from $839 million, or 52 cents a share, a year earlier.
Sales in the period, which ended Aug. 4, rose more than 12 percent, to $13.39 billion, from $11.93 billion last year, slightly ahead of Wall Street estimates. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.3 percent.
 During the quarter Lowe's gained market share for flooring, appliances, outdoor power equipment and cabinets, the company said, citing third-party estimates.
 But orders for new homes have slowed in recent periods and sales of existing houses are slowing from record levels, putting pressure on sales at Lowe's and its larger rival, Home Depot. Increased gas prices have also affected business, Lowe's chief executive, Robert Niblock, said.
 ''Near-term pressures on the U.S. consumer have led to a more cautious outlook for the balance of the year,'' Mr. Niblock said in a prepared statement.
 David S. Strasser, a Banc of America Securities analyst, wrote in a report about Lowe's quarterly report: ''We believe the home improvement sector is facing significant headwinds as housing turnover slows and interest rates rise.''
 Stock in Lowe's, which is based in Mooresville, N.C., fell $1.17, to $28.35 a share.
 In a conference call with analysts, company officials said they were encouraged by continued low home mortgage rates and improving employment rates in the Midwest and elsewhere in the country.
 ''We remain very optimistic about the long-term opportunities in these markets,'' Mr. Niblock said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Flexon assisted Alyce McNeil as she shopped for a washer yesterday at a Lowe's in Queensbury, N.Y. The company said yesterday that it gained market share for appliances and flooring in the second quarter. (Photo by Michael Fein/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HOME REMODELING (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Company Reports ; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (97%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Lowe's Companies

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (97%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (97%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A NIBLOCK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (68%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



425 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: In Lebanon, Even Peace Is a Battle

BYLINE: By Carlos Pascual and Martin Indyk. 
Carlos Pascual, the vice president for foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, was the State Department's coordinator for reconstruction and stabilization from 2003 to 2005. Martin Indyk, the director of Brookings's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, was the assistant secretary of state for Near East affairs from 1997 to 2000.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
VICTORY in the latest war in Lebanon will not be won on the battlefield, but in the race between Hezbollah and the Lebanese government to rebuild homes and lives. Despite President Bush's pledge yesterday of an additional $230 million for reconstruction, Hezbollah is far out front. The international community will need to get $1 billion into Lebanon now, raise $2.5 billion more over three years, and stimulate $5 billion in private investment to enable the Lebanese government to demonstrate that it, not Hezbollah, can build a peaceful and prosperous society. 
 Six principles should guide this reconstruction effort. 
The first is speed. An emergency donors' conference should have already been convened. An international fund needs to be created with procedures for fast, audited disbursement. It is important that there be just one trust fund, with one set of rules for all donors, or more time will be spent on the bureaucracy of spending than on restoring economic activity. 
 The oil-rich Persian Gulf states should provide the bulk of the resources. They have a huge stake in ensuring that a ruined Lebanon does not now fall into the hands of Iran via its Hezbollah proxy. Iran is already financing Hezbollah's offer of $10,000 grants to pay for housing, furniture and family needs. Recognizing the challenge, Saudi Arabia pledged $500 million in reconstruction assistance. 
 But the United States needs to do even more, more quickly. Recall that tiny Kosovo, with half the population Lebanon, absorbed more than $2 billion after the 1999 conflict. Congress should make an emergency appropriation of an additional $500 million. And Israel, although it has its own reconstruction needs, should request that Washington temporarily reallocate some of its annual $2.3 billion in American military assistance to help the Lebanese government. 
 The second principle is to put the Lebanese government out front. If the ''root cause'' that President Bush has sought to address is the existence of Hezbollah's ''state within a state,'' then the cure is to replace the militant group's efforts with government programs to meet the needs of the mainly Shiite population of southern Lebanon and the southern suburbs of Beirut. 
 Some in Washington may balk at allowing nongovernmental groups to work in municipalities that have elected officials from Hezbollah. But it is exactly Hezbollah's political success in those areas that shows why the international community must present a visible and effective alternative in all parts of the south. 
 Doing so will require getting money and programs to the local level, where residents will know what is needed and possible. Aid groups like Mercy Corps, World Vision and Catholic Relief Services -- groups whose approaches have been well tested in other war-torn areas -- are ready to create family, business and community support programs to help rebuild local economies. But they will need some $100 million immediately from international donors to support these local efforts for the most affected 1.5 million people.
 The third principle is to use local capacity. Iraq taught us how not to rebuild: using international contractors that take months to get in place and spend perhaps a third of their budgets protecting themselves. Lebanon has world-class engineers and experience from rebuilding the country after its civil war. Lebanese and Arab contractors who employ local workers should be given priority. Of course, international donors will need to help the Lebanese government design streamlined procurement rules with external auditors. Again, let's learn from Iraq: payments should be based on results, not on level of effort. 
 The fourth principle is security. We concur with the urgent calls to deploy an international force in the south. But two other factors are key. One is to train and equip the Lebanese Army -- starting with the 15,000 Lebanese troops that will deploy to the south with the international force. Based on experience elsewhere, supporting them will cost at least $20,000 per soldier, about $300 million -- about seven times what Mr. Bush proposed. Fortunately, even before this conflict, the Pentagon had studied the modernization needs of the Lebanese military. This plan must be turned into action. 
 Another security requirement is to bolster the Lebanese civil police force so it can maintain order in areas now controlled by Hezbollah. The United States does not have much capacity in this area, but the European Union does -- and Washington should help pay. The Bush administration should tap two separate special authorities Congress provided in the 2006 budget for up to $300 million in emergency security transfers from the Defense Department budget. 
 A fifth principle is to make maximum use of the private sector. As they showed in recovering from civil war, the Lebanese are among the most entrepreneurial people on earth. Rather than having the West send huge amounts of food aid that can depress local markets, families should be given cash grants that will allow them to buy food. 
 Thinking big, donors should tap insurance companies and private banks to help Lebanese businesses. Here there is a positive lesson from Afghanistan, where the United States Overseas Private Investment Corporation has insured businesses for more than $1 billion. Imagine the potential in Lebanon if the United States, the European Union, and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation announced that they would insure $5 billion of new business activity. 
 And, finally, rescuing Lebanon will require patience and persistence. Among countries that managed to stop wars that were tearing them apart, some 40 percent were at it again within five years. A major reason is that international donors pull out too quickly, before reconstruction takes root. 
 Yet again, conflict between Israel and Lebanon has wrought immense destruction on both sides. A lasting peace will occur only if the Lebanese people come to see that their government is more capable than Hezbollah of providing them with security, dignity and hope for a normal life.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Raymond Verdaguer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (83%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%) Foreign Aid

COMPANY: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%) Hezbollah

INDUSTRY: SIC8322 INDIVIDUAL & FAMILY SOCIAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Carlos Pascual; Martin Indyk

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (70%) LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (70%) Lebanon; Israel; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



426 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Slow Start For Revival Of Reactors; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: Even the Utilities Differ Over Whether Nuclear Is the Energy Answer 

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Nobody in the United States has started building a nuclear power plant in more than three decades. Mayo A. Shattuck III could be the first. 
 As the chief executive of Constellation Energy, a utility holding company in Baltimore that already operates five nuclear reactors, Mr. Shattuck is convinced that nuclear power is on the verge of a renaissance, ready to provide reliable electricity at a competitive price. He has already taken the first steps toward achieving that, moving recently to order critical parts for a new reactor.
 But Constellation's neighboring utility, the PPL Corporation, takes a different view. Even though PPL has successfully operated two reactors since 1983, its chairman, William F. Hecht, said that he had no plans for new nuclear plants.
 When nuclear reactors were first commercialized almost half a century ago, every self-respecting electric utility wanted one. They were encouraged by a government that saw nuclear energy as a peaceful, redemptive byproduct of the deadly power unleashed at Hiroshima. The federal official for promoting nuclear energy, Lewis L. Strauss, said it would produce electricity ''too cheap to meter.'' 
 It has never given consumers anything like that. But with the industry now consolidated so that most reactors are in the hands of a comparatively few operators, utility executives are sharply divided over whether nuclear power offers an attractive choice as they seek to satisfy a growing demand for electricity.
 For them, the question comes down not so much to safety and environmental impact but to whether the potential reward is worth the financial risk. And those who already operate several reactors are prone to want more.
 The debate within the utility industry over reviving nuclear power has taken on added importance, though, because unlike plants that burn coal and other fossil fuels, reactors do not produce gases that contribute to global warming.
 And once again, Washington is encouraging utilities to push ahead. The summer of 2005's energy bill offered a generous production tax credit, insurance against regulatory delays and loan guarantees. Earlier legislation gave the industry money to help plan new plants. And they continue to benefit from a ceiling on liability damages in case of an accident.
 Despite nuclear power's promise as a clean energy source that could hold down emissions of global warming gases, most environmentalists are skeptical of the latest claims by its advocates. They say that utilities, at best, will move ahead with a handful of plants that will receive lavish incentives from the government. But the risks of nuclear power are still so high, they argue, that no utility will be willing to put its own money into building a plant unless the federal government heavily subsidizes it.
 ''What dismays me about the present situation is the extent to which the Congress and the administration, and now an occasional state legislature, have rushed to anoint it as the solution to climate change,'' said Peter A. Bradford, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and former chairman of the public service commissions of both Maine and New York. If nuclear plants cannot compete without subsidies, he said, they should not be built.
 Today, nuclear power supplies just under 20 percent of the electricity used in the United States. Its share has been slipping lately as new plants running on other fuels have come online.
 With the price of natural gas increasing, coal has emerged once again as the most popular way to generate electricity, a trend that -- if it continues -- is expected to lead to a significant rise in emissions of carbon dioxide. The utility sector emits about a third of the carbon dioxide produced in this country, nearly all of that from coal.
 Adding dozens more nuclear reactors to that mix could reverse the rise in carbon dioxide from the electricity-generating system, but its advance would also run up against certain limits.
 Nuclear plants cannot replace all of the fossil fuel used in power generation because current nuclear designs do not easily alter the power output. Plants running on natural gas and coal, by contrast, can adjust their output over the course of a day to match demand. 
 For a long time, the underlying confidence of utilities in nuclear technology was moot because the economics would not support a new reactor; all those ordered after 1973 were canceled. 
 But now, because of high prices for natural gas and uncertainty about how emissions from coal plants will be regulated in the future, the nuclear industry is moving from near death to the prospect that perhaps a handful of plants will be ordered in the next few years. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission counts 27 potential reactors under consideration; 103 are now operable. 
 For all the momentum behind the push, however, there is still a high degree of skepticism within the utility industry. 
 PPL, for example, has successfully operated two reactors in Berwick, Pa., for 23 years. But with some utilities around the country making preliminary moves or joining consortiums to explore new designs, PPL is absent.
 There are better places to put the money of shareholders, Mr. Hecht of PPL said. At the moment he sees a much greater advantage in cleaning up his coal-fired plants, investing $1.5 billion to scrub out most of the sulfur dioxide. That would not only benefit the environment but also generate pollution credits PPL can profitably sell. 
 That decision was ''dull and basic,'' Mr. Hecht said, but adheres to a paramount goal: maximizing shareholder returns. He won't rule out nuclear plants forever, Mr. Hecht said in an interview, but the business case would have to be a lot clearer than it is now. 
 ''Technology often has zealots, it seems, behind it,'' he said of companies moving forward on nuclear power. 
 By contrast, Constellation Energy not only wants to build reactors for itself, it also has formed a partnership with a reactor manufacturer to build and operate them for other utilities. 
 ''This organization has a history of feeling that they have done well in nuclear,'' Mr. Shattuck said. Constellation executives think that they ''can continue to do well in nuclear and shouldn't shy away from their responsibility.''
 Constellation plans to apply for a reactor-operating license by the end of 2007, probably at either the Calvert Cliffs site in Maryland where it runs two nuclear reactors built in the 1960's and 1970's, or at Nine Mile Point, in Scriba, N.Y., on Lake Ontario, where it operates two reactors it bought in 2001.
 Its decision has implications beyond the corporate bottom line for the global environment. There are also arguments over nuclear waste and the risk of accidents. Around New York City, especially, there is concern over reactors as terrorist targets.
 But the risk that really matters to utility executives is financial. Among the companies that would actually build these plants, executives focus more on uncertain factors like the future price of power, the cost of producing competing fuels, and the cost of cleaning up coal plants to meet standards for the pollutants that Washington does regulate -- sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and soot.
 At this point companies do not face any constraints on carbon emissions. 
 Companies that want to build -- among them Entergy, Dominion and Duke Energy -- talk about new designs intended to further reduce the risk of an accident and their ability to manage nuclear waste until the government eventually opens a national waste repository.
 Opponents often cite the risk of accidents and the problem of nuclear waste, but the companies that do not want to build say that those are not factors in their decisions. 
 When PPL builds a power plant, it usually sells the power first, and uses the signed contracts to reassure the investors and the bankers from whom it is seeking financing. ''I'm not going to build any large generation unhedged,'' Mr. Hecht said.
 But this is not easy with a nuclear plant. For one thing, Mr. Hecht said, no one could be sure when it would be finished. And despite the industry's efforts to shorten the time from order to completion, it could still be 10 years, he said. 
 ''If you build 1,000 megawatts,'' he asked, ''how are you going to find someone to buy it 10 years out, for 10 years after it is finished?''
 A nuclear plant ordered in 2007 could well turn out to be a more economical power source in 2020 than a coal plant ordered at the same time, he said, but the range of uncertainty is much larger. He is content to let others take the lead.
 Constellation Energy insists it is driving risk out of the proposition. Constellation, which doubled its nuclear bet in the 1990's by buying more reactors as the utility industry reorganized, contends that it has demonstrated one marketable skill -- running reactors profitably -- and that it could quickly follow a new plant with a copycat, building both on time and on budget. 
 Constellation has an expertise gained in the early, difficult years of nuclear power, Mr. Shattuck said, citing Michael J. Wallace, president of his company's generation division.
 ''Mike is the only executive in the utility sector today who was an executive responsible for building new nuclear plants last time around,'' he said. Mr. Wallace oversaw the construction and start-up of two nuclear plants built in Illinois: Byron, which fully entered commercial service in 1987, and Braidwood, the following year.
 Constellation proposes a fleet of plants, identical down to the ''carpeting and wallpaper,'' Mr. Shattuck said, reducing the design costs on subsequent reactors to near zero. Operating processes would be identical, and operators could be shuffled among the plants, something that is often impossible today even with adjacent reactors. The company wants partners that would offer either equity or operating skills. 
 Constellation has a partnership, called UniStar Nuclear, with Areva, the French-German company, which is owned by Framatome and Siemens, to build a model. One model is under construction in Finland. 
 ''A lot of it is establishing a model that mitigates risk as you move forward,'' Mr. Shattuck said. ''A lot of players out there haven't quite figured out how they're going to go to their boards and ask for $4 billion, for which I'll get cash flows in 13 years.''
 Last December, Constellation and FPL, parent of Florida Power and Light, announced that they would merge, creating the country's largest competitive marketer of power. That would put the company in an even better position to build new reactors, Mr. Shattuck said.
 Some experts, however, remain skeptical that new reactors should be built, although they acknowledge this is increasingly likely. In the last 20 years or so, said Mr. Bradford, the former regulator, utility restructuring has often shifted the risks of new construction from ratepayers to investors.
 ''What the Congress has done now, for the first six or so plants, is to find a third pocket,'' he said. ''Now they've called upon the taxpayer to pony up.'' 
 But even if a few plants are built, industry insiders do not expect nuclear power to assume a significantly greater role. Roger W. Gale, an electricity expert and former Energy Department official, asks several hundred utility executives each year what they foresee in their industry.
 While they are convinced that a new plant will be ordered soon, the more than 100 senior utility executives who responded also said they do not expect ''a future where nuclear generation represents a larger share of generation'' than today.

The Energy Challenge
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, second from right, visited the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Plant last year with Constellation Energy officials. (Pool photo by Dennis Brack)(pg. C1)
William F. Hecht, chairman of PPL, believes cleaning up coal-fired plants maximizes shareholder return better than building nuclear plants. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 Mayo A. Shattuck III, Constellation Energy's chief, is proposing a fleet of identical nuclear plants. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart/Map: ''New Plants on the Way?''A handful of utility companies have expressed interest in building new nuclear power plants. But none have made a firm commitment yet, and industry experts doubt that more than a few of the 27 possible new reactors identified by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will be built anytime soon. At least initially, any new reactors are expected to be added to existing nuclear power sites.Map of the United States highlights the following:103 CURRENTLY OPERATING REACTORS27 POSSIBLE NEW REACTORSAPPLIED FOR EARLY SITE PERMITOPERATING LICENSE APPLICATION EXPECTED BY THE N.R.C.Companies have yet to announce locations of four sites where they may seek to build one reactor eachTwo reactors at a site not yet determined in TexasThree reactors at two sites not yet determined in FloridaCalvert Cliffs site, Md.(Source by Nuclear Regulatory Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Surveys and Series; Factories and Industrial Plants; Industry Profiles; Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant (Md); Electric Light and Power; Coal

COMPANY: PPL CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%) Constellation Energy Group; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Ppl Corp

TICKER: PPL (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: MAYO SHATTUCK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Matthew L Wald; William F Hecht

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%) MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006



427 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asia Group Seeks To Accelerate a Trade Zone 

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
Trade ministers from Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian nations agreed in principal yesterday to accelerate a timetable toward free trade and to challenge the surging economies of China and India.
 Encouraged by a report showing that Southeast Asia received record levels of foreign investment last year -- more than China when calculated on a per-capita basis -- the trade ministers said they would advise their governments to move up plans for a free trade zone in the region.
''We all agreed to recommend to the leaders that we would accelerate to 2015'' from 2020, Indonesia's trade minister, Mari Elka Pangestu, said at a meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean. ''The issue is how to get there, so now we have to discuss a more in-depth kind of a blueprint.'' 
 Southeast Asian leaders will take up the issue at a December meeting.
 The countries with the region's largest economies, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia, benefited from generous foreign investment in the 1990's, but they were eclipsed by China and India after the financial crisis of 1997. But Southeast Asia has rebounded in recent years, helped in part by a boom in prices of commodities like rubber, palm oil, rice, oil and gas.
 Thailand recently broke into the ranks of the world's 10 largest car exporters, tourism has recovered from the effects of the tsunami of 2004 and many factories around the region are finding that China's rise is a boon for business.
 Unlike Europe or the United States, the largest economies in Southeast Asia have a big trade surplus with China because they export commodities and electronic components.
 Taken together, Southeast Asia's gross domestic product is about $850 billion, larger than India's $720 billion but smaller than China's $2.2 trillion.
 Foreign direct investment into the Asean countries rose to a record $38 billion last year, surpassing levels seen at the peak of the region's boom in the 1990's. China, which has double the population of Southeast Asia, attracted about $53 billion in foreign investment last year.
 Despite this palpable progress, Southeast Asia's road to greater cooperation is lined with skeptics.
 ''So far, it's mainly a marketing ploy,'' said Andy Xie, chief Asia economist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. ''They still trade with others far more than among themselves.'' About 23 percent of trade in Southeast Asia is conducted within the region; the United States, the European Union and Japan remain the region's largest trade partners.
 ''The bottom line is that China dominates Asian trade,'' Mr. Xie said. ''Asean has not taken on reforms to address labor competitiveness issues. They're lagging in infrastructure. These societies are not organized like Northeast Asian societies.''
 Analysts also fear that Southeast Asia's economic buoyancy is somewhat illusory and that overreliance on commodities could backfire.
 ''It's old solutions to new problems,'' said Marshall Mays, a director at Emerging Alpha Advisors, a fund manager based in Hong Kong. ''Because commodity prices are high, it's very tempting to put money into them. But a year from now, commodities will be 25 percent cheaper'' and ''new capacity could push the prices even lower.''
 But in one area, Southeast Asia remains very attractive. Factory wages in Thailand are similar to those in the manufacturing centers of southeastern China, while those in Indonesia and Vietnam are about 30 percent lower, companies with manufacturing operations in those countries say.
 The 10 members of Asean are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Trade officials from Southeast Asia met yesterday in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to discuss issues and rivals. From left are Lim Jock Seng of Brunei, Cham Prasidh of Cambodia and Mari Elka Pangestu of Indonesia. (Photo by Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); EXPORT PRICES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Thomas Fuller

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%) SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (99%); ASIA (99%); CHINA (95%); INDIA (94%); MALAYSIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); INDONESIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Thailand; Indonesia; Vietnam; China; India

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



428 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: The Hunt for Deepwater Ports 

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
A 10-day shutdown of the West Coast ports at Long Beach and Los Angeles four years ago had shipping companies and big retailers scrambling to fill orders for Christmas. Since then, congestion and labor shortages at the country's busiest ports have prompted shippers to look for new ports to receive their merchandise.
 It was an equally big problem for companies like AMB Property, a San Francisco-based real estate investment trust that specializes in distribution facilities and counts shippers and retailers as important clients. 
''The problems in L.A. made it pretty clear to us that our customers wanted an alternative,'' said Hamid R. Moghadam, chairman and chief executive of AMB, a publicly traded REIT.
 Mr. Moghadam looked along the West Coast and found the port of Tacoma had plenty of empty space, good rail connections and room for container ships. In 2003, AMB started buying and developing industrial properties around Tacoma, and now owns 2.3 million square feet there. Within three years, the company expects to have up to 35 percent more property in Seattle and Tacoma.
 Pressured by booming trade with Asia, shipping companies and the retailers who rely on them are taking another look at Washington State. The Puget Sound area offers two significant benefits: Its deepwater ports can handle the largest container ships, and they are two day's sail closer to Asia than Southern California.
 The crush of container traffic since 2003 has turned the ports in the Puget Sound area into a national entry for cargo. Around 70 percent of the containers leave the area on trucks or rail bound for the Midwest and East Coast.
 ''Seattle-Tacoma is a gateway not just for Puget Sound, but for the whole country,'' said Paul Bingham, an economist with Global Insight in Washington.
 In Tacoma, the draw is acres of developable space, a rarity in most ports. Last year, the city's port opened or expanded three container terminals, including a 171-acre operation. The $210 million terminal was the port's most expensive to date, and may not be the last. Over the next five years, the port plans to spend $301.5 million on widening waterways and expanding terminals.
 ''It's a constant expansion,'' Michael Wasem, the port's spokesman, said.
 Seattle, about 33 miles north of Tacoma, has not been forgotten, either. Since 1998, the port has spent around $1 billion on dredging projects, terminal expansions and road and railroad improvements. Although land is more scarce around the Seattle waterfront, the port and shipping lines have been increasing capacity by upgrading equipment and shuffling operations. It is also now considering converting a $16.5 million cruise ship terminal in downtown Seattle back into a container operation to accommodate the need for more space.
 Over the last two years, container traffic has surged 40 percent in Seattle and 19 percent in Tacoma. In 2005, Seattle and Tacoma both handled about 2.1 million 20-foot containers. 
 Charlie Sheldon, managing director of the seaport division for the Port of Seattle, said that growth in container arrivals was modest until 2003, when it accelerated rapidly.
 The expansion began to slow only this year. While cargo shipments in Tacoma are up 5.1 percent this year compared with 2005, traffic is down 3.9 percent in Seattle. 
 But port analysts said the numbers were likely to continue rising, though perhaps not as fast as last year.
 ''It's not as if this is the high-water mark,'' Mr. Bingham said. ''It won't be downhill from here.''
 But some cities near the port in Tacoma are already balking at the explosive growth. Large retailers like Pier 1 Imports, Target and Home Depot have put up large distribution warehouses around the area, and small cities, eager for the infusion of cash, were happy to have them. But after initial development fees were collected, there was little long-term economic advantage. 
 Over the last year, three cities within 30 miles of Tacoma -- Sumner, Auburn and Lacey -- have either limited the size of new distribution warehouses or imposed moratoriums on their construction. For them, the facilities have generated few new jobs; provided little property tax because of a statewide 1 percent cap on annual increases; and attracted a large number of trucks that wear down local roads and add to traffic congestion. 
 Lacey, for example, estimated the number of heavy trucks traveling on local roads would jump to as many as 7,500 a day from 700 if five million square feet of proposed new warehouse space was built.
 ''What is important is jobs, and these don't generate a lot of them,'' said Jerry Litt, director of community development in Lacey. ''It's less than one employee per 1,000 square feet.''
 A plan considered by the State Legislature this year to simplify the sales tax system also pushed cities to limit the expansion of warehouses. Under the proposal, sales taxes would have gone to cities where a product was delivered, not to cities where it was stored. Although the measure never passed, cities with large concentrations of warehouses worry that it will be reintroduced in the next session.
 ''We would be in serious financial problems if we allowed more large distribution warehouses,'' said Paul Rogerson, community development director in Sumner, which has a six-month construction moratorium on part of its land zoned for industrial uses.
 Building restrictions have made it tougher to find warehouse space. Vacancy rates have tightened and prices have shot up on industrial land around the ports. In the Kent Valley, north of Tacoma, the vacancy rate dropped to 5.45 percent in the second quarter of this year, down from 6.1 percent in 2002. In Tacoma and nearby Fife, vacancies are 6.53 percent, down from 10.93 percent, according to CB Richard Ellis, a commercial real estate brokerage firm.
 ''People want to be closer, but there's no land,'' said Lane Bockman, a senior vice president with CB Richard Ellis in Bellevue, Wash.
 That has led to bidding wars and price inflation on the few open parcels left within 20 miles of the port. Many companies are pushing south of the Kent Valley and Tacoma to find land that is cheaper and more plentiful. The extra space comes in handy because warehouses have ballooned in size over the last 10 years. A large warehouse used to be 100,000 square feet, but now is 500,000 square feet. An operation that size would probably need 25 acres. 
 ''We used to have a very rural area between Seattle and Portland,'' Mr. Bockman said. ''There's going to be warehouses all the way down to the border.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Port of Tacoma has undertaken an improvement program that includes widening waterways and dredging. Ports in Washington State are closer to Asia than those in California. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDER FULFILLMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); CRUISES (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Ships and Shipping ; International Trade and World Market; Ports; Containerization

PERSON: Kristina Shevory

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; California; Seattle (Wash); Tacoma (Wash); Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



429 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Star Banker, With Future, Emerges Free

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Frank P. Quattrone is going back to work. After facing criminal charges for three years, Mr. Quattrone, the former technology banker, walked out of Federal District Court in Manhattan yesterday after persuading prosecutors to agree to a deal to dismiss their case, and declared, ''I plan to resume my business career.''
 The government's retreat was the first time that prosecutors had dropped such a prominent case without seeking a penalty and came after a series of victories by Mr. Quattrone, culminating in an appeals ruling in March that overturned a 2004 conviction for obstruction of justice. 
The prosecutors agreed to drop the case in what is known as a deferred-prosecution agreement as long as Mr. Quattrone does not violate any laws within a year.
 The remarkable turnabout will allow him to pursue a finance career as if the last three years had never happened. Wall Street, though, has become a different place since Mr. Quattrone left Credit Suisse after being indicted in 2003 amid a flurry of investigations that followed the bursting of the dot-com bubble.
 ''It's not the wild, wild West anymore,'' said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, a senior associate dean at the Yale School of Management. ''It's a very different place. Back then, oversight was lax and rules were something to get around. Now, monitoring and oversight is much tighter.'' 
 Since then, investment banking has been transformed by changes brought about by initiatives of the New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and seismic shifts that have often made hedge funds and private equity firms more important than blue-chip corporations. 
 Many of the prominent research analysts who rode the technology boom -- Henry M. Blodget, Jack B. Grubman and Mary Meeker -- have retreated and have sought to remake themselves. Ms. Meeker remains an analyst at Morgan Stanley, albeit a quieter, less bullish one; Mr. Blodget, who was barred from the industry, has tried his hand at journalism, writing a blog and consulting; and Mr. Grubman, who was also barred, has recast himself as a consultant to small and midsize telecommunications companies.
 At the same time, regulators are no longer concerned with ''spinning'' -- providing access to initial public offerings in exchange for kickbacks; that was the issue du jour in 2001. The new watchword is ''backdating,'' which describes how some executives reset the date of stock option grants to make them more favorable.
 And the young technology companies that were Mr. Quattrone's specialty are maturing to the point where many of their businesses have become cyclical and the industry is consolidating. 
 How Mr. Quattrone -- who as an investment banker led the initial public offerings of companies like Amazon.com and Cisco Systems -- plans to rejoin Wall Street remains unclear. 
 It is unlikely that he would join a major Wall Street firm, at least in the near term. More likely, associates say, he may start a private equity firm that focuses on technology companies -- one akin perhaps to Silver Lake Partners, the buyout firm that bought Sungard last year for $11.3 billion and the semiconductor unit of Philips Electronics for $4.4 billion early this month. 
 Among many in technology industries, Mr. Quattrone retains much of his prominence, and he is expected to be received with open arms on the West Coast, especially by many of the dozens of executives and venture capitalists he helped in the 1990's.
 ''Frank is one of the true legends of Silicon Valley,'' Roger McNamee, a founder of Silver Lake who started Elevation Partners, told San Francisco magazine in May. ''If you were to create a hall of fame, and you were going to limit the number of people in it to 10, Frank would be on that list and he would be the only investment banker on that list.'' 
 Outside court yesterday, Mr. Quattrone -- dressed in a light blue suit and a red tie covered in images of cigars, trophies and golf clubs -- chose not to elaborate on his future business plans. 
 ''Thanks to all of you who stood by me during the past four years,'' he said. ''God bless you all.''
 Mr. Quattrone said that in addition to pursuing his career, he would continue his ''board service at the Innocence Project and the Tech Museum of Innovation.'' 
 The Innocence Project is a program at Santa Clara University's School of Law to help overturn convictions of innocent people; Mr. Quattrone become involved with the project after he was convicted in 2004.
 While deferred-prosecution agreements often include an admission of wrongdoing or a penalty, there is no such statement by Mr. Quattrone in the settlement. The only conditions imposed are that he notify the government if he plans to travel outside the country and that he consort only with ''law-abiding persons.''
 The arrangement is considered a considerable victory for Mr. Quattrone. The agreement was engineered by his appeals lawyer, Mark F. Pomerantz, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. 
 Mr. Quattrone was convicted in May 2004 of obstruction of justice as a result of endorsing a colleague's e-mail message in December 2000 that urged his staff to ''clean up those files.'' An earlier trial on the same charges resulted in a deadlocked jury and was declared a mistrial.
 But the appeals court, in overturning the 2004 conviction, found that the judge's instructions to the jurors had failed to adequately require that they establish that Mr. Quattrone intended to thwart a government investigation.
 That reversal was the first in a series of victories for Mr. Quattrone. A few days later, the Securities and Exchange Commission revoked the lifetime ban from the securities industry that NASD, the brokerage industry's regulator, had imposed on him. And in June, NASD dropped its charges against him. 
 ''The road to victory for the government would have been a tough one,'' said Mark C. Zauderer, a lawyer with the firm of Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer, ''given the appellate court's reversal on the jury charge, and an acquittal would have detracted from a strong message already sent about the importance of not destroying documents in the face of an investigation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank P. Quattrone outside the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan yesterday after the settlement of his case with prosecutors. (Photo by John Marshall Mantell for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Wall Street Rehabilitation''Here are some prominent Wall Street bankers and analysts who had roles in the stock boom-and-bust and related corporate scandals of the late 1990's and what has become of them.Jack B. GrubmanSalomon Smith BarneyAnalystFINE, IF ANY: $15 millionWHAT HAPPENED: Agreed to lifetime ban from the securities industryCURRENT STATUS: Has a small telecom consulting companyHenry BlodgetMerrill LynchAnalystFINE, IF ANY: $4 millionWHAT HAPPENED: Agreed to lifetime ban from the securities industryCURRENT STATUS: President, Cherry Hill ResearchPaul E. JohnsonRobertson StephensAnalystFINE, IF ANY: $2 millionWHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of civil securities fraud
ordered to not violate securities laws for five yearsCURRENT STATUS: Hedge fund managerDaniel H. BaylyMerrill LynchHead of global investment bankingFINE, IF ANY: $840,000WHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of fraud, conspiracy
sentenced to 2.5 yearsCURRENT STATUS: Convictions overturned
freed from prisonJames A. BrownMerrill LynchHead of project and lease groupFINE, IF ANY: $840,000WHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of fraud, conspiracy, perjury and obstruction
sentenced to 3 years 10 monthsCURRENT STATUS: Fraud, conspiracy convictions overturned
others being appealed
freed from prisonRobert S. FurstMerrill LynchInvestment bankerFINE, IF ANY: Not finedWHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of fraud, conspiracy
sentenced to 37 monthsCURRENT STATUS: Convictions overturned
freed from prisonWilliam FuhsMerrill LynchInvestment bankerFINE, IF ANY: Not finedWHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of fraud, conspiracy
sentenced to 37 monthsCURRENT STATUS: Convictions overturned
freed from prisonFrank P. QuattroneCredit SuisseAnalystFINE, IF ANY: $90,300WHAT HAPPENED: Convicted of obstruction on second trial after first ended in a mistrial
sentenced to 18 monthsCURRENT STATUS: Conviction overturned
 made deal to avoid third trial(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ETHICS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Decisions and Verdicts

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse First Boston; Credit Suisse First Boston

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Frank P Quattrone; Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



430 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Analyst Upgrades Help Technology Shares Gain Slightly

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Technology stocks posted small gains in light trading yesterday after broker upgrades helped the sector, while a Fed official's comments about possible rate increases pushed blue chips lower.
 Advanced Micro Devices and XM Satellite Radio Holdings climbed after analysts at Bear Stearns raised their ratings on the stocks.
Meanwhile, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Michael Moskow, said the pause in the central bank's string of rate increases earlier this month was ''constructive,'' but more rate increases could still be needed to cut inflation. 
 The comments helped push down American International Group, one of the world's largest insurers and a company sensitive to interest rates. A.I.G. was the biggest negative influence on the Dow and helped limit the Standard & Poor 500-stock index's gain.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 5.21 points, or 0.05 percent, to end at 11,339.84. The S.& P. was up 1.30 points, or 0.10 percent, to finish at 1,298.82. The Nasdaq composite index was up 2.27 points, or 0.11 percent, to 2,150.02.
 Advanced Micro's shares rose $1.48, or 6.3 percent, to $24.88, while XM's stock was up $2.28, or 20.3 percent, at $13.52. 
 An executive at Advanced Micro said the company hoped to increase its share of the global server market. The surge in XM's stock pulled up the shares of a rival, Sirius Satellite Radio, which gained 3.6 percent, or 14 cents, to $4.03.
 Interest rate concerns increased in the early afternoon and the Dow trimmed its earlier gains, then turned negative after Mr. Moskow's comments.
 ''The risk of inflation remaining too high is greater than the risk of growth being too low,'' said Mr. Moskow, who will become a voting member of the Fed's policy-setting committee next year.
 The Fed left rates unchanged on Aug. 8 after 17 consecutive increases since June 2004. But economists are uncertain that the Fed is done.
 ''It's still an open debate between inflation and a slowing economy,'' said Alexander Paris, an economist and market analyst for Barrington Research in Chicago.
 Interest rates were steady yesterday, with the 10-year Treasury note rising 1/32, to 100 17/32, and the yield, at 4.81 percent, unchanged from late Monday. 
 A.I.G. shares slid 64 cents, to $63.11.
 Crude oil for September delivery expired yesterday with a small gain. The September contract rose 18 cents, to settle at $72.63 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Iran responded to a package of incentives to halt its uranium enrichment program by saying it is ready for ''serious'' talks to defuse its standoff with the West.
 The luxury home builder Toll Brothers reported that quarterly profit fell, but its earnings and its outlook topped Wall Street expectations. Its stock rose 43 cents, to $25.20. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.605
High Rate: 5.075
Coupon Yield: 5.166
Low Rate: 5.050
Median Rate: 5.065
Total applied for: $58,527,600
Accepted: $28,063,274
Noncompetitive: $357,472

The four-week bills mature Sept. 01, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); SATELLITE RADIO (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INSURANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); NETWORK SERVERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (84%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (58%); XM SATELLITE RADIO HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (73%); AMD (FRA) (73%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



431 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: For 2 Giants of Soft Drinks, A Crisis in a Crucial Market 

BYLINE: By Amelia Gentleman

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
TWO of the world's biggest brand names, known for wooing customers around the world, are facing a credibility crisis in one of their crucial emerging markets. 
 The Center for Science and the Environment announced in August that drinks manufactured by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo in India contained on average more than 24 times the safe limits of pesticides, which could come from sugar, water and other ingredients.
When those reports appeared on the front pages of newspapers in India, Coke and Pepsi executives were confident that they could handle the situation. But they stumbled. 
 They underestimated how quickly events would spiral into a nationwide scandal, misjudged the speed with which local politicians would seize on an Indian environmental group's report to attack their global brands and did not respond swiftly to quell the anxieties of their customers. 
 Three weeks later, Coke and Pepsi are still struggling to win back the confidence of consumers. Partial bans on their products remain in a quarter of India's states and a complex legal battle to overturn the bans is just beginning. The companies acknowledge that things have not gone smoothly. 
 The battle offers a cautionary tale for multinational corporations doing business in developing countries, especially one like India, where the market for soft drinks is about $1.6 billion, with Coke holding about 60 percent. 
 In some ways, the immediate response from Coke and Pepsi came right out of crisis management text books. 
 The companies formed committees in India and the United States, working in tandem on legal and public relations issues. They worked around the clock fashioning rebuttals. They commissioned their own laboratories to conduct tests and waited until the results came through before commenting in detail.
 Their approaches backfired. Their reluctance to give details fanned consumer suspicion. They became bogged down in the technicalities of the charges, instead of focusing on winning back the support of their customers.
 ''They got behind the curve, and now they are chasing the crisis,'' said Richard S. Levick, president and chief executive of Levick Strategic Communications, which is based in the United States and specializes in advising businesses in crises.
 Coke and Pepsi executives have said repeatedly that their soft drinks meet ''international standards,'' but concede this is a difficult fight. 
 ''We have some way to go to restore consumer confidence in our brands,'' said Kari Bjorhus, Coca-Cola's communications director. 
 Rajeev Bakshi, chairman of PepsiCo India, agreed. ''Has our side of the story got across to the consumer yet?'' he asked. ''Not really. I am concerned about that.'' 
 On Tuesday, the companies got a lift with the publication of a study by India's health ministry that said the Center for Science and Environment's findings did not conclusively prove that the soft drinks contained pesticide residue. 
 The center, however, was skeptical. ''The minister of health is clearly more concerned with industrial health -- and not people's health,'' it said in a statement. 
 At the start, both companies were unprepared, when one state after another in India announced partial bans on Coke and Pepsi products, preventing the drinks from being sold in government offices, hospitals and schools. Politicians exploited the populist potential. 
 ''We were a little surprised and disappointed by the bans,'' said Kenth Kaerhoeg, group communications director for Coca-Cola Asia, who flew in from Hong Kong to work on the situation. 
 Suhel Seth, a public relations expert in India and an adviser to Coca-Cola India, said Coke and Pepsi should have known better. ''Fringe politicians will continue to be publicly hostile to big Western companies, regardless of how eager they are for their investment,'' he said. 
 In hindsight, Ms. Bjorhus, the Coke communications director, said she could now see how the environmental group had picked Coca-Cola as a way of attracting attention to the broader problem of pesticide contamination in Indian food products. 
 Sunita Narain, who heads the group, ''has serious concerns about pesticides in the food chain,'' Ms. Bjorhus said.
 ''By focusing her attention on the soft drinks industry, she gets a lot of attention.'' 
 Failing to anticipate the political potency of the incident, Coke and Pepsi initially hoped that the crisis would blow over and they adopted a policy of silence.''Here people interpret silence as guilt,'' said Mr. Seth, the Indian public relations expert. ''You have to roll up your sleeves and get into a street fight. Coke and Pepsi didn't understand that.''
 The companies also failed to realize how fast news travels in modern India.
 ''We are living in a new, very aware India,'' said Amit Agnihotri, a public relations analyst in Delhi. ''We have 36 news channels. People are interested in what is happening around them. Coke and Pepsi haven't understood the power of this new India.'' 
 Coca-Cola eventually decided to go on the attack, though indirectly, giving detailed briefings by executives, who questioned the scientific credentials of their products' accusers. They directed reporters to Internet blogs full of entries that were uniformly pro-Coke and they handed out the cellphone number for the director of an organization called the Center for Sanity and Balance in Public Life. 
 Emphasizing that he was not being paid by the industry, Kishore Asthana, from that center, said, ''One can drink a can of Coke every day for two years before taking in as much pesticide as you get from two cups of tea.'' 
 Still, the situation began to spin out of control. Newspapers printed images of cans of the drinks with headlines like ''toxic cocktail.'' News channels broadcast images of protesters pouring Coke down the throats of donkeys.
 Although India represents only about 1 percent of Coca-Cola's global volume, the nation is seen as central to the company's long-term growth strategy. Coke decided to address customers directly, printing an advertisement asking, ''Is there anything safer for you to drink?'' and inviting Indians to visit its plants to see how the beverage is made.
 Regulators have not set standards for allowable levels of pesticides in soft drinks. Cleansing sugar of pesticide traces is difficult, and India's groundwater is so contaminated that most food products contain some pesticide residue.
 Asim Parekh, a vice president for Coca-Cola India, said his ''heart sank'' when he heard first heard the accusations because he knew that consumers would be easily confused. ''But even terminology like P.P.B. -- parts per billion -- is difficult to comprehend,'' he said. ''This makes our job very challenging.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in India reacted to reports that Coca-Cola and Pepsi contained pesticide residues. Some states announced partial bans on Coke and Pepsi products. (Photo by Sansaka Sen/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); PESTICIDES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (58%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



432 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; $25 AND UNDER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: A Latin Fiesta, Near the B.Q.E.

BYLINE: By Peter Meehan

 BODY:
SUANY CARCAMO, stout and smiling, works under a smudged white tent midway down the Bay Street side of the Red Hook ball fields; you'll know you're at the right place if there's a hulking aluminum pot of beans warming on the griddle next to Ms. Carcamo, who will be smacking little balls of wheat flour dough into thick tortillas and tossing them on the griddle to cook.
 Ms. Carcamo left Honduras for Brooklyn more than 20 years ago and has been turning out these baleadas, which might be most expediently described as Honduran tacos, at the Red Hook ball fields for more than a decade. Away from the sun and soccer, on weekdays and through the winter, she runs Honduras Maya, her restaurant on Fifth Avenue in Park Slope.
She is one of 13 or so vendors who line two streets that border a soccer field in the Red Hook Recreation Area and dish out Mexican, Central American, South American and Caribbean specialties every Saturday and Sunday, rain or shine, roughly from May through October. 
 At the ball fields, they work under tarps and tents and cook over charcoal, Sterno and propane. Few have posted prices or menus; some fly the flag of the country they hail from.
 The ball fields are just south of Red Hook's huge tract of public housing and west of the bend in the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway where it juts into the sky over the mouth of the Gowanus Canal. The crowd here, at the southeast corner of Clinton and Bay Streets, is primarily Latino, Caribbean and local. But the quality of food -- there is no better street-food scene in all of New York -- draws eaters from all over the borough and the city. Though you can easily make a meal out of a visit to any single stall, sampling a swath of what's available is half the fun of going. (The soccer games are pretty impressive, too.)
 Start off at the easternmost stall on Bay Street, where Victor and Carmen Rojas preside over a stand that serves a selection of Ecuadorian and Chilean dishes. She is from Ecuador, he is from Chile, but they fly the Ecuadorian flag over their stall because, Mr. Rojas said, the ball fields attract many more Ecuadorian visitors than Chileans.
 Ceviche, the stall's star offering, is served cold in lidded plastic containers that are fished out of ice chests in the back of the minivan parked behind the stand. There are three versions available: all-fish, all-shrimp and the ''mixto,'' a jumble of shrimp, octopus, squid and whitefish. Opt for the mixto. 
 All the ceviches brim with fresh lime juice, sweet and sour, and are seasoned aggressively with chopped cilantro, sliced green onions and strands of red onion. A spoonful of the stand's pulpy hot sauce is enough to add fire to the whole pint serving. You can augment the already ample portion with a bag of fried plantain chips for $1 or a few spoonfuls of roasted corn kernels for free. 
 Note that the Rojases, like most of the vendors, have a folding table set out where their customers can eat. Flitting from vendor to vendor and table to table can lead to interesting conversations with other eaters (especially if you speak Spanish) and provides the opportunity to scope out what other customers are ordering; taking over part of one of the picnic tables scattered around the shaded perimeter of the park allows a group to dispatch members to go on single-dish missions. 
 West of the ceviche down Bay Street are Ms. Carcamo and her baleadas. 
 In their most basic form, the baleadas feature those just-made wheat tortillas folded around a smear of beans and a sprinkling of grated cheese. They're good that way. But they're best with both of the veggie-heavy salsas and a crowning pinch of pickled onions and jalapenos that Ms. Carcamo has to offer. Wash down your baleadas with a cup of the stand's horchata, a rice-based drink spiked with a goodly amount of cinnamon and dark unrefined sugar.
 A few stalls farther west is an operation under a blue tarp with a menu boasting of pupusas and more, tethered to an Econoline van with tinted windows. Visiting it takes a few minutes more than most other booths because the pupusas, prepared Salvadoran-style, are made to order: a filling of your choosing -- the cheese-and-jalapeno option is particularly good -- is enveloped in a ball of masa, flattened into a fat disc and griddled until it is mottled and crisp on both sides and meltingly hot inside. Think of it as a cooking lesson and a chance to digest all in one. Try the hot sauce and the vinegared cabbage slaw you'll be offered as an accompaniment.
 If you decide to try one of the stand's worthwhile corn-husk tamales, like the one stuffed with tender chicken and scattershot throughout with chickpeas, push for crema -- which is like runny sour cream -- with it, too. 
 Just beyond the pupusas, on either side of the corner of Bay and Clinton, are two vendors (the Martinez family, from Mexico City, in the green tent; the Hernandez clan, from Puebla, under the blue tarp) serving Mexican food. Both offer tacos and quesadillas, but huaraches are what everyone orders. 
 The huarache is a large oval corn tortilla, just millimeters thicker than a standard tortilla, on account of the impossibly thin smear of beans contained between the thinly stretched masa. Once the huarache is cooked you can have it topped with meat of your choice -- pork and chorizo are both good options -- and then a battery of condiments: salsa verde, salsa rojo, chopped avocado, grated cheese, pickled jalapenos and more. Served open-face, a huarache is a meal in itself. 
 For dessert, the Vaquero family, right at the corner, sells a selection of chopped fruit, including watermelon and mango, or shell-your-own quenepas, odd little litchi-like fruits from Puerto Rico.
 And these dishes, each a compelling reason to visit the ball fields on its own and each a commendable specimen of its kind, are nothing more than a cursory sampling of what's on offer. There are charcoal-cooked elotes that are worth the train ride alone. There are chicken-stuffed taquitos fried to golden perfection down the block by women who look like they've fried enough taquitos in their lives to know taquito perfection in their bones. 
 It's cheap. It's a good time. It's the kind of experience that reminds you why you live in New York. And until cold weather arrives, it's there for the eating, for everyone. 

Red Hook Ball Fields
The corner of Clinton Street and Bay Street in Red Hook, Brooklyn; no phone.

BEST DISHES -- Huarache or quesadilla with pork or chorizo; Honduran tacos with beans and cheese or with grilled steak; ceviche mixto; pupusas with beans and cheese; chicken tamales.
PRICE RANGE -- Small dishes are typically $1.50 to $3; few, if any, dishes exceed $9.
CREDIT CARDS -- Cash only.
HOURS -- Vendors sell food at the ball fields on Saturdays and Sundays from May through October. Prime hours are noon to 5 p.m.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- All at street level.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SALSA? -- Si! Huaraches await their toppings at the Red Hook ballfields. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); SOCCER (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Food; Reviews; Vendors, Street

PERSON: Peter Meehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ECUADOR (94%); CHILE (93%); HONDURAS (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



433 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: First Data to Restate Earnings for 2 Years on Accounting Change 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The First Data Corporation, which is planning to sell shares in its Western Union subsidiary in the next three months, will file restated earnings reports for 2005 and 2006 to change the way it accounts for some derivative positions, the company said yesterday. 
 The amendments will increase noncash earnings from 2001 to the second quarter of 2006 by about $30 million, or less than half of 1 percent of overall earnings during the period, the company said.
 The changes will not affect cash flows, stockholder's equity or the timing of the Western Union spinoff, the company said.
 First Data, based in Greenwood Village, Colo., said last month that it intended to spin off Western Union in September or October and focus on its processing divisions for credit cards and automated teller machine cards.
 First Data said the derivatives related to its restatement were used to hedge against movements in interest rates and currencies.
 The company said it made the amendments based on discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 The chief executive, Henry C. Duques, said that the initial accounting treatment by First Data was reviewed and approved by the company's independent auditors, Ernst & Young, but that the standards that applied to the derivatives ''are complex and continue to evolve.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CASH FLOW (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (70%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Company Reports ; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (97%); WESTERN UNION CO (90%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) First Data Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (97%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (97%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

PERSON: Henry C Duques

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



434 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: A Fed Banker Revives Talk Of an 18th Increase in Rates

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Michael H. Moskow, said yesterday that the Fed might need to resume raising interest rates to reduce inflation and ensure that expectations for higher prices did not get out of hand. 
 ''The risk of inflation remaining too high is greater than the risk of growth being too low,'' Mr. Moskow said to the McLean County Chamber of Commerce in Bloomington, Ill. ''Some additional firming of policy may yet be necessary to bring inflation back into the comfort zone within a reasonable period of time.''
In Mr. Moskow's assessment, the Fed's decision two weeks ago to keep the benchmark lending rate at 5.25 percent after 17 consecutive increases over two years did not necessarily mean that the central bank was finished. Offering the most extensive explanation so far of that move, Mr. Moskow said it allowed more time to review financial conditions, economic growth and the housing market.
 Another Fed official, Jack Guynn, president of the Atlanta Fed, also addressed interest rates yesterday but stopped short of saying that more increases might be needed. ''I am comfortable that policy seems to be, at the time of the last meeting, properly calibrated for my best forecast'' of output and inflation, he told reporters after a speech in Atlanta. Inflation is likely to recede in the ''medium term,'' he said.
 The Fed will continue to seek new ways to communicate its outlook and policy actions, Mr. Guynn said, and may eventually establish a numerical target for inflation.
 Mr. Guynn is a voting member of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year and he joined the majority decision on Aug. 8 to leave the benchmark rate unchanged.
 Mr. Moskow will become a voting member of the committee next year. He said yesterday: ''We need to balance the benefits of gaining new information against the costs of waiting too long. If inflation stays stubbornly high while we wait to see the effects of earlier policy actions, inflation expectations could increase, and that would be very costly.''
 Mr. Moskow said his ''comfort zone'' for inflation is for consumer prices, excluding food and energy, to rise by 1 percent to 2 percent a year. ''It's better to be in the middle of the range,'' though it's ''unrealistic to think we can always stay'' there, he said.
 The Fed decided to suspend interest rate increases, expecting inflation to recede because of a slowing economy. The rate-setting committee said in a statement that day that ''inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time.'' 
 Yesterday, Mr. Moskow said, ''It's likely that core inflation will come down somewhat, but risks remain.'' While inflation expectations ''appear to be contained,'' he added, if they rose, ''it would be incumbent on the Federal Reserve to adjust policy in a way that would affirm our commitment to price stability.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COUNTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

PERSON: Michael H Moskow

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



435 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

QUATTRONE GOING BACK TO WORK Prosecutors agreed to drop their case against Frank P. Quattrone, the former technology banker, as long as he does not violate any laws in the next year. The deal, which comes after a federal appeals ruling in March that overturned his 2004 conviction for obstruction of justice, will allow Mr. Quattrone, above, to pursue a finance career as if the last three years never happened. [Page C1.] 


ETHICS DEBATE OVER AOL DATA The release of data about AOL users' searches late last month has set off a flurry of divergent opinions in the academic community over the appropriateness of using the data for academic research. [C1.]

CRUISE PARTS WAYS WITH STUDIO Citing Tom Cruise's year-long metamorphosis from pure box-office phenomenon to pop-culture punch line, Viacom's chairman, Sumner Redstone, said that the company's Paramount Pictures unit was ending its 14-year relationship with the actor's production company. [C1.]

FOIE GRAS PROTEST In an unlikely demonstration of civil disobedience, a handful of restaurants in Chicago that never carry foie gras featured it on the very day that the city became the first in the nation to outlaw its sale. [A14.]

WAGE BILL IN CALIFORNIA Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and California lawmakers said they had agreed to raise the state's minimum wage to $8 an hour over the next two years, making it among the highest in the nation. [A16.]

RULING ON SEQUOIA FOREST A federal judge struck down a United States Forest Service plan that would have allowed a commercial lumber company to harvest trees from inside the Giant Sequoia National Monument in eastern California. [A16.]

COLAS ON THE DEFENSIVE Three weeks after the Center for Science and the Environment announced that drinks manufactured by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo in India contained on average more than 24 times the safe limits of pesticides, the companies are still struggling to win back the confidence of consumers. Market Place. [C3.]

MARKETING HANGERS-ON Cast members of the HBO series ''Entourage'' are proving attractive to marketers, appearing in campaigns for brands like Diet Pepsi, Gap and Cingular Wireless. Advertising. Stuart Elliott. [C3.]

FIRST DATA TO RESTATE EARNINGS The First Data Corporation, which is planning to sell shares in its Western Union subsidiary in the next three months, will file restated earnings reports for 2005 and 2006 to change the way it accounts for some derivative positions. [C4.]

FREE TRADE PACT IN ASIA Trade ministers from Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian nations agreed in principle to accelerate a timetable toward free trade and to challenge the surging economies of China and India. [C5.]

INDEXES ARE MIXED A Fed official's comments about possible rate increases pushed blue chips lower. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 5.21 points, to end at 11,339.84. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.30 points, to finish at 1,298.82. The Nasdaq composite index was up 2.27 points, to close at 2,150.02. [C7.]

MEDICAL OFFICES DISPERSE As doctors and medical groups relocate from hospital buildings and urban centers to be closer to patients who live in the suburbs, the medical industry in New Jersey is decentralizing. [C7.]

SENATOR PRESSES S.E.C. The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, has told the Securities and Exchange Commission that he is concerned that agency rules are slowing a Congressional inquiry into whether political influence derailed an investigation of the Pequot Capital Management hedge fund. [C7.]

FINDINGS ON EYE INFECTIONS Federal disease control experts and leading eye doctors have formally concluded that ReNu With MoistureLoc from Bausch & Lomb was the only contact lens solution contributing to an outbreak of potentially blinding fungal eye infections earlier this year. But the researchers' report, to be published today in The Journal of the American Medical Association, says it remains unclear how the product caused the problems. [C1.]

MICROSOFT IN DEAL WITH FACEBOOK Microsoft said that it would be the exclusive seller and provider of banner advertising and sponsored links on Facebook, a college-oriented Web site. [C6.]

ONLINE

RISING RENTS As the market for apartments has tightened in many parts of the country, rents have started moving up at a faster pace. An interactive graphic is at nytimes.com/business.

MICRO MISFITS America's previous flirtations with the microcar have all ended on sad notes. A slide show is at nytimes.com/automobiles.

THE NUCLEAR CHOICE Utility executives are sharply divided over whether nuclear power offers an attractive choice as they seek to satisfy a growing demand for electricity. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

HEALTH CARE COSTS The United States already spends nearly 16 percent of its gross domestic product on health care and it is almost impossible to know where the money goes. A report is at nytimes.com/health.

PENSIONS IN NEW YORK New pension benefits for government workers will eventually cost New York City an estimated $100 million. An article is at nytimes.com/nyregion.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Bausch & Lomb shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); SOFT DRINK MFG (72%); JUDGES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); NATIONAL PARKS (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); COMPANY EARNINGS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (81%); VIACOM INC (56%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); PEPSICO INC (53%); WESTERN UNION CO (51%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); KO (NYSE) (53%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); WU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (68%); SUMNER REDSTONE (53%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (79%); THAILAND (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



436 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: IRAN WON'T GIVE PROMISE TO END URANIUM EFFORT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington for this article, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Iran responded Tuesday to a set of incentives from Europe and the United States aimed at ending its nuclear program, but did not agree to suspend the enrichment of uranium by the end of the month, the West's primary demand.
 In its response, Iran offered ''serious talks'' over its nuclear activities but did not raise the issue of suspending enrichment by Aug. 31, the deadline established by the United Nations Security Council, Western diplomats said.
''What they have not done is address the key point, whether or not they are going to suspend,'' said one senior European official involved in the Iran negotiations. Following traditional protocol, the official and other diplomats spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
 As European and American diplomats analyzed the 21-page counterproposal on Tuesday, it increasingly appeared that Iran's efforts to push past the Aug. 31 deadline would be considered unacceptable and that they would be likely to lead to calls for imposing sanctions. The United States, Britain, France and Germany plan to meet Wednesday in New York to discuss the proposal and their response. 
 John R. Bolton, the United States representative to the United Nations, said Tuesday that Washington was prepared to move rapidly on a new Council resolution calling for economic sanctions. 
 But the meeting will not include two key Council members, Russia and China, which have been reluctant to punish Tehran harshly. The challenge facing the United States will be to maintain a unified front against Iran while putting together a package of sanctions that have some bite. [Page A6.]
 It was not immediately clear how Beijing or Moscow would react to the proposal. Western diplomats have said that the two governments will seize on any indication that Iran is willing to discuss suspension in future negotiations as a reason to water down any sanctions. 
 Iranian officials said they were offering a ''new formula'' to resolve the crisis, but did not release any details of their proposal. Nor did Western diplomats. It was clear, however, based on their characterizations, that in broad terms Iran had responded as expected, offering a lengthy, complex and somewhat oblique set of proposals it hoped would lead to future negotiations.
 ''We always expected a response that's not white or black, but gray,'' said Cristina Gallach, a spokeswoman for Javier Solana, foreign policy chief of the European Union. ''But our position can't be gray.''
 The Iranian nuclear conflict has been running along two paths: the West offered economic and political incentives to Tehran if it suspended enrichment, and the Security Council threatened sanctions if Iran failed to suspend by the end of the month.
 With Iran's response, it appeared that both sides remained stuck at the starting line. Iran said, as it has all along, that it would not accept any preconditions for negotiations over the package of incentives. And the West continued to insist that there would be no discussion of the incentives package until Iran suspended enrichment. 
 ''Although the unlawful behavior of the U.N. Security Council cannot be justified, based on the recommendations of Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations, we prepared our answer with a positive attitude,'' said Ali Larijani, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, as he delivered Iran's response to representatives of Britain, Russia, China, France and Germany here on Tuesday afternoon. The Swiss ambassador to Iran received the proposal on behalf of the United States, which does not have a representative in Tehran.
 Mr. Bolton appeared to ignore Iran's description of its proposal as a springboard for negotiations, instead referring to the document as Iran's ''definitive'' response.
 ''They can either take up the very generous offer that the five permanent members and Germany have extended to them, and if they do, there's a possibility of a different relationship with the United States and others,'' he said. ''But if they don't, we've also made it clear that their unwillingness to give up their pursuit of nuclear weapons will result in our efforts in the Security Council to obtain economic sanctions against them.'' 
 Nasser Hadian, a political science professor at Tehran University, said that if the proposal offers concrete details to ensure that Iran does not divert enriched uranium to a weapons program -- steps like intrusive inspections and real-time monitoring of the nuclear facilities with cameras -- it is possible that Iran will win some more support from Russia and China.
 ''It depends on the nature of the package,'' Dr. Hadian said.
 In the days before Iran's self-imposed Tuesday deadline to respond to the incentives package, Western diplomats here said they expected that the response would seek to keep negotiations going, and to remain ambiguous on important issues.
 Mr. Larijani tried to pre-empt the criticism that Iran was trying to buy time and encouraged the West to resume negotiations as early as Wednesday.
 ''Despite all the propaganda that Iran is trying to buy time,'' he said, Tehran urged the six nations making the offer ''to return to the negotiating table as soon as possible to discuss all the issues in the package, including long-term nuclear cooperation, economic and technical cooperation, and also security cooperation in the region, so that we can reach a peaceful understanding in all three areas.''
 But Western patience appears to be wearing thin. ''It's very nice of the Iranians to respond, but we don't feel a compunction to respond to this,'' the senior European official said. ''We're not going to dance to the Iranians' tune. We don't need to. The headline is that they haven't addressed the key issue so the Security Council process will continue.''
 Iran has already begun to brace for sanctions, calculating that an initial round would be relatively painless. But if the screws tighten, analysts here said, they expect the leadership to look for a face-saving compromise.
 Iran sits on some of the largest known oil reserves, but is forced to import more than 40 percent of its gasoline because it does not have the refinery capacity to meet its own needs. Sanctions that block gasoline imports would be extremely painful, analysts here said.
 When Iran set the deadline of Aug. 22, the last day of the Iranian month of Mordad, it said the Western proposal was so complex that it needed first to be studied by experts in specific fields like energy, security and economics. But the nuclear issue has also been turned into an important domestic issue, one that has had profound political implications here.
 While the government's policy on the nuclear program has not substantially changed in the last year, its strategy and approach to the West have. Under the previous president, Mohammad Khatami, the government adopted a strategy of confidence building, hoping to convince the West over time that it was working on a peaceful nuclear program.
 But as Mr. Khatami ended his second term in office, the clerical and hard-line leadership decided to move toward a more confrontational approach. In June 2005, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected president, and shortly after taking office he transformed the issue into a matter of national pride. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has repeatedly said that peaceful nuclear energy was Iran's ''inalienable right,'' and in defiance of the West he announced in April that Iran had already enriched uranium -- and would never stop. His office said Tuesday that he would hold a news conference next week in Tehran to directly address the Aug. 31 deadline.
 Throughout Tuesday, Iranian officials offered comments demonstrating their confidence in their country's position and their disregard for threats from the West.
 ''We should not define our national interests in accordance with the sort of reaction we might get from the West,'' said Ali Akbar Velayati, the foreign affairs adviser to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in an interview with ISNA, the student news agency. ''In that case we would be a passive nation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Iranians at a shrine in Tehran yesterday. Iranian officials have offered ''serious talks'' over nuclear activities. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)
 Ali Larijani, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, said Iran's response to the West's incentives was prepared with a ''positive attitude.'' (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (52%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium ; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (54%) Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Germany; Russia; China; Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



437 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words

PERSON: Jacob Mincer

HEADLINE: Jacob Mincer, 84, Pioneer On Labor Economics, Dies

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Jacob Mincer, a pioneer in labor economics who was the first to quantify the payoff from education and training, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. 
 The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Dr. Flora Kaplan Mincer, said.
Mr. Mincer had spent most of his career as a professor of economics at Columbia University, retiring from active teaching in 1991. 
 Mr. Mincer's calculations about the return on human capital came in the 1950's and 1960's, when the mixing of mathematics and empirical data was just coming into vogue among economists. Yet, nearly 40 years later, the framework that he developed is still in use.
 ''His very simple formulation basically fits the data for understanding how earnings are related to educational attainment in virtually every country in every time period,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard University labor economist.
 His groundbreaking work never won a Nobel Prize for Mr. Mincer, who was born in Poland and came to the United States on a scholarship in 1948 after spending most of the World War II years imprisoned. But he was frequently nominated for a Nobel by other labor economists, among them David Card of the University of California, Berkeley.
 ''The close blending of theory and data represented in Mincer's work has shaped the direction of labor economics and influenced and inspired all those who have followed him,'' Mr. Card wrote. 
 Professor Mincer's model, drawing on data from the 1950 and 1960 Censuses, was the first to relate income distribution in America to the varying amounts of education and on-the-job training among workers. He calculated, for example, that annual earnings rose by 5 to 10 percent in the 1950's and 1960's for every year of additional schooling. There was a similar, although smaller, return on investment in job training -- and age played a role.
 Young people were willing to stay out of the work force while they invested in college because they had plenty of years to earn back the investment with a substantial return. The same held true for on-the-job training and the willingness of the young to accept lower pay in return for higher wages later in life.
 Mr. Mincer summed up this research in a 1974 book, ''Schooling, Experience and Earnings'' (Columbia University Press). He was also among the first to explore a woman's role in family earnings, taking his cue from his wife, a radiation oncologist, whom he followed to New York from Chicago when she accepted a hospital residency.
 ''It came to him later that the contribution of the wife should be applied to family decisions regarding income,'' said Dr. Mincer, who interrupted her own career for six years to raise children. 
 When the couple met in the early 1950's, Mr. Mincer was a graduate student in economics at the University of Chicago and she a resident in a Chicago hospital. Soon after, she accepted a residency at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx and although they were not yet married, he followed her, shifting to Columbia.
 Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Deborah M. Mincer and Carolyn F. Mincer, and two grandchildren. A son, Daniel, died of an illness 21 years ago.
 Jacob Mincer was born on July 15, 1922, in Tomaszow, Poland, the only son of Isaac Mincer and Deborah Eisen Mincer. When war came, Mr. Mincer was a 16-year-old college freshman in Brno, Czechoslovakia. He spent the war years in and out of prison camps in that country and Germany. His parents and two sisters fled east, but were killed by the advancing German army.
 Soon after the war ended, Mr. Mincer won a scholarship financed by the Hillel Foundation to study at Emory University in Atlanta. He earned a bachelor's degree there in 1950 and moved on to the University of Chicago and then Columbia, earning his Ph.D. in 1957. He taught at City University of New York before joining the Columbia faculty in 1960. 
 The faculty then included Gary S. Becker, now a University of Chicago economist who later did win a Nobel Prize, for work roughly similar to Mr. Mincer's. ''I put his name forward several times,'' Mr. Becker said. ''But he was a retiring guy. He did not write op-ed pieces and promote himself actively.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (76%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); ONCOLOGY (60%); RADIOLOGY (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (55%)

CATEGORY: Economics

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



438 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Oppose Forced Pension Increases

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The major candidates for governor said on Tuesday that they opposed granting pension sweeteners for government workers if the measures are not supported by the local governments that must pay for the pensions. 
 The candidates addressed the issue after The New York Times reported that Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature had approved billions of dollars worth of pension enhancements for New York City's retirees over the last decade -- including many measures that were opposed by the city on the grounds that they were unaffordable.
Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democratic candidate for governor, said in a statement, ''Eliot opposes legislative changes to pension benefits that were not agreed to in collective bargaining and did not receive support from local governments that are obligated to pay the benefits.'' 
 John Faso, the Republican nominee for governor, said in an interview that while he could not absolutely rule out such a pension bill if there were exceptional circumstances, ''I would be very reluctant to support any enhancements that are not supported by the jurisdiction that has to pay for them.''
 And Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who is running against Mr. Spitzer in the Democratic primary, flatly declared that as governor, ''I'd veto every one of them put on my desk.''
 ''We already have the highest combined state and local taxes in America, and one of the most generous pension systems in the country,'' Mr. Suozzi said in an interview. ''It is one of the dark secrets of Albany: During the dark winter days of the legislative session, lobbyists slither around the hallways garnering more benefits for their clients. This forces local governments -- that have no say whatsoever in the rewarding of the benefits -- to cause their property taxes to go up.''
 Under state law, changes to pension benefits for local government workers must be approved by the Legislature and the governor. Traditionally, many unions would negotiate with the city to improve their pensions and, if they reached agreements, the unions and the city would go to Albany together to ask for the new benefits.
 It still works that way sometimes, and several of the biggest benefit enhancements of the last decade were supported by the city. But unions that seek pension enhancements and are turned down by the city increasingly find that they can win the benefits from Albany anyway, and they have learned to push for new benefits through heavy lobbying and campaign contributions. 
 Mr. Faso said that he favors giving school districts and local governments the option of eliminating traditional pension plans for new employees and giving them saving plans similar to 401-K plans, which the employers and the employees would contribute to. He said that such savings plans would give workers flexibility: they would be able to leave or join government service when they wanted to, instead of waiting to be eligible for pension benefits, because they could take the accounts with them.
 Asked about the risk such plans would force workers to face -- because if the investments performed poorly, they could find their accounts depleted and be forced to delay retirement -- Mr. Faso said, ''Right now, the risk is entirely faced by taxpayers.''
 As an assemblyman, Mr. Faso supported a couple of the most expensive pension enhancements of the last decade. In the interview, he said that he still supported the idea of providing automatic annual cost-of-living increases for retirees, because many of the older retirees had seen the purchasing power of their benefits eroded by inflation. 
 But he said he had ''second thoughts'' about another bill he voted for, which allowed many workers to stop contributing to their pension plans after 10 years. Mr. Faso said the state should consider creating a new tier, or pension system, for new employees that would in effect undo that change -- and require the contributions again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); VETO (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Election Issues; Government Employees; Law and Legislation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Michael Cooper; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J Faso; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



439 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Nation Faltering, Afghans' Leader Draws Criticism

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
After months of widespread frustration with corruption, the economy and a lack of justice and security, doubts about President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, and by extension the American-led effort to rebuild that nation, have led to a crisis of confidence.
 Interviews with ordinary Afghans and with foreign diplomats and Afghan officials make it clear that the expanding Taliban insurgency in the south represents the most serious challenge to his presidency to date.
The insurgency, along with the other issues, has brought an eruption of doubts about Mr. Karzai, who is widely viewed as having failed to attend to a range of problems. That has left more and more Afghans asking what the government is doing.
 Corruption is so widespread, the government apparently so lethargic and the divide between rich and poor so gaping that Mr. Karzai is losing public support, warn officials like Ahmad Fahim Hakim, deputy chairman of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. 
 ''Nothing that he promised has materialized,'' Mr. Hakim said, echoing the comments of diplomats and others in Kabul, the capital. ''Beneath the surface, it is boiling.'' 
 For the first time since Mr. Karzai took office four and half years ago, Afghans and diplomats are speculating about who might replace him. Most agree that the answer for now is no one, leaving the fate of the American-led enterprise tied to his own success or failure. He was re-elected in 2004 to a five-year term.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Karzai's office announced that he had spoken that day with President Bush, who assured him of continued American support. Mr. Karzai accepted Mr. Bush's invitation to visit Washington.
 Mr. Karzai, a consummate tribal politician, has been the cornerstone of the effort to form a centralized democratic government in Afghanistan to replace the Taliban government, which was driven from power in 2001.
 To his supporters, he has managed to keep the peace in a fractious society by giving regional warlords and armed leaders a stake in power while setting the country on the road to a democratic future.
 ''The perception of growing insecurity has affected the psyche of the Afghan people,'' Jawed Ludin, the president's chief of staff, said in a telephone interview from Kabul. But he called it a reality check rather than a crisis. He said people ''still trust'' Mr. Karzai and ''still think he can lead them.''
 But the costs of his compromises are becoming harder for average Afghans and some foreign donors to stomach. Critics say the compromises have insulated many people from the benefits of democratic change and hampered the running of the president's administration and local governments.
 Riots in Kabul on May 29, which left 17 people dead in the worst violence in the capital since the Taliban were deposed, were an ominous sign, many there say. The violence erupted after three Afghans were killed by a runaway American military truck. Four more people were killed when American soldiers fired into an angry crowd.
 Afterward, protesters rampaged through the streets attacking foreign offices. They also chanted ''Death to Karzai!'' -- an indication that he is blamed for the growing disenchantment. ''He was shaken,'' said one Western diplomat. 
 Recriminations against the president have continued, and Mr. Karzai's own missteps have not helped to redeem his political standing.
 In a reaction to the riots, the president appointed a powerful local commander with links to organized crime as police chief of Kabul. He also gave senior police posts to 13 former commanders who were to have been weeded out under long-awaited police reforms.
 Mr. Karzai's aides indicated that the steps were necessary to ensure security in the capital. But the appointments further alienated foreign diplomats and aid workers, as well as ordinary Afghans. ''He is too accommodating,'' said Joanna Nathan of the International Crisis Group, a policy research organization. ''The police reform was incredibly disappointing.''
 Recent interviews with a range of Afghans illustrated a common theme of complaints about corrupt and self-serving government officials.
 Earlier this month 60 members of Parliament, which has until now been largely supportive, signed a measure protesting the appointment of certain officials and the poor performance of his government.
 A group of elders from Baghlan Province in the north said they had been rebuffed when they went to the capital seeking to replace their governor, who they said was concerned only with his own power.
 ''We just want a neutral, impartial governor,'' said one representative, Abdul Shukur Urfani. ''People will start demonstrating, because they are dissatisfied with what the government is doing.''
 Mr. Karzai has dismissed many such problems as petty, but the range of corruption in fact runs both large and small.
 At one end of the scale is a housing scandal from three years ago, when cabinet ministers, in the president's absence, awarded themselves and friends prime real estate in Kabul, where land prices have shot up since the American invasion.
 An investigation was quietly dropped, and the officials were allowed to build ostentatious villas, which tower above passers-by as a constant reminder of official excess.
 Elsewhere, though corruption is small in scale, it has an enormous impact on the poor, who account for most of the population. A driver interviewed recently in Kandahar, in southern Afghanistan, said he earned the equivalent of $40 a month but paid half of that in bribes to the local police, leaving him unable to feed his family.
 An opposition politician, Abdul Latif Pedram, said: ''There has never been so much corruption in the country. We have a mafia economy and a drug economy.'' 
 Most galling to average people is the corruption of judges, which makes redress nearly impossible. There have been virtually no prosecutions of corrupt high-level or local officials. Corrupt police chiefs and governors remain in their positions or, if complaints grow too loud, are rotated to other jobs, said Mr. Hakim, of the human rights commission.
 In southern Afghanistan the situation is so bad that people have begun turning to the Taliban for the swift, if severe, justice administered by mullahs, said Abdual Qadeer Noorzai, a human rights official in that region.
 Mr. Karzai has been slow to address the problems, or has acted only when pushed.
 For instance, his choice for chief justice was a close ally, Fazel Hadi Shinwari, who had already served four years as head of the Supreme Court, presiding over one of the most corrupt institutions in the country. The problems were so apparent that Parliament refused to confirm the appointment, forcing the president to nominate a new chief justice, who was approved.
 There are similar complaints in the provinces. The British and Dutch governments, which were preparing to deploy troops under NATO command to southern Afghanistan, had to prod Mr. Karzai to remove two governors, both personal allies, who had alienated much of their provincial populations.
 The president's staff pointed out that he had to balance the tribal, factional, regional and ethnic demands of the country in his appointments, and that it took time to build up fundamental institutions that had been obliterated by years of war.
 But to many the appointments are indicative of Mr. Karzai's tendency to placate powerful armed factions rather than make tough decisions to improve governance. 
 There are complaints about the economy, too. Three million Afghans of a population of roughly 30 million still depend on food aid, and the government has had to appeal for more help for farmers affected by drought again this year. Prices have risen sharply with the influx of foreign aid.
 Despite the reconstruction boom, a lack of electrical power and other services constrains large-scale job creation, and hundreds apply daily for visas to find work in Iran or Pakistan. Poverty and joblessness are among the factors pushing people into the arms of the Taliban, local leaders in the south say. 
 A major problem, all acknowledge, is the absence of security, for which the president and his government still depend on foreigners, led by the United States, and now NATO.
 Afghan and international forces find themselves fighting daily battles across five provinces of the south, while casualties are rising sharply among civilians, foreign troops and government forces alike. The scale of the insurgency has virtually wiped out the government's ability to provide services in many places.
 The lack of security is not all Mr. Karzai's fault. Responsibility lies also with the American-led coalition, which promised to take care of security and cross-border infiltration. But the solution, military and civilian leaders warn, is not only military.
 ''The government has to build up in these provinces to a larger extent, to fight corruption and be present with the institutions in each of the districts and to deliver services to all of the population,'' said Tom Konigs, the head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, which monitors the administration of development aid. That includes improving local governance, development work, diplomacy and anti-narcotics efforts, he said.
 ''In each of these fields we need to be successful,'' he added. ''Otherwise we will not be able to stabilize Afghanistan.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Afghan children, left, standing around their rundown home in Kabul, the capital. At right, smoke billowed yesterday from a car-bomb attack in Kandahar, in southern Afghanistan where the Taliban are resurgent. (Photo by Ismail Sameem/Reuters)
 (Photo by Rodrigo Abd/Associated Press)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ETHICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); RIOTS (60%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Carlotta Gall; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



440 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows a Shift in Opinion on Iraq War

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Carl Hulse reported from Washington for this article, and Marjorie Connelly from New York. Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Americans increasingly see the war in Iraq as distinct from the fight against terrorism, and nearly half believe President Bush has focused too much on Iraq to the exclusion of other threats, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 The poll found that 51 percent of those surveyed saw no link between the war in Iraq and the broader antiterror effort, a jump of 10 percentage points since June. That increase comes despite the regular insistence of Mr. Bush and Congressional Republicans that the two are intertwined and should be seen as complementary elements of a strategy to prevent domestic terrorism.
Should the trend hold, the rising skepticism could present a political obstacle for Mr. Bush and his allies on Capitol Hill, who are making their record on terrorism a central element of the midterm election campaign. The Republicans hope that by expressing a desire for forceful action against terrorists, they can offset unease with the Iraq war and blunt the political appeal of Democratic calls to establish a timeline to withdraw American troops.
 Public sentiment about the war remains negative, threatening to erode a Republican advantage on national security. Fifty-three percent said going to war was a mistake, up from 48 percent in July; 62 percent said events were going ''somewhat or very badly'' in the effort to bring order and stability to Iraq. 
 Mr. Bush recorded a gain of four percentage points in how the public views his handling of terrorism, rising to 55 percent approval from 51 percent a week earlier. This was his highest approval rating on the issue since last summer and followed the arrests in Britain in a suspected terror plot to blow up airliners.
 Mr. Bush's overall standing was nevertheless unchanged from the previous week, with 57 percent disapproving and 36 percent approving, far below the level Republicans in Congress would like to see as they prepare for elections in November. 
 Compounding the Republicans' political problems, the survey reflected significant dissatisfaction with the way Congress was doing its job. Voters in the poll indicated a strong preference for Democratic candidates this fall.
 The Times/CBS News poll differed somewhat from other recent surveys showing higher approval ratings for the president. In surveys for USA Today and CNN conducted Friday through Sunday, 42 percent approved of how Mr. Bush was doing his job and gave Democratic Congressional candidates less of an edge. The Times/CBS News poll was conducted by telephone Thursday through Monday with 1,206 adults nationwide and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 According to the poll, terrorism and the war in Iraq hold about equal importance in the minds of Americans. Forty-six percent said the administration had concentrated too much on Iraq and not enough on terrorists elsewhere, while 42 percent said the balance was about right.
 The opinion of 51 percent that the war in Iraq was separate from the war on terror was a considerable shift from polls taken in 2002 and the first half of 2003, when a majority regarded Iraq as a major antiterror front. As recently as June, opinion was split: 41 percent said the war in Iraq was a major part of the fight against terror, and 41 percent said it was not a part at all. Now only 32 percent consider it a major part of the terror fight, while 12 percent rate it a minor part. 
 ''I'm just not sure there's a connection between terrorism and the war in Iraq,'' Ann Davis, a Republican homemaker in Lima, Ohio, said in a follow-up interview to the survey. She said that she supported United States troops but that ''we should not be over there, they should be able to figure it out on their own.''
 Another Republican, Marty Woll, 56, a retired accountant from Los Angeles, said he saw a clear link between the war and efforts to combat terrorism. 
 ''Iraq was obviously not the precipitating location for the 9/11 attacks,'' Mr. Woll said, ''but if you look at the Middle East as a whole, you see it has been spawning the most violent and the most desperate of the attacks. Saddam Hussein killed almost a million of his own people. That magnitude indicated that someone had to do something about it.''
 Mr. Bush's inability to improve his overall rating despite gains on the terror issue could be traced to people like Lucia Figueroa, 23, an independent from Fort Drum, N.Y., who supports the president on terrorism but faults him elsewhere. 
 ''Even though I approve of the way Bush is handling terrorism,'' Ms. Figueroa said, ''he isn't putting enough focus on other issues, like health care and Katrina, and those things need more attention.''
 As recently as Monday, Mr. Bush, in a news conference, defended the invasion of Iraq as essential to preventing domestic terror attacks and said he expected troops to stay there through the rest of his presidency.
 ''If you believe that the job of the federal government is to secure this country,'' he said, ''it's really important for you to understand that success in Iraq is part of securing the country.'' 
 Democrats in recent weeks have tried to portray the war in Iraq as a distraction from essential antiterror initiatives, and the poll indicates that the message may be working. Democrats say the war has sapped resources from tracking terrorists and bolstering domestic security. 
 ''We took our eye off the real war, the war on terror,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said in a conference call with reporters on Tuesday.
 Democrats have said the Bush administration should have kept its focus on Al Qaeda instead of moving against Mr. Hussein and suspected weapons of mass destruction.
 The public's judgment on the job Congress is doing remains largely negative, with 60 percent disapproving. Forty-seven percent of the registered voters surveyed said they expected to vote for a Democrat for the House in November; 32 percent said they would vote for a Republican. The poll could not measure the races in individual Congressional districts, but the findings were indicative of the two parties' relative strengths.
 Those surveyed said that after terrorism and the war in Iraq, the economy was the third most crucial issue for leaders to concentrate on, followed by health care costs and gas prices. The White House has sought more credit for what it considers a strong economy, and there has been an improvement in how the public views Mr. Bush on this issue. But the overall impression is still negative. 
 Thirty-five percent said they approved of how Mr. Bush was dealing with the economy, up five percentage points from a CBS News poll conducted last week; 58 percent disapproved. Over all, 52 percent of those surveyed said the national economy was in good condition, and 47 percent said it was in bad condition.
 With the recent fighting in Lebanon, the public is more pessimistic about the possibility of peace between Israel and its neighbors. Only 26 percent of those surveyed could envision Israel and the Arab countries settling their differences, while 70 percent could not -- a figure up six percentage points from last month. 
 Most of those surveyed, 56 percent, said they did not believe that the country had a responsibility to help resolve the conflicts between Israel and other Middle Eastern countries, while 39 percent said it did.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Aug. 17 through Aug. 21 with 1,206 adults throughout the United States. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike.
 Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. 
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls also have a larger sampling error. 
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Perceptions of the President, Terrorism and the War''Do you approve of the way President Bush is handling the campaign against terrorism?APPROVE: 55%DISAPPROVE: 38NO OPINION: 8Which issue is most important for political leaders to concentrate on right now?TERRORISM: 24%WAR IN IRAQ: 22ECONOMY: 20COST OF HEALTH CARE: 18GAS PRICES: 9CONFLICT BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HEZBOLLAH: 6NO OPINION: 2Do you think of the war with Iraq as part of the war on terrorism or as separate from the war on terrorism?MAJOR PART: 32%MINOR PART: 12SEPARATE: 51NO OPINION: 5Over the last couple of years, has the Bush administration focused too much on the war in Iraq and not enough on terrorists elsewhere or focused too much on terrorists elsewhere and not enough on the war in Iraq, or has the balance been about right?TOO MUCH ON WAR: 46%TOO MUCH ON TERRORISTS: 5BALANCE ABOUT RIGHT: 42NO OPINION: 7Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Aug. 17-21 with 1,206 adults. Totals may not equal 100 because of rounding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); TERRORISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%) Terrorism; Public Opinion; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%) New York Times/cbs News Poll

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Carl Hulse; Marjorie Connelly

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



441 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: In California, Deal to Raise the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and California lawmakers said Tuesday that they had agreed to raise the state's minimum wage to $8 an hour over the next two years, making it among the highest in the nation. 
 The governor had vetoed previous minimum wage bills, and had hoped to nudge this wage increase to $7.75, just $1 more than the current $6.75-an-hour minimum, which was passed in 2002. But under pressure from labor unions and the Democratically controlled Legislature, and facing re-election in November, Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, reconsidered.
Under the deal worked out between the governor and the state's Democratic leaders, minimum-wage workers would receive a 75-cent increase on Jan. 1, and an additional 50 cents in 2008. The bill needs to be approved by the full Legislature, which lawmakers of both parties said would happen by the end of the month. 
 ''I am very happy that we have made the decision together that we increase the minimum wage,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at a news conference in Sacramento. ''We have to make tough decisions, but to me this is the right decision to make.''
 ''This is an election year,'' he added. ''To get this stuff done with Democrats and Republicans just really shows a lot.''
 The states with the highest minimum wages are Washington, $7.63 an hour, and Oregon, $7.50 an hour. Both are likely to top California again in 2008 because each has set its minimum wage to rise with inflation. 
 The hourly wage that low-income workers ought to earn has become a hot-button issue around the nation as the midterm elections approach. Seven states have ballot initiatives aimed at bolstering the minimum wage, and the legislatures in several other states are contemplating increases. Congress has not raised the federal minimum wage, $5.15 an hour, since 1997. 
 Some economists said Tuesday that the California increase could have implications for the rest of the nation, but they differed on just what its effect might be.
 ''Here you have a state that is an economic powerhouse and that is economically diverse. A place that is extremely diverse is ground zero in the debate for whether state minimum wage increases are helpful or hurtful,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute. 
 In terms of sheer buying power, the wage increase announced Tuesday is by no means the highest in the state's history. In the late 1960's, the hourly minimum wage peaked at almost $10 when adjusted to 2006 dollars. Three decades later, in the mid-1990's, it fell to a 50-year low when adjusted for inflation.
 Conservative lawmakers and policy analysts suggest that raising the minimum wage leads to less lucrative employment for low-income workers. 
 ''At the federal level, when we increase the minimum wage, it always increases the number of people working for less than minimum wage,'' said Alan Reynolds, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.
 Mr. Reynolds cited federal figures showing that in 1995, 3 percent of the working population nationwide earned less than the minimum, while 4 percent earned less after the federal minimum wage was raised in 1997. ''You get people marginalized and competing for second-rate jobs,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); VETO (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); BALLOTS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HISTORY (50%) Labor; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%); JARED BERNSTEIN (50%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



442 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Reform: Is It a Success?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''A Decade After Welfare Overhaul, a Fundamental Shift in Policy and Perception'' (news article, Aug. 21) and ''How We Ended Welfare, Together,'' by Bill Clinton (Op-Ed, Aug. 22), paint a pretty picture of the effects of the 1996 welfare reform. 
 But there is another side of the story. While the number of people and percentage of the population living in poverty did decrease from 1996 to 2000, they steadily increased from 2000 to 2004, and the overall poverty rate (12.7 percent) in 2004 was the same as in 1998. 
The situation is even worse for those in deep poverty -- defined as below 50 percent of the poverty level. Their numbers have swelled by more than a million since the beginning of the reform.
 The increases in poverty since 2000 are partly due to the five-year lifetime limit on receiving benefits that was built into the 1996 law. By 2001, most families receiving such support were reaching the end of those limits, and those not able to find jobs had nothing to fall back on.
 This situation is likely to worsen in the years ahead.

David S. Mason
Indianapolis, Aug. 22, 2006

The writer is a professor of political science at Butler University.

To the Editor:
 Alas, ''welfare as we know it'' was ended by those who'd never known welfare or poverty. 
 For low-wage workers ineligible for unemployment insurance, welfare was how you made do when you got laid off or fired, including for being pregnant. It often supplemented inadequate wages. 
 For many, it gave a path out of violence. It represented a way to care for a newborn or a dying parent, get health insurance or avoid having to leave young children home alone. 
 Welfare recipients would tell you in a heartbeat that the system needed reform. But their wish list grew out of one goal: getting out of poverty. That was never the purpose of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, and it certainly wasn't the result.
 We'll resolve the problem only if we name it correctly: the need to reform work and value caregiving.

Ellen Bravo
Milwaukee, Aug. 21, 2006

The writer is the former director of 9to5, National Association of Working Women.

To the Editor:
 Congratulations about the success of welfare reform are premature. The number of women and children who live in poverty, combined with a flawed public education system and the absence of universal health care, bodes poorly for breaking intergenerational cycles of dysfunction. 
 Despite the need to double child-support payments, policy makers still focus on stiffer work requirements, extracting more hours of work from single mothers already burdened with economic and parenting stress. 
 The more balanced story, but one that poses complex and costly challenges for meaningful reform, is that of the fathers, often incarcerated or mired in drug abuse, absent in the economic and emotional lives of their families.

Sue Matorin
New York, Aug. 22, 2006

The writer is an adjunct associate professor at the Columbia School of Social Work.

To the Editor:
 As a retired administrative hearing officer for the Illinois Department of Human Services and a social justice activist, I believe that the welfare reform law was never about ending poverty. It was, rather, a salve for politically manipulated public anger at welfare recipients.
 As a hearing officer, I heard the appeals of people who faced penalties for failing to comply with the law's work requirements. Many were single mothers ''whose lives are so troubled that they are unlikely to hold steady jobs,'' as an Aug. 21 news article describes those for whom welfare ''reform'' has provided no answers.
 To end poverty, we need the political will to mandate living wages; to ensure affordable child care, health care and transportation; and to help parents who are unable to work because of illness, domestic violence or other problems.

Amy Laiken
Chicago, Aug. 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POVERTY RATES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PARENTING (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (51%) Welfare (US); Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Welfare Recipients, Employment of; Women; Children and Youth; Public Opinion; Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: BUTLER UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) David S (Prof) Mason; Bill Clinton; Ellen Bravo; Sue Matorin; Amy Laiken

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



443 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Caution: This Coalition Is Fragile 

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
It was always going to be tough for Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to hold together her fragile coalition of world powers trying to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions. The Israel-Hezbollah war in Lebanon has made that job harder.
 While Iran's official response to the package of carrots from the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China was, at 21 pages, voluminous, the key point is that Iran's leaders did not agree to suspend enrichment of uranium, the central demand of the coalition. 
Now the question is whether Ms. Rice, who returned from vacation this week and was studying Iran's response, can keep the coalition together to take out their sticks against Iran. 
 That will not be easy, in part because the entire United Nations Security Council is supposed to vote on the sanctions package. While only the permanent members can veto, the rising fear, particularly among European diplomats, is that smaller countries on the Council are so angry over how the United States, and now France, have handled the Lebanon crisis that they will give Russia and China political cover to balk against imposing tough sanctions. 
 While France, for instance, has been almost as insistent on a tough stance against Iran's nuclear program as the United States, France has also in recent days alienated many members of the Security Council by offering only 200 troops to a peacekeeping effort in Lebanon. 
 ''The Lebanese situation has caused a lot of bad faith and I think that will play into this,'' said one European diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules.
 Getting the group to punish Tehran was always going to be difficult. Russia and China have deep economic interests in Iran and dislike the blunt instrument of sanctions. And the West must tread carefully because any sanctions levied in the place that could actually hurt Iran -- its energy sector -- would ratchet up already high global oil prices and end up harming the West.
 That was the tough road Ms. Rice faced even before the Lebanon crisis began. Now, ''Lebanon has proven that there's no military solution to the problem in the Middle East,'' said Trita Parsi, the Iranian-born author of ''Treacherous Triangle: The Secret Dealings of Israel, Iran and the United States,'' which Yale University Press plans to publish next year.
 While there is no talk among the world powers right now about hitting Iran militarily, European diplomats in particular said they worried about a downward spiral if the sanctions did not work. ''They've been dragged into three wars over there by the U.S.,'' Mr. Parsi said, referring to Iraq, Afghanistan and Lebanon. ''They don't want a fourth.''
 Bush administration officials have said Ms. Rice received assurances in June that Russia would, at a minimum, sign on to a first phase of weak sanctions if Iran refused to suspend uranium enrichment. Those sanctions would most likely include a ban on travel by Iranian officials and curbs on imports of nuclear-related technology. 
 United States officials have worked hard to portray their coalition as united, and disputed suggestions that the group could fracture. ''Will there be some slippage? Sure,'' one senior Bush administration official said, speaking on condition that he not be identified because he was not authorized to talk publicly. But, he said, ''I don't think there's any question that there will be a resolution on sanctions.''
 But the initial sanctions will undoubtedly be too weak to be effective, said some diplomats, who also predicted trouble if the United States tried to prod Russia and China to take aim at Iran's energy sector. Iran sits on some of the largest known oil reserves, but is forced to import more than 40 percent of its gasoline because it does not have the refinery capacity it needs.
 What is more, China and Russia both have energy companies invested in Iran, and they, along with European countries, would likely think hard before agreeing to prohibit the purchase of Iranian oil or to limit investment in Iran's petroleum industry. 
 And if Iran has indeed held out the possibility of having talks about suspending uranium enrichment, as some reports indicated, that could further fracture the coalition.
 The United States, Britain, France and Germany planned to meet Wednesday to discuss the Iranian proposal and the prospect of drawing up a sanctions resolution. But it is notable that the meeting will not include Russia and China.
 Meanwhile, smaller Council members are suffering from enforcement fatigue, analysts said, made worse by the specter of figuring out how to implement the Council's resolution calling for a cease-fire between Hezbollah and Israel in Lebanon and the eventual disarming of Hezbollah. Iran has emerged stronger from the Lebanon crisis by showing the world that it is capable of wreaking havoc through its support of the Hezbollah militants. 
 ''Lebanon makes this worse because it creates an environment where the Iranians can say, 'If you push us, we can cause real trouble and heartache for you,' '' said George Perkovich, director for nonproliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. 
 The Iraq war has demonstrated the peril of going after strong regimes, and Israel's failure to destroy Hezbollah ''erased any doubt people had about what happens when you get real tough with bad actors,'' he said. 
 Going after Iran when Iraq, Afghanistan and Lebanon all remain unresolved would be an enforcement challenge for world leaders, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BAD FAITH (73%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (53%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; Hezbollah

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%) Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran; Lebanon; Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



444 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: This Fed Chief May Yet Get A Honeymoon 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN Robert Rubin left Goldman Sachs 14 years ago and came here to join the Clinton administration, he brought a couple of big ideas with him.
 The first -- that deficits were bad -- has become the one associated with his name. But the second was probably more profound. It was neither a particularly Democratic nor Republican idea, which explains how it has survived until 2006 and how Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman chosen by President Bush, was able to replace Mr. Rubin as its most important champion.
The idea was simply that uncertainty was an inevitable part of life and only the foolish imagined they could eliminate it. To make the best possible decisions, bond traders and policy makers alike had to weigh every relevant piece of information, estimate the risks that something unexpected would happen and then make a judgment based on the odds, aware all the while that success could not be guaranteed. They had to understand that a good decision could produce a bad outcome. That is what uncertainty meant, and recognizing it maximized the chances that they would succeed next time. 
 ''Unfortunately, Washington -- the political process and the media -- judges decisions based solely on outcomes, not on the quality of the decision making,'' Mr. Rubin wrote, with his co-author Jacob Weisberg, in his 2003 memoir, ''In an Uncertain World.'' 
 But Mr. Rubin had it pretty easy. As a White House adviser and then Treasury secretary during the 1990's, he helped guide the American economy when there weren't many bad outcomes. He didn't have to spend a lot of time defending thenuances of odds-based decisionmaking. He could just point to the boom.
 Mr. Bernanke is not so lucky. When he took over the Fed earlier this year, he inherited a leaking housing bubble, soaring energy prices, rising inflation and a weakening job market. The cover ofThe Economist marked his ascension with a cartoon of Alan Greenspan handing Mr. Bernanke a baton that was actually a stick of dynamite. 
 By most accounts, Mr. Bernanke has had a rocky first six months. But a lot of his problems have stemmed from a lack of understanding about how he makes decisions, rather than any policy mistakes. And once you realize that, you start to understand why he has recently begun to look a lot better than his critics.
 MR. BERNANKE'S troubles started with one very bad week at the end of April. Inflation was picking up even though the Fed had raised its benchmark interest rate at every policy meeting since the summer of 2004. So Wall Street was looking for evidence that Mr. Bernanke was tough enough to keep raising rates and risk a recession.
 Instead, he went before Congress and testified that the Fed might soon ''pause'' -- that is, hold the benchmark rate steady while he and his colleagues took time to assess the effects of their earlier moves. That would reduce the chances that they would overshoot, as the Fed has done so often in the past, and induce a recession. But a lot of investors and economists took the statement to mean that the rate increases were finished and that Mr. Bernanke was, horror of horrors, an inflation dove. The markets went into a minor tizzy, with bond prices rising and the dollar falling.
 He did not help himself two nights later at the White House Correspondents Association dinner, where Maria Bartiromo of CNBC asked him off camera whether investors had interpreted his remarks correctly. He carelessly said no, she later reported it on the air, and stocks fell on the assumption that there would be more rate increases after all. A panel of economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal shortly thereafter gave Mr. Bernanke a B-minus for his communication skills.
 Not even his efforts to relax were going well. At R.F.K. Stadium, where he is a regular, the Washington Nationals followed a surprisingly good 2005 by starting the new season in a terrible slump.
 But look at what's happened since April. The Fed raised its rate twice more, in May and June, and then paused this month, as advertised, even though the most recent inflation readings had been worrisome. Days after the pause, two new government reports showed that inflation was slowing, and Mr. Bernanke suddenly looked like a seer. ''Everything that has happened in recent weeks is extremely favorable,'' Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor, said. (Everything except the Nationals' performance, which remains dreadful.)
 The important point is not that Mr. Bernanke's forecast was better than Wall Street's. It won't always be, as is obvious to anyone who respects uncertainty. The Fed may still have to raise rates again to subdue inflation -- as Michael Moskow, president of the Chicago Fed, suggested in a speech yesterday -- and end up pushing the economy into recession as a result.
 What matters most about these last six months is that Mr. Bernanke has shown us how he will run the Fed. Mr. Greenspan also thought about policy in terms of risks and odds, rather than black-and-white alternatives, which is a big reason that he and Mr. Rubin got on so well. But Mr. Bernanke will often do his thinking out loud.
 He likes to describe a three-step process in which the Fed announces its forecast, its goals and its plan for achieving them, much as he did in April. Investors, executives, home buyers and everyone else will then have a sense of how coming economic data might alter the path of interest rates. Eventually, this should help people plan for the future and reduce volatility in the markets.
 ''Signaling the likely action at the next meeting is not sufficient for effective policy making,'' Mr. Bernanke said in 2004, when he was a Fed governor under Mr. Greenspan. The Fed also needs to communicate ''the whole trajectory'' of its likely policy.
 In the short term, this openness will create some confusion, especially when Mr. Bernanke says something that seems to be at odds with the most recent morsel of data.
 ''It's taking the markets a little bit of time to catch on,'' said Mark Gertler, an economist at New York University and a longtime friend of Mr. Bernanke. ''But I think they are catching on.''
 Which would be nice. Mr. Bernanke is conducting monetary policy with two big assumptions: that he and his colleagues are capable of mistakes and that the rest of us are capable of nuanced thought. So far, only one of those assumptions has been correct.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben Bernanke

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); RECESSION (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); WRITERS (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (64%); HOUSING BUBBLE (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) David Leonhardt; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



445 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Fired or Quit, Tom Cruise Parts Ways With Studio 

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and GERALDINE FABRIKANT; David M. Halbfinger reported from Los Angeles for this article and Geraldine Fabrikant from New York. Allison Hope Weiner contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Citing Tom Cruise's yearlong metamorphosis from pure box-office phenomenon to pop-culture punch line, Viacom's chairman, Sumner M. Redstone, said Tuesday that Paramount Pictures was ending its 14-year relationship with the actor's production company.
 Mr. Cruise's representatives insisted that they had not been fired but instead had quit and had already lined up $100 million in financing to produce movies on their own. 
Either way, the parting of the ways was anything but amicable. And it came as the latest sign that the media conglomerates that control Hollywood are growing impatient with the megastars who earn the highest salaries.
 Last year, Mr. Cruise seemed to sprout cracks in his megawatt-smile facade: jumping up and down on Oprah Winfrey's couch to declare his love for the actress Katie Holmes; assailing Brooke Shields for taking prescription drugs to treat postpartum depression; and speaking out publicly against psychiatry and for his religion, Scientology.
 Mr. Cruise's third installment of the ''Mission: Impossible'' series has earned nearly $400 million worldwide and could earn half again that much from DVD sales. But its weak opening weekend in May left Paramount executives believing that the negative attention and mockery of Mr. Cruise had hurt the film. Worse still, Mr. Cruise's rich chunk of the profits could leave the studio barely breaking even.
 After weeks of negotiations to extend a production deal, Mr. Redstone said Tuesday that Paramount had given up.
 ''As much as we like him personally, we thought it was wrong to renew his deal,'' Mr. Redstone told The Wall Street Journal, which first reported the studio's decision on its Web site. ''His recent conduct has not been acceptable to Paramount.''
 One person who had been briefed by Viacom executives said the studio did not want to renew the contract for a production deal that had been reported to cost as much as $10 million a year. ''It was a huge reduction in the size,'' according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''The issue was the cost of his overhead and his executives. All the studios are getting out of these kinds of relationships.''
 But Paula Wagner, Mr. Cruise's partner in Cruise-Wagner Productions, said in an interview Tuesday that she and Mr. Cruise had, sometime ''in the last few days,'' told their agents at Creative Artists Agency to inform Paramount that they were terminating the contract talks.
 Ms. Wagner said that she and Mr. Cruise had already obtained commitments from two hedge funds, one in New York and one in Los Angeles, for $100 million in revolving credit to make movies, and that they had begun looking for a new distribution deal.
 ''This is something we've dreamt of, to have an independently financed production company, where we can decide the films that we make, from high-concept to more personal pictures,'' she said. ''I think we're in the forefront of a trend.''
 As for Mr. Redstone's allusion to Mr. Cruise's conduct, Ms. Wagner fired back, ''I have no answer for a stupid statement.'' She speculated that Mr. Redstone was ''trying to save face,'' having learned from Wall Street chatter of Mr. Cruise's hunt for alternative financing.
 A spokesman for Mr. Redstone, Carl Folta, scoffed at Ms. Wagner's talk of new financial backers. ''Did they give you a name?'' he said. 
 About Mr. Cruise, Mr. Folta said, ''It's a business decision, and it's based on his behavior.'' 
 Ms. Wagner said through a spokesman that the hedge funds' names would be announced soon.
 It is still unclear how Mr. Cruise's agency, Creative Artists, will respond to Paramount's public slap at one of America's most visible stars. The agency is the most powerful in Hollywood, and a decade ago a studio would have risked war by publicly denigrating a client like Mr. Cruise.
 Rick Nicita, Mr. Cruise's agent -- and Ms. Wagner's husband -- did not respond to a call for comment. A spokesman for Creative Artists did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
 Eric Weissmann, a Hollywood lawyer since the 1950's, said that what was most surprising about the Paramount-Cruise split was that the studio could simply have decided not to renew the contract. ''They don't have to give a reason, and to go public is highly unusual,'' he said. ''This is not a way to get Tom Cruise to cut his fee down. This is cutting the ties.''
 While Paramount's decision was a shock to the Hollywood status quo, the way in which it was revealed was another sign that movie studios are playing rougher with stars they once coddled, one senior movie studio executive said.
 Most recently, ABC canceled a production deal with Mel Gibson's company for a mini-series about the Holocaust after he made anti-Semitic statements while detained for drunk driving. And the head of Morgan Creek Productions wrote a scathing letter scolding the actress Lindsay Lohan for unruly behavior during a movie shoot; the letter was quickly leaked to the news media.
 ''I think the press has become the weapon of choice for these people,'' said the studio executive. ''These companies are sick of being pushed around. This is indicative of a huge paradigm shift in the industry in terms of what constitutes a star and how much power a star has.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Cruise during his eventful appearance with Oprah Winfrey. (Photo by www.tvgasm.com)(pg. C1)
 Tom Cruise in ''Mission: Impossible III.'' The relatively weak opening of the movie in May worried officials at Paramount Pictures. (Photo by Stephen Vaughan/Paramount Pictures, via Associated Press)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Top Cruise''The top 15 domestic grossing films, adjusted for inflation, that Tom Cruise has starred in.RANK: 1.TITLE: Top GunSTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: $305.0NOT ADJ.: $176.8DATE: 1986RANK: 2.TITLE: Rain ManSTUDIO: MGMBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 277.1NOT ADJ.: 172.8DATE: 1988RANK: 3.TITLE: Mission: ImpossibleSTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 262.1NOT ADJ.: 181.0DATE: 1996RANK: 4.TITLE: Mission: Impossible IISTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 255.8NOT ADJ.: 215.4DATE: 2000RANK: 5.TITLE: The FirmSTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 244.8NOT ADJ.: 158.3DATE: 1993RANK: 6.TITLE: War of the WorldsSTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 234.3NOT ADJ.: 234.3DATE: 2005RANK: 7.TITLE: A Few Good MenSTUDIO: ColumbiaBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 218.3NOT ADJ.: 141.3DATE: 1992RANK: 8.TITLE: Jerry MaguireSTUDIO: SonyBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 217.1NOT ADJ.: 154.0DATE: 1996RANK: 9.TITLE: Interview With the VampireSTUDIO: Warner Bros.BOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 160.8NOT ADJ.: 105.3DATE: 1994RANK: 10.TITLE: Minority ReportSTUDIO: FoxBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 145.5NOT ADJ.: 132.1DATE: 2002RANK: 11.TITLE: Mission: Impossible IIISTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 133.5NOT ADJ.: 133.5DATE: 2006RANK: 12.TITLE: Risky BusinessSTUDIO: Warner Bros.BOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 129.1NOT ADJ.: 63.5DATE: 1983RANK: 13.TITLE: Days of ThunderSTUDIO: ParamountBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 125.1NOT ADJ.: 82.7DATE: 1990RANK: 14.TITLE: CocktailSTUDIO: Buena VistaBOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 121.8NOT ADJ.: 78.2DATE: 1988RANK: 15.TITLE: The Last SamuraiSTUDIO: Warner Bros.BOX OFFICE GROSS, MILLIONSADJ. FOR INFLATION: 116.6NOT ADJ.: 111.1DATE: 2003(Source by Box Office Mojo)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); DEPRESSION (68%); PSYCHIATRY (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); WEB SITES (50%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Finances; Credit; Motion Pictures; Hedge Funds

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (84%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Viacom Inc; Paramount Pictures; Cruise-Wagner Productions

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (54%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (94%); SUMNER REDSTONE (89%); OPRAH WINFREY (68%); KATIE HOLMES (58%) Sumner M Redstone; Tom Cruise; Paula Wagner; David M Halbfinger; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



446 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Rival Tries to Make Most of Liberal Anger

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
As Ned Lamont basks in his Democratic primary victory in Connecticut, another antiwar underdog is trying to assume the same role of political giant-killer in next month's elections in New York, though against much bigger prey: Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 But while Mr. Lamont united liberals and used $4 million of his own money to win his primary, Jonathan Tasini is struggling on a shoestring campaign to rise above his 12 percent standing in the polls, even as he hawks a message of left-wing anger over Iraq to an electorate that is more liberal than Connecticut's.
Mr. Tasini has qualified for the Sept. 12 primary ballot against Mrs. Clinton, and his positions on the Iraq war, the death penalty and gay marriage are in step with the progressive groups and liberal bloggers that contributed volunteers, money and buzz to Mr. Lamont. Yet some of these partisans say they are deeply reluctant, and in some cases scared, to criticize or abandon Mrs. Clinton, who supported the invasion of Iraq. 
 They cite her power in the Democratic Party and her careful positioning that has made her, if not antiwar, then a sharp critic of the administration's handling of Iraq, Hurricane Katrina and the economy. 
 A former union leader, tireless and impolitic, Mr. Tasini has stirred some enthusiasm among voters -- even young women, who are the Clinton core -- and he is increasingly well received by liberal audiences, based on interviews with voters and time spent watching him work crowds.
 One reason for the enthusiasm is Mr. Lamont's upset win over Senator Joseph I. Lieberman; some people wonder if some of that success could be replicated in New York. But Mr. Tasini has raised only $200,000 to Mrs. Clinton's $44 million, and she has undercut his best shot at visibility by refusing to debate him.
 ''I'm the eternal optimist, and I have two reasons to be optimistic: 65 percent of people don't know me, and 62 percent solidly oppose the war,'' Mr. Tasini said in an interview, referring to recent polls. ''But Hillary is being incredibly antidemocratic by not debating me even though I am on the ballot.''
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Senator Clinton, said his camp would ''see how the campaign plays out'' before making a final decision on a debate. But Mr. Wolfson pointedly added that the New York race would not be a replay of the Connecticut primary two weeks ago.
 ''The bottom line is that Hillary Clinton is no Joe Lieberman and Jonathan Tasini is no Ned Lamont, and no amount of increasingly over-the-top attacks from Mr. Tasini will change that reality,'' he said.
 Mr. Wolfson was referring to a series of remarks by Mr. Tasini over the last several months: He has blamed Mrs. Clinton personally for the deaths of 2,500 American service members and others in Iraq, for instance, as well as ''tens of thousands of Iraqis.''
 Mr. Tasini, who, at 49, has never run for public office before, is a complicated political animal. He has even been sharply critical of Mr. Lamont, arguing that he is insufficiently antiwar and would never have won without spending $4 million of his own money. 
 Mr. Lamont, like Mrs. Clinton, has also strongly supported Israel in the ongoing conflict with Lebanon, while Mr. Tasini -- who has many family members in Israel -- has chastised Israel for its bombing and invasion of Lebanon.
 Mr. Tasini can come across as smart, credible, self-effacing, bombastic, self-aggrandizing and haughty, sometimes all in one conversation. Asked about his huge deficit in public opinion polls, Mr. Tasini can spin like a veteran politician: ''If 100 percent of the population knew me, would I get all 62 percent of the antiwar vote? Well, maybe not all.''
 Some members of the National Writers Union, which Mr. Tasini led from 1990 to 2003, have openly described him as an opportunist, and his response is couched in characteristic hyperbole.
 ''I don't think I walk on water, but I am not the devil incarnate,'' he said.
 Mr. Tasini was born in Houston but spent part of his childhood in New York State and now lives in Washington Heights, in Manhattan. He earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of California, Los Angeles.
 To many antiwar partisans and liberal groups, Mr. Tasini is also not enough of a threat to Mrs. Clinton to be useful in pressuring her over Iraq. They say that instead of intervening in the primary race, it is more important to keep Mrs. Clinton as an ally and try to influence her foreign policy in friendly ways, since she could well become a presidential candidate in 2008. Otherwise, some fear, she might freeze them out. 
 James Dean, the head of Democracy for America, a grass-roots group that fervently supported Mr. Lamont, said he planned to stay on the sidelines in the Clinton-Tasini contest.
 Mr. Dean said that his group was not scared to take on Senator Clinton over Iraq, but that there was ''a time and a place'' for such challenges -- and spurning her within her own party did not make sense.
 ''I think progressives are a lot more pragmatic than people think, and there are only so many battles that you can pick in one election year,'' said Mr. Dean, whose brother, Howard Dean, inspired the group during his presidential bid in 2004. ''Hillary has also clearly been a critic of the administration.''
 Roger Hickey, a co-director of Campaign for America's Future, a liberal group that praised the Lamont victory, initially declined to speak about Mr. Tasini's bid. He agreed to comment on the New York race only in relatively narrow terms.
 ''Hillary by and large is a team player in terms of Democratic Party politics, and there's one issue -- the war -- where we all felt she should have changed her position and where she is very slowly modifying to an antiwar position,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''The Connecticut race required one tactic from activist groups, a frontal tactic, and other races require other sorts of tactics.''
 Markos Moulitsas, whose blog, the Daily Kos, championed Mr. Lamont, was more blunt in explaining why he had not taken up Mr. Tasini's banner.
 ''I fed off the excitement and energy Lamont created amongst Connecticut activists and bloggers,'' Mr. Moulitsas wrote in an e-mail message. ''I see none of that energy or excitement for Tasini.''
 Mr. Tasini said he had a chicken-and-egg problem: Groups like MoveOn.org say their New York members are not excited enough about Mr. Tasini to become involved in the race, yet these groups have not systematically polled members to determine that.
 As a result, Mr. Tasini has had little help with introducing himself to voters. Some of them are not sure what to make of him, anyway.
 Tramping across picnic blankets before the outdoor movie in Bryant Park on Monday night -- ''Take off your shoes,'' people yelled -- Mr. Tasini drew skeptical glares as he bellowed: ''New York Democrats? Any Democrats here?''
 Here and there he was invited to make his pitch: that Senator Clinton ''supports criminalizing flag-burning,'' ''supports discrimination against gay couples on marriage,'' and ''supports the Yankees even though I'm the lifelong Yankees fan.'' He was clearly grateful for any attention.
 Out of 20 voters who talked to Mr. Tasini, about half said in interviews afterward that they would consider voting for him. Among those were a group of young female voters, a demographic that the Clinton camp views as part of its core support.
 ''I think Senator Clinton's more of an opportunist, like supporting the war and now really criticizing it,'' said Sarah Kaufmann, 23, a teacher in NewYork. ''I hadn't heard much about that guy before tonight, but he sounded like he cared about Democratic ideals.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Tasini, a Democratic candidate for Senate, in Bryant Park. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Jonathan Tasini, 49, an underdog challenger in the Democratic primary, hopes to make Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton the next Joe Lieberman. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); LIBERALISM (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%); MARRIAGE (54%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (54%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%) Election Issues ; Primaries; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%) Jonathan Tasini; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Ned Lamont; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; George W (Pres) Bush; Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) New York State; Iraq; Connecticut; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



447 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Iran Rejects West's Plan To End Nuclear Program
Iran responded to a set of incentives from Europe and the United States aimed at ending its nuclear program, but did not agree to suspend the enrichment of uranium by the end of the month, the West's primary demand. Western diplomats said Iran's refusal would probably lead to calls for imposing sanctions. A1

Hezbollah Complicates U.S. Aid 

Relief agencies in Lebanon that receive money from the United States are barred from giving out aid through Hezbollah, but the group controls the most demolished areas in southern Lebanon and little seems to bypass them. A1

A Lack of Confidence in Karzai
After months of widespread frustration with corruption, the economy and a lack of justice and security, doubts about President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan have led to a crisis of confidence within the country. A1

Russian Plane Crash Kills 169
A Russian airliner flying from a Black Sea resort to St. Petersburg crashed in Ukraine, killing all 169 people aboard, officials said. A3

Cease-Fire Reached in Congo
United Nations officials struck a cease-fire deal with warring militias in Congo after peacekeepers plunged into the fray and rescued foreign diplomats trapped by the fighting. A12

Mixed Views on Terror Charges
News of the charges brought against 11 of the suspects in the alleged plot to blow up airliners on trans-Atlantic flights elicited a wide array of emotions from the residents in the area of London where several suspects lived. A12

German Plot May Be Wider
A top German security official said the two Lebanese men suspected of planting bombs on two German trains might have had support from a network of Islamic extremists in Frankfurt and in Lebanon. A12

NATIONAL A14-20

Federal Study Finds Charter Schools Lagging
Fourth graders in traditional public schools do significantly better in reading and math than comparable children attending charter schools, according to a federal report. A14

Shift in View of Iraq War
Americans increasingly see the war in Iraq as distinct from the fight against terrorism, and nearly half believe President Bush has focused too much on Iraq to the exclusion of other threats, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll. A16

California To Raise Wage
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and California lawmakers said they had agreed to raise the state's minimum wage to $8 an hour over the next two years. A16

Potential Conflict of Interest
The federal judge who ruled that President Bush's wiretapping program was unconstitutional serves as a trustee and officer for a nonprofit group that has given at least $125,000 to the American Civil Liberties Union in Michigan, one of the plaintiffs in the case. A19

Highway Death Rate Increases
The rate of deaths in highway accidents rose in 2005 for the first time in almost 20 years as a result of an increase in accidents involving motorcycles and pedestrians, the federal government said. A20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Defining What a Planet Is
A committee appointed by the International Astronomical Union revised and then revised again the definition of a planet. One new definition would set up a three-tiered classification scheme. A20

2 New Studies on Weight
Modestly overweight baby boomers will live shorter lives, according to two new studies. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Antiwar Partisans Hesitant To Aid Clinton Challenger
Some of the progressive groups and bloggers that contributed money, volunteers and buzz to Ned Lamont's primary win over Senator Joseph I. Lieberman in Connecticut are reluctant to aid another antiwar Democratic Senate hopeful, Jonathan Tasini, who is challenging Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York. A1

Arrest in 1976 Murder
A career criminal who spent 16 years in prison but has been married, working and living in the Bronx for the last five years was arrested on charges of stabbing a New Jersey woman to death 30 years ago, when he was only 13. B1

Memory and Loss
The World Trade Center Memorial Museum began mounting photographs on the fence that runs around ground zero in preparation for ''Here: Remembering 9/11,'' an exhibition opening tomorrow. B5

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

A Big Payday for Humiliation
Scheduling easy wins is a tradition in college football. But after the National Collegiate Athletic Association approved the addition of a 12th regular-season game for the coming season, the appearance fees began climbing, some as high as $600,000, in a bidding war for games against college football's worst teams. A1

ARTS E1-12

New Life for Yiddish Treasures
Eli Broad, a Los Angeles financier and philanthropist, has donated $186,000 to pay for cleaning, restoration, archiving and a permanent display for a trove of Yiddish theater relics. E2

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Ex-Banker's Case Dropped
Criminal charges against Frank P. Quattrone, a former technology banker, have been dismissed. The government's retreat is the first time that prosecutors have dropped such a prominent case without seeking any penalty. C1

AOL's Ethical Dilemma
When AOL researchers released three months' worth of users' search logs to a public Web site last month, academic researchers had to balance a thirst for useful data against concerns over individual privacy. C1

Eye Fungus Conclusion
Federal disease control experts and leading eye doctors concluded that ReNu with MoistureLoc from Bausch & Lomb was the only contact lens solution contributing to an outbreak of fungal eye infections earlier this year. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Safe drug testing in prisons; pension giveaway; the Democrats' new calendar; seeing the dark.

Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword: E2
Obituaries: B7
TV Listings: E11
Weather: C10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); IRAQ WAR (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); RESORTS (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (62%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); JUDGES (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); WIRETAPPING (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UKRAINE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



448 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Clarify Iraq Mission In Coming Election

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''In Election Push, Bush Faults Talk of Iraq Pullout'' (front page, Aug. 22) quotes President Bush as saying at a news conference: ''These are challenging times, and they're difficult times, and they're straining the psyche of our country.'' 
 Straining the psyche of the country? Does this president have any concept of reality?
The country's psyche is disgusted with the war in Iraq. Even the generals charged with waging war and winning the peace are privately saying that civil war is now a fact of life. 
 The puppet government is ineffective, the police force is a disaster, and there is virtually no infrastructure left to support the economy. 
 I hope that Mr. Bush gets his wish that ''we clarify the different points of view'' in the November elections. This is a failed president and a failed policy. Let's heed the Democrats and begin an orderly pullout of American troops before more are lost or physically and emotionally wounded. 

Henry A. Lowenstein
New York, Aug. 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 President Bush creates conditions that contribute to an increase in the threat of terrorist activity against Americans, then faults those who favor changing those conditions, claiming that they create a more dangerous world. Talk about circuitous reasoning.

William D. LeMoult
Barrington, R.I., Aug. 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 Reading accounts of President Bush's news conference, I was struck by his repeated phrase regarding withdrawal from Iraq: ''before the job is done.'' Most Americans would want a definition of ''the job.'' 
 If by ''job'' Mr. Bush means a stable democracy in Iraq, peace between Sunnis and Shiites, secure borders and elimination of terrorists, and secure oil fields, isn't he exercising wishful thinking of the unattainable?

Ed Early
Stamford, Conn., Aug. 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BORDER CONTROL (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLICE FORCES (54%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; Ed Early; William D LeMoult; Henry A Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006



449 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2381 words

HEADLINE: The Housing Virgins

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
BEN SNYDACKER is just 21, and a freshly minted New Yorker. Tall and brash, he's enjoying his third month in his new job, as a sales assistant for Virgin Records, and his new apartment, a minute space creatively described as a two-bedroom in a rank 19th-century tenement building on Avenue B that he shares with a college roommate (monthly rent: $2,600). It has been a summer of firsts for Mr. Snydacker, a Skidmore graduate: after scuffling in the city's rental market, a sometimes-lawless agora peopled with good guys, bad guys and all the shape-shifters in between, Mr. Snydacker has emerged a little tougher and, emotionally, a little older. He is no longer a housing virgin.
 ''It was probably the second most stressful experience of my life,'' he said the other day. ''That is, if I retained any memory of having had meningitis when I was 6 months old.'' 
It's late August, and an annual Manhattan roundelay is winding down. The new college graduates have been pouring into town from all over the country since June, short of money and time but long on hope, specifically the hope of finding a safe haven on this island, which is to say a legal rental for under $1,500 a bedroom. (Williamsburg and beyond is a bridge too far for much of this crowd.) With vacancy rates at 0.78 percent, and rental prices up 15 percent over last summer, ''these apartments are in high demand and usually disappear within 24 hours,'' said Gordon Golub, senior managing director at Citi Habitats, the largest rental agency in the city. 
 ''Year by year for the past three years,'' he continued, ''there has been more and more hiring by large firms at the entry level. And so within a tight rental market, this particular market is extremely tight.''
 And the fees are higher. Three years ago, agents were, in many cases, negotiating their fees down to 8 percent; some landlords were even paying agent's fees directly. Today, agents typically charge 15 percent of a year's rent (which, depending on seniority and performance, they share with their companies at rates of between 20 and 60 percent). 
 Additionally, landlords require three months' rent up front (first, last and a security deposit), though in some cases, if the credit history of a tenant is weak (or non-existent) and the salary not large enough, they might extract a larger deposit or ask for a guarantor. The formula for salary requirements is between 40 and 45 times one month's rent, or about $120,000 for a $3,000-a-month apartment. That sum is well beyond the reach of tenants like Mr. Snydacker, whose starting salary at Virgin is $35,000; in such cases, a parent will often serve as a guarantor. With their laptops filled with postings from the online marketplace Craigslist and Backpage, the Village Voice's online listing service, the new New Yorkers have encountered every dodge and near-scam that Manhattan's so-called ''rogue'' brokers have to offer -- the bait-and-switch, the unreturned fees, the fake bidding wars. By this week, for the most part, they will have found housing, which they'll accessorize with a flat-screen television and maybe a few pieces of Ikea furniture, upon which their friends will sprawl and hear the war stories of the summer of 2006.
 Here's Mr. Snydacker's: With a job that began on June 5, he was camping at his dad's apartment in Connecticut and commuting an hour and a half each way, each day, into the city. He started off by replying to individual postings on Craigslist, but he grew leery of meeting agents on street corners and seeing one-bedroom apartments that had been advertised as two. 
 ''I felt like it was time to go to a big agency so there'd be accountability,'' he said. ''I didn't want to be making deals on street corners with these agents who were saying, 'Please don't go in my office.' They were trying to undercut their own companies.'' 
 But size did not guarantee fair play, he said. An agent at one of the larger firms showed him a two-bedroom in the far East Village, on the heels of another showing by another agent for the same apartment. 
 ''Then it was a race to see who could get their application in first,'' said Mr. Snydacker, who drew $500 from an A.T.M. as a kind of place holder, for which the agent wrote out a receipt. Apartments are not taken off the market until an application has been approved and the certified checks duly cashed, but a $500 deposit shows a landlord a would-be renter's good faith during the application process. It's typically returned, or applied to the broker's fee or the rent itself. 
 ''Except when I arrived with all our checks to sign the lease,'' said Mr. Snydacker, ''the guy refused to give me the money back. He said we needed two receipts. He was pretty aggressive, and there was a moment when I thought, 'I'm already spending $5,000, what's another $500?' But my dad called a lawyer, and then called the broker, who then got really aggressive with me. I called customer service at the agency, and they were pretty decent. They said, 'Don't worry. Come in and get your money.' '' 
 Mr. Snydacker took his roommate to the agency's office, where he said the agent scowled beetle-browed and silently counted out a stack of $20 bills onto his desk. Just as silently, Mr. Snydacker said, he counted them, and left.
 ''I don't know why this guy felt like he had a right to be angry with me,'' said Mr. Snydacker. ''But he was furious. He's a big guy, and it was pretty scary.'' 
 CRAIG NEWMARK, the founder of Craigslist (and a San Francisco resident), said last week that monitoring the site's New York City housing section is ''my biggest single project, actually. When you are in a situation where you feel everyone else is cheating,'' he said, ''a lot of people feel a moral sanction that they can cheat, too.''
 ''Over the years we've been telling brokers that's not O.K., and over the years the less ethical behavior is slowing down,'' he said. ''On the other hand, there are some persistent bad guys, and the worst of them I've reported to New York State's Department of State. Real estate in New York is a blood sport. It's not like anywhere else.'' 
 Mr. Newmark has taken to dropping in on real estate agencies unannounced when he is in Manhattan. ''I'm letting them know I am really committed and that I really exist. I've had a few cases, specifically three, where people have reported problems getting a fee back, and in each case I've talked to the agent and gotten it back.''
 Last summer, Ann Marie Yoo, a 23-year-old Columbia graduate now working as a health care consultant, and two of her college roommates applied for an apartment in Morningside Heights. They lined up their financial ducks in three days, she said, but when Ms. Yoo arrived in the agent's office with her sheaf of certified checks, her agent announced that the landlord had given the apartment to someone else. 
 ''I never felt like the broker was looking out for us,'' she said, ''and he was really impatient through the whole process. He tried to get us to stay, to keep our deposit for another apartment, but I'd had it.'' 
 This is when she made her move from a large agency to ''a completely random agent on Craigslist,'' said Ms. Yoo. 
 ''He was the sketchiest man,'' she said, ''and the apartment was -- eh. But the location was just so prime and he said 'We don't do credit checks and we only charge 12 percent.' '' And so Ms. Yoo and her friends once again assembled the sheaf of certified checks. On the morning of the lease signing, the agent called Ms. Yoo three or four times to say he was stuck on a train, he was on his way, he would meet her on a corner near her Midtown office. 
 ''I'm waiting, and 10 minutes goes by, and then 20, and he pulls up in huge, grimy white minivan, and says, 'Why don't you step inside?' '' Ms. Yoo remembered. ''And I'm wondering what all the stuff about the subway was, as I say, 'No way am I going to step inside your van!' He starts giving me grief, saying stuff like, 'I don't feel like working with people who don't trust me.' And I'm freaking out because I think we're going to lose the apartment, even though there's no way I'm getting in the van. So I'm begging him to take the checks, to guarantee me the apartment.'' 
 But the agent drove away, leaving Ms. Yoo gape-mouthed on Madison Avenue, after making another appointment to meet that evening at a Starbucks near the apartment.
 ''I take my roommates with me,'' Ms. Yoo went on to say, ''because there's no way I'm going to meet him alone, and as we're walking to the apartment with the keys he calls me on the whole thing again. He literally said something to the effect of, 'You're not comfortable with me because you're Asian,' and I'm like, 'No, I'm a young woman alone in the city.' ''
 ''Brokers always provide you with an experience you never forget,'' she concluded wryly. 
 Some young graduates forgo the rental scene altogether, hopping from one couch or futon to the next, hoping their friendships and their welcomes don't wear out too quickly.
 Lani Fortier, 24, spent eight months of her first year out of the University of Connecticut in the Mercy Ships program, which uses former ocean liners-turned-floating hospitals to provide medical treatment to developing nations. 
 When Ms. Fortier joined, her ship was moored off Liberia, where in addition to assisting the ship's doctors, Ms. Fortier played on the Liberian women's soccer team and rebuilt an orphanage that had lost all its funding. 
 Ms. Fortier and a business partner are now in Manhattan starting their own charity, Charityis.com, to pay for projects like Mercy Ships. Ms. Fortier, who said she hopes to make $500 a week once the charity is operating, is sleeping on a futon in the postage-stamp-size West Village living room of her best friend from New Hampshire, and another roommate, Jessica Flint, an editorial assistant at Vanity Fair. 
 Ms. Flint, who has lived in four apartments in four years since graduating from Miami University in Ohio (including a room in the apartment of an unemployed woman who'd racked up $1,000 in cable charges she tried to foist on Ms. Flint) has a particular soft spot for Ms. Fortier.
 Ms. Flint also offers advice to newbie Manhattanites: she and her friend Cate Edwards, daughter of John Edwards, the 2004 Democratic vice-presidential candidate, have a blog, www.urbanistaonline.com, a kind of Zagat-like lifestyle guide.
 ''My experience was so bad,'' Ms. Flint said, ''I feel fine about Lani staying here.''
 One morning last week the two new roommates were perched on ''Lani's room,'' a black futon Ms. Flint bought last year. Ms. Fortier's possessions were tucked inside her sister's red suitcase, which was parked demurely in the long front hall of the apartment. She left many of her things in Africa, she said, including her own suitcase. ''In hindsight, giving away most of my clothes was maybe not a good thing,'' she mused.
 Ms. Fortier will stay as long as she's welcome, which, judging from Ms. Flint's demeanor, could be many months. She's been living out of a bag for so long, she said, it's no hardship. ''And this is a very nice futon,'' she said, patting it approvingly. ''Nice and thick!''
 Ms. Flint's own tiny room is rather stunning, with canvases painted in lavender and pale green and laid out like a puzzle on one wall, a chandelier that pours like a baby fountain from the ceiling and sheer lavender curtains she's stenciled with a few lines from ''The Great Gatsby.'' 
 It's the part about how Manhattan looks from the Queensboro Bridge, though Ms. Flint has substituted the word ''penthouse'' for the bridge because ''last year I lived in a penthouse,'' she explained, and then quoted her version. 
 ''The city seen from the penthouse is always the city seen for the first time,'' it reads, ''in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.''
 Ms. Flint is very happy to be home. 

Finding an Apartment Without Being Taken
 THE best sources for apartment listings in Manhattan are online, at craigslist.org and backpage.com, the Village Voice's listings. As a result of efforts by volunteers who police Craigslist for listing abuses, and the attention of the site's founder, Craig Newmark, bad behavior on Craigslist is diminishing. Backpage may still be a bit unruly, said Jonas Sigle, chief technical director at the rental agency Manhattan Apartments Inc. and one of many self-appointed ''policemen'' trawling Craigslist. 
 Since June, another factor that has cut down on listing mayhem is the $10 charge that Mr. Newmark has required of all fee apartments posted on his listing service. The charge has winnowed down a big annoyance: multiple postings of the same apartment by the same agent. Since new postings appear higher on the Craigslist Web page, repeated postings of the same apartment were a Darwinian strategy followed by most agents, resulting in a blizzard of listings. (Almost as quickly as the $10 charge policy was initiated, many agents began posting on owner-only sites, where no charges are levied.) 
 Not all agents are rogues, of course. In evaluating an agent, Mr. Sigle recommends looking out for someone ''who knows the product, knows what kind of accounts -- or landlords -- are going to accept what kind of application.'' In other words, he said, ''will they take students or someone who needs a guarantor? Someone who is clear and honest and upfront.'' 
 Beware of agents who will not disclose their agencies; you want the protection of a customer service department or an office manager should something go awry. 
 Leroy Frazier, a special prosecutor in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, said that the amount of outright fraud in the rental market has remained constant from year to year, and mostly has to do with people offering apartments that don't exist or don't belong to them. 
 ''I would certainly advise not renting an apartment entirely online,'' he said. ''I would inspect the apartment, and while inspecting it, I would try and talk to a neighbor or, better, the super -- someone who can document that you've been there.'' Always create a paper trail with certified checks or a credit card, never cash.
 It's a big red flag, he said, if someone tries to talk you out of doing any of the above. PENELOPE GREEN


GRAPHIC: Photos: DESPERATELY SEEKING -- Lani Fortier, top, who can't find an apartment, calls a friend's futon home
Ben Snydacker, right, in front of his hard-won East Village rental. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. F8)Drawing (Drawing by Maximilian Bode)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); MENINGITIS (53%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



450 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: New Signs Of Cooling In Housing 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The housing market is deteriorating by the month.
 In the latest and strongest indication that the home buying and selling frenzy is over, the National Association of Realtors reported yesterday that sales of previously owned homes fell to the lowest level in July in more than two years, prices flattened and sellers waited longer and longer to find buyers for their homes. The supply of unsold houses on the market hit a record high.
Economists said the data showed the housing market was following the traditional path of a slowdown: a drop in sales followed by a decline or a plateau in prices. But they remained divided over just how severe and long-lasting the coming slump was likely to be. 
 ''It does feel a little scary right now,'' said Celia Chen, director of housing economics at Moody's Economy.com. ''I think these markets will correct. The price gains that they have seen have exceeded what can be supported by the economic and demographic fundamentals.''
 Existing-home sales in July declined 4.1 percent from the previous month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.3 million, the slowest selling pace since early 2004, when sales were running at a rate as low as 6 million.
 ''We had a hot market, and now it's going to be back to normal,'' said Edward Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''Sales volumes will continue to decline, although they'll bottom out sometime in the next year.''
 The median selling price for existing homes, which rose at double-digit rates for much of the previous two years, was up only slightly last month. And had home prices not continued to rise in the South, where they gained slightly more than 3 percent compared with a year earlier, the national rate would have fallen.
 For the second consecutive month, the median price of an existing home in July rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier, to $230,000.
 ''Certainly, the housing market is undergoing a measurable adjustment,'' Lawrence Yun, senior economist with the Realtor association, said. ''It's a continuing cooling trend.''
 The number of unsold homes on the market reached a record for the second consecutive month. There are now enough homes available that it would take 7.3 months to sell them all if the current selling rate held.
 The bloated inventory levels, Mr. Yun said, indicate ''a very sudden change which I have never seen before.'' 
 The slowdown means that housing, the sector of the economy that has helped carry the country through a period of rapid expansion, now could act as a drag on growth.
 Most economists, including the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, still expect the slowdown to be orderly. But with homebuilders reporting a sharp pullback in interest in new homes, existing-home sales in many local markets now look set to weaken at least a while longer.
 July's data showed that prices fell in most areas of the country. Only in the South are prices still rising: the median home there sold for 3.2 percent more last month than a year earlier. If prices there had not been so strong, the national median home price in July would have declined on a year-over-year basis. That has not happened since April 1995.
 ''That's a good indication of an unexpected decline in demand,'' said Michael Carney, a professor of finance and real estate at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona.
 The sales and price declines were most pronounced on the East and West Coasts, where the housing market had overheated the most. In the Northeast, where median existing-home prices rose last year by 10.7 percent, prices fell 2.1 percent in July from the same month in 2005.
 Sales in the Northeast fell 5.4 percent from the previous month.
 In the West, which is dominated by California, prices fell 0.3 percent in July. Last year, they rose 17.7 percent. Sales in the region declined 6.4 percent last month.
 While prices are sliding, most economists are still predicting that they will not fall very far. 
 ''The trend here is one of stabilizing prices after the sharp gains seen for many years,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, wrote in a research note yesterday. ''While certainly a change in trend, so far the official data are not corroborating some of the more alarmist stories being bandied about recently.''
 Investors saw yesterday's housing data as a reason to pull down shares of major real estate companies and homebuilders. KB Homes, the builder, and Realogy, the country's biggest residential real estate broker, which was recently spun off from Cendant, lost the most of any stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index yesterday. Shares of KB fell 6 percent, and shares of Realogy fell 5 percent. 
 Realogy told investors that its earnings for the year would be lower than previously expected. Earlier this week, Toll Brothers, the largest luxury-home builder in the country, also said it would earn less money this year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Homes offered for sale and rent in Genoa Township, Ohio. The housing market has slumped the most on the East and West Coasts. (Photo by Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg News)(pg. C6)Graph: ''Weaker Outlook''The number of unsold homes on the market, after hitting a record in June, climbed even higher last month. Sales of existing homes fell in July from last year, with the steepest declines in the West and Northeast. The South is holding up better, leaving it the only region where prices were still up from a year ago.Graph tracks Inventory of existing homes for sale since the 1980's.Graph tracks Existing home sales* In July, chg. From year ago.(Source by National Association of Realtors)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); INVENTORIES (68%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



451 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop After Plunge in Home Sales 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped the most in three weeks as a plunge in sales of previously owned homes heightened concern that the economy was headed for a slump.
 ''The trend in housing is certainly dismal and it looks like there is more bad news to go,'' said Jon Brorson, a fund manager in Chicago for Neuberger Berman, which oversees $117 billion. ''Investors ought to be cautious.'' 
The homebuilder KB Home and the Realogy Corporation, a residential real estate broker, led declines in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Sales of existing homes fell last month to the lowest in more than two years, and the number of unsold homes set a record, the National Association of Realtors reported. The data followed comments Tuesday by Michael H. Moskow, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, that a decline in housing might hurt the economy.
 The S.& P. 500 slid 5.83, or 0.5 percent, to 1,292.99, the biggest decline since Aug. 1. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 41.94, or 0.4 percent, to 11,297.90. The Nasdaq composite index fell 15.36, or 0.7 percent, to 2,134.66.
 Home resales fell to an annual rate of 6.33 million in July. That figure was the lowest since January 2004 and trailed economists' forecast of 6.55 million.
 The number of unsold homes at the end of July jumped to 3.86 million, the highest since records began in 1999, as rising mortgage rates made purchases less affordable.
 A gauge of homebuilders in S.& P. indexes dropped 2.9 percent. KB Home fell $2.66, or 6.2 percent, to $40.53, for the biggest loss in the S.& P. 500. The company said it was reviewing some stock options awarded to its chief executive, Bruce E. Karatz. The options were granted at unusually low points in the company's stock price, The Wall Street Journal reported.
 The homebuilder Pulte Homes retreated $1.02, to $28.09, and its rival, the Lennar Corporation, fell 73 cents, to $44.33. Realogy, owner of the Century 21 and Coldwell Banker real estate brokerage firms, fell $1.07, to $20.23.
 United States Treasuries were little changed, keeping yields on benchmark 10-year notes near the lowest since March, after the housing report. Yields on 10-year notes were unchanged at 4.81 percent. The price was unchanged at 100 1/2.
 The dollar was little changed against the euro, erasing an earlier decline that followed the economic data.
 The currency traded at $1.2795 to the euro, from $1.2796 a day earlier, after weakening to $1.2852. It was at 116.30 yen, from 116.57.
 Crude oil for October delivery fell $1.34, or 1.8 percent, to close at $71.76 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have jumped 18 percent this year, partly on concern that Iran, the fourth-biggest oil producer, may curb shipments because of a dispute over its nuclear program.
 Gold futures for December delivery declined $1, or 0.2 percent, to $633 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices earlier reached $639.80, the highest in almost a week.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); STOCK OPTIONS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); EURO (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: REALOGY CORP (84%); LENNAR CORP (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (84%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (57%); KB HOME CORP (57%); COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (52%); PULTEGROUP INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (84%); KBH (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (84%); NAICS541191 TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT OFFICES (84%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (84%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



452 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: As Foreign Investment Rises, India Addresses Security Concerns

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
As foreign investors blanket the country, India is preparing with a ramp-up of its own: an expansion of its security laws to thwart possible threats from rapid globalization.
 Amid perhaps overly sensitive concerns that some foreign investments might step into areas of national security, the government is drafting legislation to block overseas companies from doing business in India if they are perceived as security risks.
''As investors flood vital sectors such as telecommunications, media, airlines and ports, our priority is to bring in comprehensive safeguards,'' said Kamal Nath, minister of commerce and industry. He added, ''The intention is not to curb entry of overseas capital but to ensure that money from undesirable origins does not enter critical sectors.''
 Amid the unprecedented momentum of foreign investment, top officials from various ministries, including Mr. Nath's own, held their first meeting earlier this month to discuss security risks. While legislation is likely within the year, the government has asked the Foreign Investment Promotion Board and state-owned firms to screen out investments seen as potential threats. 
 The legislation being completed by the National Security Council, and even the temporary measures, are expected to have a wide-ranging impact on foreign direct investment, mergers and acquisitions, and even on overseas participation in tenders by government-owned departments and firms.
 ''The government is arming itself to intervene over and beyond current investment policy,'' said Alok Shende, director of the information communication technology practice at the consultancy firm Frost & Sullivan, who predicts delays and a rash of accusations over unfair use. 
 Until a few years ago, foreign investments were limited to minority stakes, so security issues were manageable as ownership and management control remained with Indians. But that has changed drastically, Mr. Shende said.
 Foreign investments in the country's fiscal year, which ended in March, totaled $5.7 billion. According to official projections, overseas direct investment is expected to touch $10 billion in the current year. A chunk of this investment can still flow in easily, particularly for minority stakes or certain approved industries. 
 Unlike the United States or Europe, India does not have a formal framework for overseeing security concerns in economic decisions. ''Because of the rise of terrorism, security clampdowns are intruding on decision-making in most democracies in the world,'' said Dr. V. S. Arunachalam, a robotics expert at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and a former military adviser to the Indian government. 
 Already, there are signs that security concerns have made politicians uneasy about recent economic decisions. For instance, last month Communist parties objected to the appointment of Papa Stefanou Yanni, a Greek chief operating officer, to the newly privatized Delhi International Airport. They argued that a foreigner should not be allowed to manage operations at an airport where high-security flights carrying the president and the prime minister land and take off. 
 Deciding whether foreign investments conflict with national security interests will be tricky. The consortium that won the bid to manage the Delhi airport -- consisting of Indian, German and Malaysian companies -- said the tender required the presence of an experienced foreign partner. The German partner, Fraport, had in turn brought in the chief operating officer from abroad. ''He has managed 20 airports in his career and it is just incidental that such an industry veteran is of Greek origin,'' said Arun Arora, a spokesman for the Delhi International Airport.
 The proposal for a new law was first made shortly after terrorist bombings in July ripped through the main commuter train system in Mumbai, the country's financial hub. In the last couple of months, the Indian government has experienced an increase in threats, from baleful e-mail messages to the president to bomb hoaxes at various cities' airports and offices. Additionally, investigating agencies said they had found links between the Mumbai terror attacks and terror cells they say may be operating in neighboring Pakistan and Bangladesh through mobile and Internet networks. 
 So in critical areas like telecommunications, officials in different ministries agree that strict screening of investors has become important, particularly because the government last year raised the ceiling for foreign investments in telecom to 74 percent, from 49 percent. It still requires foreign investments over 49 percent, however, to be submitted for government approval. The government is considering a test case right now, Hutchison Essar, a joint venture between the Indian conglomerate Essar Group and Hutchison International, a telecom company controlled by Li Ka Shing of Hong Kong that has a strong presence in emerging markets. Last year, Hutchison International sold a 19.3 percent stake to Orascom Telecom of Egypt, which gave Orascom a 12 percent holding and the right to nominate a director on Hutchison Essar's board.
 Essar wrote to the Indian government seeking to clarify whether such a share transfer, which the companies considered rather indirect, required prior government approval. Orascom, it said, operates networks in a number of countries including Pakistan. ''As a major shareholder, we cannot let an unknown entity surreptitiously come into the joint venture,'' said Vikash Saraf, chief executive of the Indian partner, Essar Teleholdings. 
 The government has yet to respond, Mr. Saraf said, though investment rules clearly require regulators to ban investments from ''unfriendly'' countries. Mr. Nath, the minister, said the government was still examining how changes in the shareholding structure could have an impact on the management of Indian firms like Hutchison Essar. 
 Even before the Mumbai train bombings, government intelligence agencies had sought stricter scrutiny of the licensing for importing of telecommunication equipment. India is the world's fastest-growing telecom market, and the world's largest equipment makers -- Motorola, Nokia, Ericsson and Chinese companies like Huawei Technologies and ZTE Corporation -- are lining up to corner market share.
 The Foreign Investment Promotion Board turned a cold shoulder to an application in March 2005 by Huawei Technologies, one of China's largest electronics equipment makers, to get a trading license for its India unit. The government has also snubbed the company's application for setting up a manufacturing base in India and expanding its existing research and development facility in Bangalore. Local newspapers reported that India's security agencies were concerned about the company's past links to China's military establishment. 
 A spokesman for Huawei Technologies, who declined to be named because he did not have authorization from his headquarters to speak publicly, said the company was at a ''competitive disadvantage'' but maintained that the proposed national security law was unlikely to have any further impact on its status.
 Historically, India has had a troubled relationship with its northern neighbors Pakistan and China.
 In another recent case, after months of agonizing, India's cabinet in July denied security clearance to three Chinese firms trying to bid for container terminal projects at Mumbai and Madras, also known as Chennai, in India's recently privatized port sector. The companies included Hutchison Port Holdings, which operates the Karachi international container terminal in Pakistan.
 Meanwhile, such curbs may permeate other areas as well. For instance, the government will soon mandate that an expert panel of scientists and intellectual property specialists scan all foreign investment in research and development in rapidly expanding areas like drugs, where India is emerging as a global hub. Companies, mainly from the United States, have invested more than $1 billion in research operations in the country, and investments totaling more than three times that are in the pipeline. 
 Alongside all this, the government is anxious to dispel any impressions that the security law is unfriendly to investors. Mr. Shende, the analyst, said the government did not wish to discourage much-needed foreign investment in sectors like infrastructure. Mr. Nath, the minister, agreed that the government would try to reduce delays and dispel notions of subjectivity while filtering proposals. 
 Mr. Nath added, ''If we have said no, everybody will know why.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kamal Nath, India's minister of commerce and industry, says he does not want investment from questionable sources to enter the economy. (Photo by B. Mathur/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MERGERS (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); ROBOTICS (63%); TERRORISM (50%) Foreign Investment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Security and Warning Systems; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: Kamal (Min) Nath; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



453 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Rapidly Changing Signs at the Gas Station Show Markets at Work

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
THE recent gyrations in oil prices offer a textbook illustration of how financial markets and commodity markets interact.
 Oil prices are notoriously volatile, particularly when times are tense in oil-producing countries -- just about all the time these days. So when BP announced this month that it might have to suspend as much as 8 percent of the nation's oil production because of corrosion in pipes on the North Slope of Alaska, the price of crude oil immediately shot up by 3 percent and wholesale gasoline prices simultaneously increased by about 2 percent.
But why? Even if it will cost more to produce gasoline in the future, gasoline being sold today was made with cheaper oil. This must be a rip-off, right? 
 Actually, no. The reason behind the quick price change is a phenomenon known as storage arbitrage.
 To spell out the argument, imagine that you own a storage tank full of gasoline that is currently worth $2 a gallon at wholesale prices. It is widely believed, however, that the price of gasoline will be $2.10 next week.
 You would be crazy to sell your gasoline now: just wait a few days and the higher price will be yours. But if everyone waits a few days, there is no gasoline to be sold now and the resulting shortage pushes the price of gasoline up.
 How high does it have to go? The answer is $2.10 a gallon. That is the price necessary to induce those who have gasoline to sell it now rather than to wait till next week.
 This argument does not depend on whether you think the gasoline market is a paragon of perfect competition or an evil oligopoly. All it requires is that you believe that people who own gasoline, like just about everybody with something to sell, prefer to receive a higher price rather than a lower price.
 Even if the price of gasoline were set by a perfectly benevolent conservationist, we would expect to see the same pattern of price movements. If oil will be scarcer in the future because of the BP pipeline shutdown, we would want to conserve the already-produced gasoline that we have now. That means that the price of gasoline has to rise right away to prevent hoarding and to encourage conservation.
 Storage arbitrage arguments were featured in a recent article in the Sunday Business section of The New York Times with the headline ''Is a Futures Stampede Keeping Oil Prices High?'' The article described a provocative report written by Ben P. Dell, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, that blamed speculation in oil futures markets for high oil prices.
 Mr. Dell's argument was that inexperienced institutional investors had been investing in contracts for future delivery of oil, driving up futures prices. If the price of oil to be delivered in the future goes up, it has to pull the current spot price up as well.
 There is no risk associated with holding the oil in storage since owners can sell futures contracts, collecting a payment now to deliver the oil later. If you don't happen to have a tank of oil in your backyard, that is not a problem: just go out and buy some on the market. The article pointed out that on Aug. 4 it was possible to ''buy heating oil in New York Harbor at $2 a gallon and store it and sell a future to deliver it in December for $2.24.''
 Perhaps Mr. Dell is right that speculation in the oil futures market is driving up spot prices. But we should not expect that to be the normal situation. As long ago as 1953, Milton Friedman argued that speculation normally helps to stabilize prices rather than destabilize them.
 Mr. Friedman's argument was applied to currency trading, but the same reasoning works here. If speculative trading tends to push prices higher when they are already high and lower when they are already low, then traders must be buying high and selling low.
 That would mean that traders have to lose money on average -- which does not seem very likely. To the contrary, speculative traders try to buy low and sell high, activities that by their nature tend to push prices up when they are too low and down when they are too high.
 Since Mr. Friedman's 1953 article several papers have been published, both supporting and attacking this argument. But the general principle seems quite robust.
 Mr. Dell's report specifically cited the rush of new and inexperienced traders into commodities markets as the cause of the current problems. Mr. Friedman's argument was a long-run argument: speculators who bought high and sold low would be driven out of business.
 But there is no reason speculators cannot lose money in the short run, particularly if they are inexperienced. Mr. Dell says that storage facilities are now close to capacity, which will make it more difficult to play the arbitrage game in the future. Indeed, crude oil prices have declined nearly 8 percent in the last two weeks.
 If speculators start to worry that the price of oil could soon be significantly lower, some of that stored oil would come back on the market, pushing spot prices down, and offering welcome relief to consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); CARTELS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (75%); DIVESTITURES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%) Drugstores; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Garages and Service Stations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Rite Aid Corp; Brooks Pharmacy; Eckerd Pharmacy; Jean Coutu Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Michael Barbaro; Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



454 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE MIDEAST CRISIS: THE KIDNAPPERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Gaza Captors Of 2 Newsmen Pressure U.S. 

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
An unknown Islamic group on Wednesday issued a sweeping demand for the release of all Muslim prisoners held in the United States in exchange for two Fox News television journalists seized at gunpoint last week in Gaza.
 The group, calling itself the Holy Jihad Brigades, had not claimed responsibility for the abductions or made any demands until Wednesday, when it released a statement along with a video of the two men, Steve Centanni, 60, an American based in Washington, and Olaf Wiig, 36, a cameraman from New Zealand.
More than a dozen Westerners have been kidnapped in the Gaza Strip in the past two years, though in every case, they were released unharmed, and almost always within 24 hours. By contrast, the video and the demand for the release of prisoners on Wednesday echoed kidnappings by Islamic militant groups in Iraq, Pakistan and elsewhere. And it was another sign of the worsening security situation in Gaza one year after the Israelis pulled out.
 Moreover, the statement released Wednesday was the first time that kidnappers in Gaza had made a broad political demand that transcended the immediate Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
 ''We will give you one chance that will not be repeated -- the liberation of Muslims detained in American prisons in exchange for the detainees in our hands,'' the statement said. ''If you satisfy our condition, we will keep our promise.''
 The statement made references to the Koran but was not more specific about the Muslim prisoners whose release was sought. The statement said the United States had 72 hours to decide, beginning at noon Wednesday, and did not say what would happen if the demands were not met. 
 In the video, Mr. Centanni and Mr. Wiig were sitting cross-legged and barefoot and appeared relaxed as they spoke to the camera.
 ''We are alive and well,'' Mr. Centanni said. ''We are in fairly good health. We get lots of clean water, food every day. Access to a bathroom, shower, clean clothes and our captors are treating us well.''
 Mr. Wiig added, ''If you could apply any political pressure on the local government here in Gaza and the West Bank that would be much appreciated by both Steve and myself.''
 The two men were traveling in an armored car in Gaza City on Aug. 14 when armed men stopped the vehicle and forced them out at gunpoint.
 Gaza is plagued by armed factions, and it was not immediately clear whether the group claiming responsibility was a real group or just a cover for an existing faction. 
 Still, Palestinian factions have long insisted that their battle is only with Israel, and it is highly unusual that the statement singles out the United States for denunciation. 
 The statement condemned the American military presence in Iraq and Afghanistan, saying, ''The powers of evil are united in waging wars against Islam and their people.''
 Israel says it is concerned that groups like Al Qaeda are trying to infiltrate Gaza, particularly since Israel withdrew from the territory, though there has been no hard evidence to date that this has happened. 
 For many years, Palestinians have welcomed foreign journalists, aid workers and other Westerners in Gaza. Palestinian officials, militant groups and citizens are normally willing, even eager, to speak to journalists. Even after heavy fighting broke out in 2000, Western journalists were able to operate with relative freedom in Gaza.
 However, the territory has grown increasingly lawless in the past couple of years as Palestinian government authority has largely collapsed, while armed groups, some of them nothing more than criminal gangs, have proliferated.
 In contrast to Iraq, where many kidnapped Westerners have been killed, kidnapping victims in Gaza often said that they were treated more like guests than hostages and that they did not feel threatened during their brief captivity.
 Gaza kidnappers have usually been seeking jobs in the Palestinian security forces or the release of a relative held in a Palestinian prison. Kidnappers have often told their captives that they have no interest in harming them, but that Westerners serve as extremely effective bargaining chips when dealing with the Palestinian Authority.
 In many instances, the Palestinian Authority has quietly met the demands of the kidnappers after the hostages were released.
 The tape on Wednesday was released to a television production office in Gaza City. Al Jazeera, the Arab satellite channel, initially broadcast the tape, though Fox News and other news organizations also showed parts of it.
 Fox officials and Mr. Wiig's wife, Anita McNaught, a television journalist, have been in regular contact with Palestinian Authority officials who say they are trying to secure the release of the men.
 ''We're encouraged that our colleagues appear to be alive and well in the tape that was released today,'' said John Moody, Fox's senior vice president for news editorial. ''We trust that the abductors understand they are responsible for Steve and Olaf's welfare and safe return. We ask for their immediate release.''
 In Washington, the State Department said it would not give in to the kidnappers' demands. ''We don't make concessions to terrorists, and we continue to call for the release of these journalists without conditions,'' said a State Department spokesman, Gonzalo Gallegos, according to The Associated Press. 
 The Palestinian prime minister, Ismail Haniya, told his cabinet on Tuesday that the government was ''looking to win the immediate and unconditional release of the two journalists.''
 The Palestinian interior minister, Said Siam, who is in charge of the police and other branches of the security services, said Wednesday that efforts to find the men were under way. But the Palestinian Authority says it has been unable to contact or negotiate with the kidnappers.
 In this case and in the previous abductions, Palestinian authorities have denounced the kidnappings and have said that they harm the Palestinian cause.
 Raji Sourani, director of the Palestinian Center for Human Rights, said the kidnapping phenomenon had grown in Gaza because the Palestinian Authority had ''failed to impose the rule of law against those who have violated it in broad daylight.''
 But he also criticized Israel for what he said was an extremely harsh response to the June 25 seizure of an Israeli soldier, who is being held by Palestinian militants in Gaza. The increased violence, along with the political and economic pressure imposed by Israel, has ''created a very dangerous environment,'' he said.
 Since the abductions, some Western news organizations have pulled their journalists out of Gaza.
 American diplomats have warned that there are credible threats that additional kidnappings could take place in Gaza, while the Foreign Press Association in Israel warned its members to ''exercise extreme caution in the coming days.''
 Israel and the Palestinians remain locked in a standoff over the Israeli soldier who was seized, Cpl. Gilad Shalit. After his capture, Israel's military forces, which pulled out of Gaza a year ago, returned to the territory and clashed almost daily with Palestinian militants.
 Israel is demanding the soldier's unconditional release, while the Palestinians seek an exchange for prisoners held in Israeli jails. Egypt has served as a mediator, but the talks appear to have stalled.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A group calling itself the Holy Jihad Brigades released a video yesterday of two kidnapped journalists, Steve Centanni, right, and Olaf Wiig. (Photo by Ramattan News Agency, via Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (93%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Palestinians; Kidnapping; News and News Media

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Holy Jihad Brigades (Islamic Group); Fox Entertainment Group Inc; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: Greg Myre; Steve Centanni; Olaf Wiig

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



455 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: The Housing Bubble

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your warnings about the risks facing the economy as the housing market deflates are well taken (''Hold the Champagne,'' editorial, Aug. 19). 
But the real problem in this story is the fact that the Federal Reserve allowed the housing bubble to inflate to ridiculous levels in the first place. There is no pretty way to deflate an asset bubble, as should have been apparent from the collapse of the stock bubble between 2000 and 2002.
 The Fed, and most of the economics profession, has largely chosen to ignore the dangers posed by asset bubbles. The American economy, and possibly the world economy, will pay a large price for this decision in the next few years.

Dean Baker
Washington, Aug. 19, 2006

The writer is co-director, Center for Economic and Policy Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (92%); HOUSING BUBBLE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Center for Economic and Policy Research

PERSON: Dean Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



456 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Suing Competitors, Calling Illegal Workers Unfair

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Frustrated by what they see as lax enforcement of immigration law, some businesses are suing competitors, accusing them of hiring illegal workers to achieve an unfair advantage.
 Businesses and groups opposing illegal immigration call the suits an effort to create an economic deterrent against hiring illegal workers. 
''We see the legal profession bringing to this issue the kind of effect it's had on consumer product safety,'' said Michael Hethmon of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, one group backing the efforts.
 In the first of what are to be a series of lawsuits, Global Horizons, a Santa Monica temporary-employment agency that supplies farm workers, brought a case Monday against two competitors and a grower. Companies planning to file additional suits include farms and factories that depend heavily on immigrant labor, said David Klehm, the lead lawyer for cases in Southern California.
 Similar cases have been brought in the past by employees claiming violations of federal antiracketeering laws, and have yielded mixed results. But the Global Horizons suit, legal experts say, is believed to be the first taking aim at illegal immigration on the basis of a state's unfair-competition laws.
 Global Horizons claims in the suit that Munger Brothers, a grower, hired illegal immigrant workers from Ayala Agricultural Services and J & A Contractors. All the defendants are based in the Central Valley, California's agricultural spine.
 The suit says that Global Horizons had a contract with Munger Brothers to provide more than 600 blueberry pickers this spring but that the grower broke the agreement so it could hire illegal immigrants.
 ''Competitors' hiring illegal immigrants is hurting our business badly,'' said the president of Global Horizons, Mordechai Orian. 
 Javier Rodriguez, manager of Ayala Agricultural Services, said that he had not seen the suit but that the company did not hire illegal immigrants.
 Messages left with Munger Brothers and J & A Contractors were not immediately returned.
 Legal experts said the cases could be difficult to win. Under the California statutes, plaintiffs must prove that a competitor directly harmed their business, and ''unless you've got smoking-gun evidence, it's hard to tie economic loss of one business to another's practices,'' said Niels Frenzen, a law professor at the University of Southern California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); FARM LABOR (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); LITIGATION (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LAWYERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); REFUGEES (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Agriculture; Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Hiring and Promotion; Suits and Litigation; Immigration and Refugees; Migrant Labor

ORGANIZATION: Global Horizons; Munger Brothers

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); BIHAR, INDIA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



457 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: Storm's Escape Routes: One Forced, One Chosen

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
The small van, painted a heraldic bright green, is planted like a flag amid the frenetic commerce of Midtown, claiming a speck of territory for Louisiana. Customers line up at the window to order New Orleans-style snowballs: fluffy concoctions of ice, flavor and condensed milk so delicate they immediately begin to puddle in the heat.
 To Kenneth Woodfin, an entrepreneurial 26-year-old who fled New Orleans a year ago as Hurricane Katrina approached, the van is not only his first business venture, but also an emblem of his family's new, more prosperous life in Atlanta. His younger sister works the window. His older sister, a bank teller, makes substantially more than she did back home, and her husband has landed his first white-collar job, at a car rental company. The couple is looking for a house to buy.
''It took some getting used to, but now I'm like, I love this place,'' Mr. Woodfin said. ''It was like an eye-opening experience.'' 
 Among Atlanta's thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees, the Woodfins are not an anomaly. Many came here by choice and have put down roots, embracing what they say is a higher standard of living and melting into thriving neighborhoods almost without a trace. Some evacuees have even turned down offers to return home and resume their old jobs.
 But for many New Orleanians who went west instead of east, especially those borne by fate rather than preference, exile has been a very different experience. 
 In Houston, it can seem as if the storm never ended. Many evacuees remain in restless limbo, unable to return home but alienated from their new city. Some are still reeling from trauma, others complain of discrimination against people from New Orleans. Still others have lapsed into old habits of unemployment and crime. 
 No matter where they ended up, of course, evacuees are not at peace over the destruction of their homes and communities. Everywhere, people are struggling with stress-related illnesses, insurance companies, nightmares and even basic needs like stable housing. 
 But the divergent experiences of those who went to Houston and those who went to Atlanta suggest that recovery depends on more than individual resources and demographics. Just as important are less quantifiable factors: a sense of welcome and connection, the presence of friends and family, even how narrowly they survived the disaster. 
 Atlanta's evacuees, more likely to have left New Orleans before the flooding, often express enthusiasm for starting over in a place where even dishwashers start at $7 an hour. It is not unusual to hear people here declare the hurricane a net positive in their lives. In Houston, a city that offers similar economic opportunity, the mood lies on the far side of resignation, closer to homesickness and despair.
 ''It's different from New Orleans as far as opportunity, but they don't want to open it up to people from Louisiana,'' said Alphonso Thomas, a 34-year-old evacuee in Houston. ''Over 90 percent of the people here are either suicidal or hopeless.''
 Houston is home to nearly twice as many evacuees as Atlanta -- an estimated 150,000 are there now, compared with a more manageable 84,000 in Atlanta, which partly explains the difference. 
 According to a recent study by Appleseed, a public interest law group, the huge numbers of evacuees in Houston strained resources like housing, despite the outpouring of money and help.
 But there is a second, perhaps more significant, difference. It dates back to the storm itself, and whether people were willing or able to get out of its way.

Finding Their Way
 At the invitation of the mayor, Houston received busload after busload of people who had lived -- some just barely -- through the flood and its dark aftermath. Thousands came directly from the hellish conditions of the Superdome, arriving with nothing but the clothes they were wearing. Although they were grateful -- ''Thanks Houston'' bumper stickers soon appeared -- they had not chosen their destination, and many knew not a soul in town. At one point, more than 27,000 people were staying at the Astrodome and its supplemental shelters.
 But those who came to Atlanta had not waited until the storm hit. Once the hurricane warnings began, many came on their own steam, often in their own cars (the Woodfins, for example, had a caravan of three). That proved to be a tremendous advantage, because a lack of transportation has been a leading complaint for less fortunate evacuees in both cities. 
 And many evacuees felt more at home with, even inspired by, Atlanta's long tradition of black leadership and success. 
 While several New Orleans congregations have started thriving churches in Houston, none can boast a $500,000 donation from Tyler Perry, the black entertainment mogul and New Orleans native. Mr. Perry, who now lives in Atlanta, gave that money to Greater St. Stephen Full Gospel Baptist Church, a New Orleans congregation that opened a branch in an Atlanta suburb and says its membership there has soared.
 Long before the hurricane, more New Orleanians had moved to Atlanta than to any other city, so evacuees had places to stay and familiar faces to guide them. 
 ''Definitely it helped us, just in terms of getting around, because Atlanta is a huge city,'' said Anita Roberson Taylor, whose daughter had moved to Atlanta a month before the storm. ''She opened her home to us.''
 That network also gave a boost to people like Anthony Fields, Mr. Woodfin's brother-in-law, who was having trouble finding a job until he ran into an old New Orleans friend who had been in Atlanta for two years and managed a car rental company. 
 The friend got Mr. Fields an interview for a sales agent position, which normally requires a college degree. Mr. Fields, 22, who formerly worked as an electrical assistant, got the job. 
 Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Fields said, had given him the push he needed to get ahead. ''Some may be blind to the fact,'' he said, ''but when all is said and done, it was a good thing.''

Some Work as Others Wait
 If the DNA of cities could be tested, Houston and Atlanta, each with metropolitan populations of just over five million, would be a close match. Both are sprawling, adolescent Sun Belt behemoths whose idea of density is a two-story apartment complex. Unemployment is low, as is the cost of living (though not compared with New Orleans). Atlanta, if anything, is the more competitive city, with slightly higher prices and rents. 
 But it is Houston where the mayor, Bill White, has resorted to publicly pleading with able evacuees to go to work. A survey in June of the 90,000 evacuees in the city's free housing program, commissioned by the city from Zogby International, showed that only a fifth were employed. (Another 60,000 evacuees were not in the program and are thought to be families with greater resources and skills, many of whom like Houston and are thriving.)
 Still, the mayor's reasoning was clear. More than 5,000 jobs are available in Houston, Mr. White said, and nearly 70 percent of the adult evacuees in the housing program were wage earners before the storm. Only about a third, including the elderly and disabled, were on federal assistance. The problem was, though, that most of those who had worked made less than $15,000 a year, many at hotel and restaurant jobs that are not as abundant in Houston. Nearly a third are 55 or older, and most are single women, many with young children. More than 40 percent have no health insurance.
 There is no comparable demographic information about the storm evacuees inAtlanta. But even though about the same percentage of evacuees in both cities lived in public housing before the storm, the widely held perception is that Atlanta got a majority of the New Orleans professional class. Interviews with pastors, officials at aid agencies and job counselors suggest that finding employment has been far easier here. 
 Many evacuees did not even bother to ask for help, said Mark O'Connell, the president of United Way in Atlanta, leaving civic leaders uncertain of what was needed. 
 ''I have to believe the largest number of evacuees self-navigated,'' Mr. O'Connell said. ''This community, like Houston, was willing to do anything. The challenge for us all along was knowing what to do.''
 Angela Stewart, who evacuated to Atlanta with her husband and two other couples, quickly found a teaching job that paid almost as well as her previous position as an assistant principal and bought a new, larger house.
 ''Everyone is working,'' Ms. Stewart said of the six adults, ''all the kids are in school, and things are just moving along. We have just picked up a new life here -- very different, but very nice.'' 
 Many of Houston's evacuees say they are trying to find work. In the city's survey, more than half reported that they were still looking for a job, and a quarter said they had submitted 10 applications or more. Some, like young mothers who had relied on family networks for survival, required training as basic as what to wear to a job interview. But even people with white-collar experience or graduate degrees have reported trouble finding a job. Others, still uncertain about whether and when they will return home, have not yet looked.
 The hurdles in Houston include lower wages, more rigorous qualifications, and a reluctance to invest in employees who might return home at any time. D. B. Spurlock, who taught school in New Orleans, said he failed the Texas teacher certification test. Mr. Spurlock now works seven days a week as a security guard, for $8 an hour. Shawna Kimbrough, a carpenter and welder, said she had been offered the same wage, $8 an hour, for work that paid twice that back home. At age 70, Lutisha Smith said, she had to go back to school to qualify for the same job, nurse's assistant, that she was paid more money to do in New Orleans. 
 Wallace J. Forte, 57, an experienced forklift operator, said he was being offered entry-level positions at $6 an hour. ''They look at you, like, 'Tough,' '' Mr. Forte said. 
 All the same, Mr. Spurlock said he and his family would sooner move from Houston to Atlanta or Florida than return to New Orleans. ''I want a change of life,'' he said. ''I feel like the government's giving you an opportunity to get on your feet with FEMA.''

Battling a Mind-set
 ''Shake your neighbor's hand and tell them, 'This won't last long,' '' said the pastor from New Orleans, bellowing to the displaced flock of the New Home Family Worship Center on a recent Sunday in the rented ballroom of a Houston Hilton.
 ''This won't last long!'' the congregation said.
 ''If you get to the point where you feel like you want to jump off a building, or swallow you some pills, remember: it's temporary,'' the pastor, Robert Blakes Jr., said. ''It's not going to last. Shake your neighbor's hand and tell them, 'It's temporary.' ''
 ''It's temporary!''
 Mr. Blakes's mention of suicide was more than rhetorical excess. Depression and symptoms of post-traumatic stress have plagued evacuees in Houston, in part because of a pervasive sense of isolation. Unlike in Atlanta, where integration was rapid, the sheer number of evacuees in Houston has ensured that they have remained a separate category of resident, one other Houston residents regard with ambivalence. 
 The local news, first filled with proud stories of the city's superhuman welcome, followed with reports of evacuees fighting in schools, crowding public clinics and, worst of all, contributing to a significant spike in the city's crime rate. In Atlanta, that kind of news was rare.
 ''I think they feel discouraged because they're being so stereotyped right now,'' said Sandra Dorsey, an evacuee working at another transplanted church in Houston. ''It's almost like everything that happens is because of people from Louisiana. If you're not strong, that can overtake you.''
 While those who fled to Atlanta before the storm watched the devastation on television, many Houston evacuees lived through it, and their memories of chaos and corpses are persistent. It was several months and two hospitalizations before Rosemary Thomas, 75, realized she needed treatment for anxiety.
 ''When I'd wake up in the morning, I felt like I was dying, because I was seeing the same thing over and over and over,'' said Ms. Thomas, who went to Houston after being guided by rescuers through chest-high water. ''And I could still see the last body. I remember his arm. Like a tree or a log.''
 While Mr. Blakes followed his congregants to Houston, his brother Samuel, also a pastor in New Orleans, opened another New Home church in Atlanta. But on a recent Sunday, Samuel Blakes delivered a very different sermon, one that centered on the importance of delegation and setting priorities. It was not a rallying cry for the dejected, but an admonishment to the busy, those who might be too preoccupied with new jobs, new houses and new schools to remember that God comes first.
 Not all who came to Atlanta have had such pleasant distractions. Jobs for the unskilled are hard to come by, and employers have complained about high absenteeism, said Jennifer Moore, a job counselor for evacuees, adding that her most challenging clients brought with them a healthy sense of entitlement to government handouts, even as they needed prodding to take advantage of training, child care and eye exams. Mental distress, family strife, evictions and substance abuse are on the rise, Ms. Moore said. The elderly, in particular, long to go home.
 But Samuel Blakes, who describes his congregation as predominantly working class, said most were not looking back to New Orleans. 
 ''I've had nothing but positive feedback, and I've heard nothing but positive things,'' Mr. Blakes said. ''For a lot of people, it's just deliverance from a poverty mind-set. It's been a real liberation where their minds are concerned. They've had the opportunity to see real possibilities.''

Tomorrow: In the small stores and factories of New Orleans, uncertainty and fear.

The Katrina Year
 This series will examine the lasting effects of Hurricane Katrina a year after it struck New Orleans and the Gulf Coast. The series, along with video, an interactive graphic and additional photographs, is available online at nytimes.com/katrina.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lauren Ogg, 11, chose raspberry at the business Kenneth Woodfin started in Atlanta. He left New Orleans last year as the hurricane neared. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
METROPOLITAN ATLANTA -- Bishop Paul S. Morton at the Greater St. Stephen Full Gospel Church, a branch of a New Orleans church that opened in Decatur after the storm. The church received a $500,000 gift, and attendance has soared. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
HOUSTON -- Reginal Johnson, seated at right, a former New Orleans resident, was directed to another table as he tried to determine his status at a housing forum this month. Many evacuees have struggled to find work and settle down. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)
Then and Now -- Elvira Smith, known as Vera, was struck by a car during the chaos of Hurricane Katrina, and the makeshift tomb created by her neighbors on a New Orleans sidewalk became a symbol of the storm's uncontrolled mortality. In November, family members buried her in South Texas, and now only a few bricks mark the site. She was 66. (Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)
(Photo by Dave Martin/Associated Press)(pg. A22)
(Illustrations by Matthew Ericson/The New York Times)(pg. A23)Chart: ''Katrina's Diaspora''One of the best snapshots of how New Orleans area residents were scattered by Hurricane Katrina may come from the post office. Since the storm struck last year, more than 270,000 households have filed change of address forms, including about 200,000 that still listed an address outside New Orleans and its surrounding parishes as of July 1.Current population estimates vary, but most put the city's population between 200,000 and 250,000, down from 480,000 before the hurricane. Estimates suggest that tens of thousands have also left nearby parishes.Many evacuees stayed relatively close to home, moving to less hard-hit areas in Louisiana, but Southern cities like Houston, Dallas and Atlanta also saw a large influx of people.The number of households having mail forwarded outside the New Orleans area peaked at the start of the year, and has come down slightly as some displaced residents have begun to return.Number of New Orleans area households that had mail forwarded outside the areaGraph shows figures since October, 2005.Notes: The New Orleans area includes ZIP codes that begin with 700 and 701. Destination ZIP codes with fewer than 25 households are not shown. The post office asked people to use their pre-hurricane address on change of address forms if they made multiple moves during the year
 those that did not may not have their final destination included.Where New Orleans area residents moved, based on change of address forms filed with the post officeCircles are sized according to number of former New Orleans area households in each ZIP code region, as of July 1Map of the United States highlighting the areas that Katrina refugees moved to.75,826 moved to a new address in the New Orleans areaMiami-Ft. Lauderdale: 1,095(Source by United States Postal Service)(pg. A23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (54%); INSURANCE (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Surveys and Series; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: Shaila Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Atlanta (Ga); Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



458 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's Premier Pledges to Stop Taking Gas From Russian Pipes

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Ukraine's new prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, has promised that his government will refrain from siphoning natural gas from Russia's export pipelines to meet Ukraine's shortfall this winter, a practice that has incensed Russian officials who characterize it as stealing. 
 The assurance was the latest step by Mr. Yanukovich, a pro-Russian politician, to address some of the conflicts between Ukraine and Russia since Parliament elected him prime minister on Aug. 4.
The move was a concession, of sorts, to Russia -- Ukrainian officials had never publicly admitted taking the gas without paying -- but one also likely to ease worries in Western Europe over the security of energy supplies this winter. About 80 percent of Russia's gas exports to Western Europe pass through Ukraine. 
 Mr. Yanukovich, who lost the election that came to be known as the Orange Revolution in 2004 but staged an improbable political comeback this summer, has brought a more conciliatory stance to the energy talks with Russia, as expected. Talks are under way for a contract for gas supplies in 2007. 
 Mr. Yanukovich said Ukraine's national energy company, Naftogaz, was preparing for the winter heating season by storing gas underground. 
 ''I am saying this so Europe can hear, and they can feel at ease,'' Mr. Yanukovich said on Tuesday at a news conference in Ukraine, according to a transcript provided by his office. ''We won't take European gas from the pipes this winter.''
 Mr. Yanukovich has been welcomed by Russia more than the victor in the Orange Revolution, President Viktor A. Yushchenko, ever was. 
 Just last week, in a break with protocol, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia invited him to join heads of state from the Eurasian Economic Community for informal meetings in Sochi, a Russian resort town, though Mr. Yanukovich is not Ukraine's leader. 
 In turn, Mr. Yanukovich has vowed a more pragmatic approach to the energy dispute that last winter briefly reduced the flow of natural gas to Western Europe, and has tried to reassure European governments they will not be faced with shivering citizens in northern Europe this winter. 
 At the Sochi meetings, he secured a promise from Russia's natural gas monopoly, Gazprom, not to revisit the gas price, $95 per 1,000 cubic meters, or about 1,300 cubic yards, until the end of the year. 
 Also, President Yushchenko has signaled that Ukraine is likely to continue to import natural gas next year through a Swiss-registered intermediary, RosUkrEnergo, that is controlled by Gazprom, though the United States has criticized the arrangement as prone to corruption. 
 ''God help us prolong it for several more years,'' Mr. Yushchenko said of the deal on Saturday, the Interfax news agency reported. 
 Still, in the tangled energy trade between the countries, Ukraine's practice of withdrawing gas intended for Western Europe from Russian pipelines has long been a thorn in the side of Gazprom. It has also been a source of leverage for Ukraine in the pricing talks, now a matter apparently off the table. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) Gas (Fuel); Pipelines; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: NJSC NAFTOGAZ OF UKRAINE (90%); OAO GAZPROM (64%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (90%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (90%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) Andrew E Kramer; Viktor F (Prime Min) Yanukovich

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (95%); UKRAINE (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%) Russia; Ukraine 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



459 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: As Spitzer Flexes, Bloomberg Team Feels the Strain 

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Fresh off a decisive victory, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg started his second term this year with huge ambitions for economic development in the city. He wanted to restart the troubled rebuilding effort at ground zero, reshape the Far West Side of Manhattan, and push the huge Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn.
 In recent weeks, however, the administration has been finding its efforts stymied, at least in part because of a man who has little if any official say in these matters.
Eliot Spitzer has not yet won the Democratic primary for governor in New York, but already he has started flexing his political muscle, lobbying to put the brakes on projects that Mr. Bloomberg has been trying to accelerate. 
 Last month, Mr. Spitzer called for further review of the high-rise residential development and basketball arena proposed for the Atlantic railyards in Brooklyn. Then, last week, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver switched gears to halt a $900 million construction plan for Moynihan Station in Midtown Manhattan after Mr. Spitzer, a fellow Democrat, announced his opposition to the project.
 A day after officials delayed the Moynihan plan, Mr. Spitzer stepped up his criticism of a city proposal to buy the railyards on the Far West Side from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, calling the city's $500 million offer stingy and suggesting an auction to the highest bidder.
 Frustration within the administration has escalated to the point that some top advisers have started to view Mr. Spitzer's planned ascent to the Governor's Mansion in Albany as ''the second coming of Rudy Giuliani,'' a reference to the former mayor's my-way-or-the-highway approach.
 Part of the difficulty stems from opposing political life cycles. Mr. Bloomberg is staring down the end of his administration in just over three years, and the clock on his grand designs for the city is winding down. Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general who holds a wide lead in opinion polls, is potentially on the verge of many years as governor, and his associates say he is intent on having a say in major development projects already moving forward, especially because the projects could have huge financial repercussions for the state.
 Although Mr. Spitzer shares a warm personal relationship with Mr. Bloomberg, matters with the city have been further complicated by his contentious dealings with the mayor's development deputy, Daniel L. Doctoroff. Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Doctoroff have a reputation for muscling through their agendas with little regard for the feelings or views of others.
 The two men clashed after Mr. Doctoroff failed to give Mr. Spitzer advance notice of the city's offer to buy the West Side railyards from the transportation authority, which Mr. Spitzer may soon control. Mr. Doctoroff's surprise offer to buy the railyards came shortly after the two men held a dinner at which Mr. Doctoroff apparently did not divulge his planned offer to the authority, an agency that Mr. Spitzer plans to reform to improve its financial condition.
 But at its root, the battle with the Bloomberg administration is part of a larger conflict between Mr. Spitzer and the man he hopes to replace, Gov. George E. Pataki. Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has been working to establish a tangible legacy and extend his influence beyond his term, potentially hamstringing his successor, by appointing his own loyalists to authorities with sway over large development and infrastructure projects.
 ''There is a conscious and concerted effort, almost a conspiracy, to strip the next governor of the ability to make fundamental decisions,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester who is close to the Spitzer camp. ''They're setting up structures that will outlive them.''
 Associates say that Mr. Spitzer is already involved in planning for a transition to the governorship, although they caution he is not assuming he will win. 
 ''There is such an enormous task confronting the new governor, he thinks he should be planning for his transition,'' said Lloyd Constantine, a lawyer who managed Mr. Spitzer's transition when he became attorney general. ''There are huge problems to tackle, and this is just not a year where you can wait until the second week in November and think about who you're going to appoint and how you're going to restructure.''
 Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonpartisan planning group, said it looks likely that Mr. Spitzer will become governor and have to take responsibility for the various large projects, like Moynihan Station and the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan, two projects over which the state will wield significant control.
 ''They're very long-term and involve billions of dollars,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''He's going to be managing them come January if he's elected, and so I'm sure they're thinking about avoiding serious problems.''
 That very dynamic is causing problems for the city, where officials are scrambling to lock in their plans with the political players they already know before facing a new administration with ideas of its own. This is especially the case at ground zero, where Bloomberg administration officials are hoping to complete a rebuilding plan so that they can focus on the Far West Side without interference from Albany leaders like Mr. Silver, who dashed plans for a new football stadium at the heart of the city's Olympic bid.
 If Mr. Spitzer does win, the built-in tension between City Hall and Albany for control over big-ticket items -- especially ground zero -- could become a battle. Mr. Spitzer, for instance, raised concerns this year about the financial viability of the Freedom Tower.
 Worried about such meddling, Bloomberg administration officials have been carefully recalibrating their positions, working to smooth things over with Mr. Spitzer without alienating others who are involved. For instance, in the Moynihan Station project, the administration supports a long-gestating plan to convert the Farley Post Office into a grand train station that would serve as an expansion of Pennsylvania Station, which sits underneath Madison Square Garden, across Eighth Avenue from the post office. Mr. Pataki, having agreed that the state buy the post office for $230 million, wants the project as part of his legacy and is seeking final approval for the plans.
 But Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Silver say that there are still unanswered questions about the financial plan for the station. Mr. Spitzer lobbied Albany leaders to postpone consideration of the project until at least late next month. In the dispute, Mr. Doctoroff offered only lukewarm support for the Pataki administration in an apparent effort to avoid a war with Mr. Spitzer. 
 Aides in both camps say that they expect to be able to work as partners should Mr. Spitzer become governor. Nonetheless, relations between the two men will probably remain complicated, as both are known for being high-handed and controlling.
 Mr. Doctoroff is one of the mayor's most trusted aides, but his recent dealings with Mr. Spitzer are reminiscent of similar political missteps that have caused trouble for him in the past. 
 In 2000, Mr. Doctoroff offended state officials by neglecting to include Governor Pataki in a news conference with Mayor Giuliani about the city's Olympic bid, even though the plans expected vast sums of money from the state. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Aug. 24 about tension between the Bloomberg administration and Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general of New York and a Democratic candidate for governor, referred incorrectly to Mr. Spitzer's position on the Moynihan Station project in Manhattan. Mr. Spitzer objected to the project's going forward at this time because of financing questions; he did not oppose it over all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LOBBYING (75%); POLITICS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUCTIONS (70%); BASKETBALL (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); World Trade Center (NYC); Railroads; Moynihan Station (NYC); Post Offices and Equipment; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Elections; Governors (US); Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Diane Cardwell; Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; George E (Gov) Pataki; Daniel L (Deputy Mayor) Doctoroff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



460 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Governor Finishes Third In Alaska G.O.P. Primary

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Gov. Frank H. Murkowski was decisively defeated in a Republican primary on Tuesday, a loss the governor interpreted as a rejection of his leadership style but one that also echoed an anti-incumbent mood elsewhere in the country.
 Mr. Murkowski, 73, a former United States senator who left Washington in his fourth term to run for governor in 2002, won 19 percent of the vote in his bid for a second term, placing third in a three-way race, according to partial results released Wednesday.
Sarah Palin, 42, a former mayor of the little town of Wasilla who rose to prominence as a whistle-blower uncovering ethical misconduct in state government, won the nomination for governor with 51 percent of the vote. 
 John Binkley, a former state senator, received 30 percent. Mr. Murkowski promised to support Ms. Palin in November, when she faces former Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat who left office in 2002 because of term limits. Mr. Knowles, who made an unsuccessful bid for the United States Senate two years ago, won the Democratic primary with 69 percent of the vote. 
 In a brief interview on Tuesday night, after having told supporters at his campaign headquarters that he would concede, Mr. Murkowski suggested that his style in the Senate, where he unsuccessfully fought to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and natural gas exploration and to expand logging in Tongass National Forest, had not translated well to the state capital.
 ''Maybe they just weren't used to somebody who calls them as he sees them,'' he said of the voters who rejected him.
 The dominant policy debate of the Republican primary centered on the longstanding goal of building a pipeline for natural gas from the North Slope into Canada, a development that many people here say is critical for the state's economy as oil production declines.
 ''It has to be pushed hard,'' Ms. Palin said in an interview. ''It is the future of the Alaska economy. But we have to have a shift of emphasis.''
 While Mr. Murkowski's defeat suggested a rejection of his plan, which would give generous incentives to oil companies that invest in the pipeline, many people linked the loss more closely to the governor's brazen ways and missteps.
 Several moves cost him support. He appointed his daughter Lisa to complete his Senate term. He eliminated a ''longevity bonus'' for the elderly that had been intended to keep them from leaving the state. 
 He proposed taking money from a reserve account financed by oil taxes to balance the budget. And, after state and federal agencies rejected his efforts to buy a jet for the use of the governor's office, he took out a line of credit from a bank and bought the plane anyway.
 Dennis Fradley, a chief of staff in Mr. Murkowski's Senate office in the 80's and his communications director as governor, noted that two other longtime lawmakers in Alaska lost state legislative races on Tuesday.
 ''I don't know if it was 'throw all the rascals out,' but I do think it's wanting new faces,'' Mr. Fradley said. ''I think his timing couldn't have been worse that way. He was giving people a reason at the same time people were giving less weight to seniority and history.''
 The governor did not announce his re-election bid until late May, a fact that aides said hurt his fund-raising and limited their ability to polish his image. In the short summer campaign, Mr. Murkowski appeared in television commercials in a confessional mode, suggesting in one that he might need a ''personality transplant.'' 
 Senator Lisa Murkowski, who won a full term in 2004, noted that new residents had flooded Alaska since her father and the state's two other Republican giants, Senator Ted Stevens and Representative Don Young, were first elected decades ago.
 ''They're brand new,'' Ms. Murkowski, 49, said. ''They're seeing these older people leading the state, and they're saying, 'Hey, I want some new blood.' And I think Sarah was that fresh face.''
 Stephen Haycox, a professor of history at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, and the author of ''Frigid Embrace: Politics, Economics and Environment in Alaska,'' said Mr. Murkowski's defeat was a manifestation of a developing pattern. ''I think the sense that change is desirable is a transcendent theme,'' Professor Haycox said.
 Paul Pierson, a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, said Mr. Murkowski's loss, while rooted in local issues, might show something broader about voters as polls show high disapproval over how some incumbents handle issues like the Iraq war. 
 ''That seems like the link that would be worth exploring,'' Professor Pierson said, ''that people are in a sour mood and they're willing to look beyond the presumption they would usually give incumbents.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Frank H. Murkowski congratulating Sarah Palin on her victory on Tuesday night in Anchorage. (Photo by Joshua Borough for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MAYORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (75%); ETHICS (74%); MISCONDUCT (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (70%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); BUDGETS (69%); WILDLIFE (65%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (65%); OIL EXPLORATION (65%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (65%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); AGING (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (51%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (50%) Elections; Governors (US); Primaries; Election Results

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%) William Yardley; Sarah Palin; Frank H (Gov) Murkowski; Tony Knowles

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (69%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



461 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Florida Gives Research Institute $300 Million to Go to Orlando

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE JORDAN SEXTON

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Gov. Jeb Bush announced Wednesday that the Burnham Institute for Medical Research, based in San Diego, had accepted more than $300 million in state and local incentives to open a research center in Orlando. 
 State officials said that the planned 175,000-square-foot laboratory would be among a cluster of medical research and treatment centers to spring up around a newly approved medical school at the University of Central Florida. The University of Florida, based in Gainesville, has also announced plans to open a biotechnology research facility in the Orlando area.
The Burnham center will open within the next two years and employ 300 people within a decade, said John Reed, president and chief executive of the institute.
 Construction of the center will cost $70 million, and Orange County and Orlando will pay for it, a Burnham spokeswoman said.
 The governor, who will leave office in January because of term limits, has made a priority in his final term of luring biotech institutes to Florida, a tourism-dependent state with few research universities and scientific centers. In 2003, he persuaded the Scripps Research Institute, also based in San Diego, to open a biomedical research facility in Palm Beach County by offering more than $500 million in economic incentives from the state and local governments.
 Mr. Bush said it was ''unique'' for the state to offer economic incentive packages to research institutes as it would to other businesses. 
 ''It's totally unorthodox, and I am really happy to be part of it,'' he said. ''To me, this is a statewide effort, and it invigorates all of our universities.''
 Burnham operates three centers that focus on cancer, degenerative disease and infectious and inflammatory disease research. Research at the Orlando facility will focus on diabetes and obesity, Mr. Reed said. 
 The company conducts embryonic stem cell research at its headquarters, he said, but will not do so in Florida. Mr. Bush is staunchly opposed to allotting state money for such research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (97%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CANCER (78%); TERM LIMITS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OBESITY (63%); DIABETES (63%) Medicine and Health; Medical Schools; Research; Finances; Laboratories and Scientific Equipment

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (57%) University of Central Florida; Burnham Institute

PERSON: JACK REED (58%) Christine Jordan Sexton

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (97%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%) Orlando (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



462 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Border Crossings Dip, And Official Cites Security

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced on Wednesday that tough border security measures championed by the Bush administration had significantly reduced the number of illegal immigrants entering from Mexico for the first time in several years.
 Mr. Chertoff pointed to recent apprehension figures to bolster his assertion, saying that the number of Mexicans captured in June and July had dipped to the lowest level for that two-month period since the fiscal year 2002. The number of non-Mexican immigrants apprehended during June and July, he said, dropped to the lowest level for that period since the fiscal year 2004.
Mr. Chertoff attributed the decline to President Bush's decision to deploy National Guard troops on the Mexican border and to an expansion in the number of beds in detention centers, which has in recent weeks allowed immigration officials for the first time to detain nearly all illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico until they can be deported. Illegal immigrants from Mexico are typically returned soon after capture. 
 Those efforts, he said, have discouraged illegal immigrants from trying to enter the country. 
 ''The message, I think, is that what we have done is beginning to work,'' Mr. Chertoff said at a news conference. ''Although we're not ready to declare victory -- we've got a lot more work to do -- it is encouraging and it's something that ought to inspire us to continue to push forward on all of these different fronts.''
 Critics of the administration's immigration policy challenged Mr. Chertoff's statements, saying the decline in apprehensions was a poor measure of determining whether immigrants were entering the United States. Illegal immigrants, they note, may simply be evading detection by avoiding heavily patrolled areas. 
 They also noted that Mr. Chertoff's announcement came as Republican politicians were gearing up for Congressional elections in November. Many conservative voters have been demanding tougher border security. And Mr. Bush, who has been pressing for legislation to legalize illegal immigrants, has been sharply criticized by Republicans who argue that he has failed to do enough to secure the border.
 Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington research group, characterized Mr. Chertoff's announcement as an effort, in part, to rally support for Mr. Bush and for Republican Congressional candidates by promoting the government's border security efforts.
 ''What does it mean to have fewer apprehensions?'' asked Mr. Camarota, who favors a tougher crackdown on illegal immigration. ''We just don't know. The really important thing is how many get through, and nobody knows that.'' 
 ''I think this should be interpreted as positive baby steps,'' Mr. Camarota said of the Chertoff announcement. ''It's a modest increase in enforcement so the president can get his legalization plan for illegals. That's what he wants. And this provides political cover.'' 
 Mr. Chertoff plans to continue to carry his message to Texas on Thursday, where he will tour the Mexican border with two Republican lawmakers, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, who have proposed legislation that would require the president to certify that the border was secure before allowing a temporary guest worker plan. 
 Mr. Chertoff will visit a detention center and address the governors of American and Mexican border states. Two governors, Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, and Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, urged the federal government on Wednesday to improve border security.
 They called for a cross-border task force to step up law enforcement and push for stiffer penalties for building tunnels that funnel people and drugs between the countries.
 At the news conference, Mr. Chertoff asked Congress to pass a bill to create a temporary worker program that would provide a legal mechanism for foreigners to work in the United States and ease the flow of illegal immigrants.
 He said a comprehensive approach to immigration, recognizing the economic motivations driving immigrants to enter the United States illegally, would be the most successful. Officials argue that a temporary worker program would slow the flow of illegal immigrants -- more than 50,000 were caught in July -- by providing foreigners with a legal way to get jobs here.
 ''Let's register them; let's track them,'' Mr. Chertoff said of the immigrants. ''Let's collect taxes from them, and let's just be sure that we know who they are because they have secure identification.''
 The possibility that such legislation will be passed before the fall elections, however, seems increasingly remote.
 In May, the Senate passed legislation that would tighten border security, create a guest worker program and ultimately grant citizenship to most illegal immigrants after they pay fines and back taxes and enroll in English classes. The president supports this approach. 
 But House Republicans, who passed a bill in December that focused solely on toughening border security and immigration enforcement, decided to hold hearings to rally support for their approach before working with the Senate on a compromise. 
 Several hearings are being held in districts where Republican lawmakers are engaged in competitive races for the House, and some lawmakers and advocates of immigrants fear that immigration has become little more than a weapon in the battle over fiercely contested House and Senate seats. 
 Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an immigrant advocacy group, said, ''The question is whether the desire to effectively reform immigration laws is greater than the desire to use this issue as a political football.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department; National Guard (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (92%) Rachel L Swarns; Michael (Sec) Chertoff; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



463 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Iranian Nuclear Proposal Is Inadequate

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
The United States, in its first formal reaction after Iran's counteroffer to an incentives proposal to quit its nuclear program, said Iran's position ''falls short'' of United Nations demands. 
 A State Department statement said the United States was ''consulting closely'' with members of the United Nations Security Council over its next steps.
''We acknowledge that Iran considers its response as a serious offer, and we will review it,'' said the acting spokesman for the department, Gonzalo Gallegos, in the statement. 
 On June 1, the five permanent members of the Security Council, along with Germany, offered Iran a package of incentives in return for Tehran's suspension of uranium enrichment, a crucial step in any creation of a nuclear weapon. Iran's official response on Tuesday, in a complex 21-page counterproposal, in effect offered to hold negotiations on its nuclear program but did not address the Security Council's demand that it halt enrichment.
 Bush administration officials are pushing their European, Russian and Chinese counterparts to impose sanctions on Iran at the end of the month, after a Security Council deadline for Iran to suspend enrichment expires. But Russia and China, which have deep economic ties with Iran, have resisted any move to penalize the country severely.
 On Wednesday, those two countries again urged the Europeans and Americans to respond with caution. 
 On its Foreign Ministry's Web site, Russia asked world powers to ''understand the nuances, to find constructive elements, if there are any, to determine if it is possible to work further with Tehran on the basis of the well-known proposals of the six states.'' And a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Mikhail Kamynin, said any talk of sanctions before the expiration of the Aug. 31 deadline set by the Security Council was premature.
 A statement from China urged patience and further negotiation on the issue. Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy of France told reporters in Paris that Iran must stop uranium enrichment before negotiation on its nuclear program can resume. 
 In Berlin, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Martin Jaeger, said that Germany was ''analyzing and evaluating the rather complex text'' of the Iranian proposal. But he added that Iran's response ran counter to its insistence that its nuclear program was for peaceful purposes. 
 The United States, Britain, France and Germany had considered meeting Wednesday in New York to discuss the Iranian proposal and their response, but the Europeans decided against the meeting, a senior American official said. He said the foreign ministers were studying the Iranian proposal in their respective capitals.
 President Bush met with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at the White House on Wednesday to discuss the issue, aides said. Ms. Rice also spoke by telephone with the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (54%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (52%) Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (93%); IRAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Iran; Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



464 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Mission Unaccomplished

 BODY:
There is nothing that makes us more nervous than the Bush administration declaring something an ''unqualified success.'' 
 That is exactly what Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, said about welfare reform this week. In fact, in a column in The Salt Lake Tribune marking the 10th anniversary of welfare reform, Mr. Leavitt stressed the need for more of the same: stricter work requirements for poor people and a diversion of taxpayer dollars into programs to promote marriage. 
That is deeply disturbing. An anniversary like this should be a time of reflection, of building on what has worked and fixing what hasn't. A ''mission accomplished'' attitude pre-empts any meaningful attempts to do just that.
 Very few people would argue that welfare reform has been a failure, or that the country should go back to the old system of open-ended welfare eligibility with no serious emphasis on work requirements. But it is flat-out wrong to declare victory as if the hard part of the journey is over. The evidence says otherwise.
 For the first five years, the shift from welfare to work went largely as hoped, with employment rates for single mothers rising and child poverty rates falling, helping to reduce the number of welfare cases. But since 2000, employment rates for single mothers have fallen and child poverty has increased. Caseloads have continued to fall, indicating that welfare is reaching fewer children at a time of rising need.
 That the economy was stronger in the mid-1990's than in the current decade is not the only -- or even the primary -- reason for the backsliding. An important difference is the extent of government support for the working poor. 
 Welfare reform has often been touted as a triumph of market incentives. But when it passed in 1996, government was deeply involved, offering supportive policies and programs, including a higher minimum wage, expanded aid for child care, a big expansion in the earned income tax credit to ensure that work paid better than welfare, and an extension of health insurance to all low-income children. Such support has diminished in the Bush years. Without it, people who would formerly have been trapped on welfare have very little chance of turning into anything other than working people trapped in poverty. 
 Ten years into the effort, it's clear that work can help to assuage poverty, as long as the government helps the working poor. When that help is not forthcoming, a low-wage job fails to alleviate poverty, just as cash handouts failed. It's as necessary today for conservatives to back stronger government supports for the working poor as it was 10 years ago for people like President Clinton to get behind work rules for welfare recipients. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); POVERTY RATES (87%); CHILD WELFARE (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); CONSERVATISM (63%) Welfare (US); Editorials; Welfare Recipients, Employment of

COMPANY: KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



465 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

HOME SALES AT TWO-YEAR LOW -- In the latest indication that the home buying and selling frenzy is over, sales of previously owned homes in July fell to the lowest level in over two years, prices flattened and sellers waited longer to find buyers for their homes. The stock of unsold houses hit a record high. [Page C1.] 


SHARES SLIDE -- Stocks dropped the most in three weeks as a plunge in sales of previously owned homes heightened concern that the economy was headed for a slump. [C14.]

INDIA SEES SECURITY RISKS -- Amid concerns that some foreign investments might overstep into areas of national security, the Indian government is drafting legislation to block overseas companies from doing business in India if they are perceived as security risks. ''As investors flood vital sectors such as telecommunications, media, airlines and ports, our priority is to bring in comprehensive safeguards,'' said Kamal Nath, above, the minister of commerce and industry. [C4.]

CHEAPER AUTO RATES -- For the first time in decades, prices for automobile coverage are falling in New Jersey, and insurers are fighting for the business of drivers. It is a mammoth change that puts New Jersey in line with auto insurance practices in most of the country. [C1.]

FORD CONSIDERING DEALS -- Ford is evaluating the prospects for ties with other automakers even as it moves ahead with its own restructuring efforts, people who have been briefed on Ford's activities said. [C1.]

REDSTONE VS. CRUISE CONTINUES -- A day after Viacom's chairman, Sumner Redstone, abruptly evicted Tom Cruise from his home on the Paramount movie lot, the war of words was on the verge of escalating from recrimination to retribution. [C1.]

CRUISE'S SLIDE -- Tom Cruise's likability began to plummet even before his couch-jumping days. In the annual Harris poll charting America's favorite movie stars, done every January, Mr. Cruise has not even been in the Top 10 since the poll in 2004, when he ranked No. 5. [E1.]

A PUSH FOR VIOXX SUCCESSOR -- Setting the stage for a scientific and regulatory battle, Merck said that a potential successor to its painkiller Vioxx had shown in a large study to be no more dangerous to the heart than an older painkiller still widely in use. [C1.]

HANDS OFF RUSSIAN GAS -- Ukraine's new prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, has promised that his government will refrain from siphoning natural gas from Russia's export pipelines to meet Ukraine's shortfall this winter, a practice that has incensed Russian officials who characterize it as stealing. [A7.]

MEDICARE MIX-UP -- About 230,000 Medicare recipients were mistakenly sent refunds last week averaging about $215 for monthly premiums they paid this year for drug coverage, the head of the Medicare program said. [A25.]

PAPER DEAL -- Weyerhaeuser will merge its fine-paper operation with a Canadian company, Domtar, in a cash-and-stock deal worth $3.3 billion. [C4.]

RECORD NET FOR MINING COMPANY -- BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, reported its third consecutive record full-year profit, as China's booming economy and surging prices for copper offset rising costs and pressure from workers for higher wages. [C4.]

I.B.M. TO BUY SOFTWARE FIRM -- I.B.M. took another step in its strategy of blending software and services, announcing plans to buy Internet Security Systems of Atlanta for $1.3 billion. It would be the largest acquisition added to I.B.M.'s services business since it bought PriceWaterhouseCoopers Consulting for $3.5 billion in 2004. [C5.]

RITE AID TO BUY A RIVAL -- The Rite Aid drug store chain agreed to buy Brooks/Eckerd for $2.55 billion in cash and stock, putting it within striking distance of its two largest rivals, Walgreen and CVS, according to people involved in the deal. [C3.]

GRABBING MORE ADS -- Some distinctly uncool factions of the magazine industry are stealing attention from the high-end fashion magazines like Vogue, Elle and Harper's Bazaar. Martha Stewart's namesake magazine saw a 69.5 percent increase in ad pages over last September, and Oprah Winfrey's title had a 56.4 percent jump. Advertising. [C6.]

RACE ON 'SURVIVOR' -- For the first time since it went on the air in 2000, the hit CBS reality show ''Survivor'' will divide its teams along racial lines. [C6.]

ONLINE

CAREER COUCH -- Find out how to recover from botched presentations and workplace blunders at nytimes.com/jobs.

MANAGING GLOBALIZATION -- Daniel Altman, the International Herald Tribune's global economics correspondent, offers a look at the day's news in a blog at nytimes.com/business.

YOUR MONEY -- Look ahead at the news that will affect your finances with Your Money, a free weekly newsletter from The New York Times. nytimes.com/yourmoney

VICTIMS OF A COAL BOOM -- As coal powers China's sizzling economy, thousands of acres of land are literally sinking because of the ravages of underground coal mining. A report is at nytimes.com/worldbusiness.

FROM RECORDS TO CD'S -- David Pogue tests Teac's GF-350 recording machine, which can turn vinyl records and cassette tapes into CD's. A video report is at nytimes.com/technology.

TECH TALK -- A podcast of a weekly technology program from the tech experts at The New York Times is available at nytimes.com/technology.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks I.B.M.'s share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); MEDICARE (89%); RANKINGS (86%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (84%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (79%); INSURANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); LEGISLATION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); VIACOM INC (54%); AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (88%); SUMNER REDSTONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (92%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



466 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; AHEAD Oyster Festivals; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: High-End Taste, Common Touch

BYLINE: By CINDY PRICE

 BODY:
OF all the unlikely luxury foods, nothing stirs the imagination quite like the oyster. Like caviar or escargot, it fiddles with that old schism between appearance and flavor -- in simpler terms, it's a gross-out food that happens to taste pretty good. But there's also that bit about its being an aphrodisiac, perhaps an offshoot of the legend of Casanova (he supposedly swallowed 50 a day). And there's the fascinating fact that sometimes a grain of sand slips through that thick, curmudgeonly exterior and morphs into a pearl.
 Yet the oyster, unlike its uptown buddies, can still very much hang with the common folk, as is proven every fall, when towns up and down the East Coast -- from Chincoteague, Va., to Oyster Bay, N.Y., and beyond -- swing open the gates for their annual oyster festivals. 
 ''These are just big parties, and we're there to celebrate our base love of oysters,'' said Ryan Croxton, an owner of Rappahannock River Oysters, an oyster supplier based in Tappahannock, Va. ''Chances are the oysters are coming from all over, crooked and fused, muddy and covered in barnacles, but they taste almost as good as any you'll find at a white-tablecloth restaurant.'' 
 He should know. Mr. Croxton and his cousin and co-owner, Travis Croxton, sell their farm-raised oysters to high-end restaurants like Le Bernardin in Manhattan. 
 Their success in the fine-dining world won't stop them from dropping by the Urbanna Oyster Festival in November in Urbanna, Va. ''We grow a prettier oyster,'' Mr. Croxton said. ''And we can tell you where and how it grew, start to finish. With wine, that's important. With a beer and Texas Pete, who cares?'' 
 Not many, apparently. The Urbanna festival is in its 49th year, and this fall the tiny village of 600 people will swell to accommodate an expected 60,000 to 70,000 oyster-frenzied visitors.
 Do that many people really like oysters? Probably, and those who do will find them in spades at big festivals like Urbanna's, or the Norwalk Seaport Association Oyster Festival in Connecticut. Booths at the festivals line up next to each other, pushing out hundreds of the little mollusks -- raw, smoked, steamed, roasted, fried into fritters or boiled into stew. 
 Those who are squeamish about oysters will find other food, along with arts and crafts booths, live music and, of course, the oyster shucking competition. The Norwalk festival is said to attract almost 85,000 people, not only with oysters and a big arts and crafts show, but with parachuting skydivers and three music stages. This year's lineup includes the 1980's rock band Asia.
 For a quaint approach to oysters, there's the Wellfleet Oyster Festival on Cape Cod, which began as a tiny production to boost the local economy (many of the town's year-round residents work in the oyster industry). The party has ballooned -- 8,000 to 10,000 people are expected this October -- but the small-town feel remains. ''It's Cape Cod in the off-season,'' Lisa Brown, one of the festival's founders, said. ''The crowds are gone; the weather's cooled off. It's just beautiful.''
 Small town or no, visitors and locals argue fervently for their favorite oysters. ''I grew up on oysters -- and look, an oyster is an oyster,'' Ms. Brown said. ''Now, I prefer a deep-water wild oyster, which is a little fatter and sweeter. People get really snobby about their oysters, but then, I have my preference too. So who's talking?'' 
 In fact, the growing interest in oysters' varying texture, finish and terroir (a French word, borrowed from the wine industry, used to describe distinct tastes related to geography) is leading to new wave of festivals in which wine and oysters are paired. 
 Not surprisingly, Rappahannock River Oysters is on the scene. ''Our new thing is to start hijacking wine festivals,'' Ryan Croxton said. 
 The Croxtons have teamed up with the Cardinal Point Winery in Afton, Va., for an oyster and wine pairing weekend, but it is more of a boutique event. The winery can accommodate up to 500 people, according to Sarah Gorman, whose family founded it. She recommends a crisp, acidic white for pairing, but for those bent on reds, the winery produces a light-bodied blend called Rockfish Red.
 The festival this November will be the winery's third. ''The first year, everyone was like 'Uh, no -- you drink beer with oysters.' '' she said. ''Now, we have a lot of converts.''

DETAILS

NORWALK, CONN. -- Veterans Park.
 What: Norwalk Seaport Association Oyster Festival, (203) 838-9444; www.seaport.org/oyster--festival.htm; admission $10 for adults, $3 for children. 
 When: Sept. 8 to 10.

CHINCOTEAGUE, VA. -- Maddox Family Campground, Maddox Boulevard.
 What: Chincoteague Island Oyster Festival, (757) 336-6161; www.chincoteaguechamber.com/oyster-festival; admission $35.
 When: Oct. 7

OYSTER BAY, N.Y. -- Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Park.
 What: Oyster Festival, (516) 628-1625, www.theoysterfestival.org; admission free.
 When: Oct. 14 and 15.

WELLFLEET, MASS. -- Along Main Street.
 What: Wellfleet Oysterfest, www.wellfleetoysterfest.org; info@wellfleetoysterfest.org; admission free.
 When: Oct. 14 and 15.

URBANNA, VA. -- Events throughout the town.
 What: Urbanna Oyster Festival, (804) 758-0368; www.urbannaoysterfestival.com; parking $5 to $10.
 When: Nov. 3 and 4.

AFTON, VA. -- Events at 9423 Batesville Road.
 What: Cardinal Point Winery Annual Oysterfest, (540) 456-8400; www.cardinalpointwinery.com/events.htm; admission $7. 
 When: Nov. 11 and 12.


GRAPHIC: Photo: READY TO EAT -- Tables groan with bounty at the Norwalk Seaport Association Oyster Festival, held in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); SHELLFISH FARMING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); MUSIC (62%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); SKYDIVING (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (60%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Travel and Vacations; Oysters; Festivals

PERSON: Cindy Price

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Norwalk (Conn); Chincoteague Island (Va); urbanna (va); Oyster Bay (NY); Wellfleet (Mass); afton (va)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



467 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Small Gains as Signs Point to Soft Consumer Spending

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street managed a razor-thin gain yesterday as investors sifted through data that pointed to stable interest rates, but also suggested that the economy had moderated more than expected.
 The market was down for much of the day after reports of sluggish home sales and orders for durable goods, but stocks turned higher at midafternoon. Stocks have been struggling to rebound after losses this week on concerns that the Federal Reserve's campaign of rate increases has hurt the economy and that a so-called soft economic landing might be harder to achieve.
The data bolstered views that the Fed would remain on the sidelines for the time being. However, slowing economic indicators also mean a softening of consumer spending -- a crucial factor that drives the economy and corporate earnings. 
 ''Looking beyond just the numbers the trend is obviously toward slowing housing demand,'' said Elisabeth Denison, an economist with the securities firm Dresdner Kleinwort. ''The Fed has been banking on this to help cap inflation as we go through the year, but it also calls into question that maybe things have gone too far.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.56 points, or 0.06 percent, to 11,304.46. Broader stock indicators were narrowly higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 3.07 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,296.06. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.45 points, or 0.11 percent, to 2,137.11.
 Oil prices rose, with light crude for October delivery up 60 cents, to $72.36 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil has been affected this week by continued uncertainty in the Middle East and government data Wednesday that showed rising supplies of gasoline as refiners increased output.
 Art Nunes, portfolio manager of the IMS Strategic Allocation Fund in Bellevue, Wash., said the stock market's earlier drop had more to do with light trading and a hair-trigger reaction by investors looking for direction.
 ''The summer is a seasonally weak time for the market, and we're getting into the tail end of that,'' he said. He added: ''The markets are weaker today, but it's more a case of the summer doldrums than any major factor. As we approach the fall, people will come back to work and the volume will pick up.''
 Retailers, affected by concerns that consumer spending has dropped, led stocks lower throughout the session. Chico's, the women's apparel chain, plunged $6.13, to $17.95, after it lowered its outlook for the third and fourth quarters.
 Williams-Sonoma, the housewares retailer, dropped $2.71, to $29.89 after it slashed its outlook for the rest of the year because of disappointing sales at its Pottery Barn chain.
 Rite Aid, which has agreed to buy United States drugstores from the Jean Coutu Group of Canada in a $2.55 billion cash-and-stock deal, fell 32 cents, to $4.36. 
 Home builders staged a rebound after hovering near 52-week lows. Pulte Homes, the nation's largest home builder, rose $1.16, to $29.25. Toll Brothers was up 87 cents, to $25.42.
 Apple Computer edged up 50 cents, to $67.81 despite announcing that it will recall 1.1 million laptop batteries supplied by Sony because of a fire hazard. The same batteries recently prompted Dell to announce a recall. Shares of Sony dropped $1.16, to $43.26.
 With criminal charges being dropped over multibillion-dollar accounting irregularities, Fannie Mae gained $2.36, to $51.53.
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies. Gold prices fell.
 Bonds mostly traded in a narrow range, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note rising 2/32, to 100 19/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.80 percent, from 4.81 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (60%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (69%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



468 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: If Your Stocks Fall, Demand A Refund

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AS a legal innovator, Patrick M. Byrne deserves a place in a hall of fame. He has invented causes of action that no one else had dreamed up, and gotten them taken seriously by courts.
 Mr. Byrne persuaded a state to pass a law that stunned Wall Street, and got the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate his enemies.
Now, if he can keep that streak of success going, he will finally have done something that will reward those individuals who relied upon him in his day job -- as chief executive of Overstock.com. He has a legal theory that would allow those who bought the company's stock before it plunged to get their money back from their brokers. 
 The theory seems dubious to some tradition-bound securities lawyers, but Mr. Byrne has been underestimated before. 
 Overstock's Web site includes a page devoted to the ''C.E.O.'s crusade,'' and it is an apt term. Mr. Byrne has spent the better part of the last two years denouncing those who sell stock short without borrowing shares and demanding a government crackdown on them.
 The S.E.C. passed a rule in 2004 aimed at limiting such actions, and while that rule seems to have reduced the practice in most stocks, such short selling has become more common in the shares of other companies, among them Overstock's. The S.E.C. is considering toughening the rule, and Mr. Byrne got Utah to pass a law providing penalties for brokers who do not fully disclose such transactions involving Utah-based companies, like Overstock. He hopes the United States Senate will take some action.
 When he announced disappointing second-quarter earnings a few weeks ago, Mr. Byrne introduced -- while insisting he was not advocating -- his latest idea for a lawsuit. He suggested investors could direct their brokers to transfer shares from the broker's street name to an individual account at Depository Trust, where most shares are kept. That would, he said, keep the shares from being lent out, thus making life harder for short sellers.
 If brokers failed to do as they were told, he said, investors could consider legal action. He provided the e-mail address of Overstock's lawyer, James W. Christian of Christian, Smith & Jewell in Houston.
 Some shareholders did contact him, Mr. Christian told me, and suits may be filed soon. ''It is really a pretty simple action,'' he said. ''You agreed to sell me something. But you never bought the stock because you never got delivery'' of the actual shares. ''I want to rescind the transaction because you lied, and I want my money back.''
 If such suits worked, it would be a godsend to Overstock.com owners, whose investment has suffered since the shares peaked at $77 in late 2004. Shares closed yesterday at $18.05.
 To the bears, that fall reflects the rising losses Overstock has posted as it struggles to get its costs down and its technology up to par. To Mr. Christian, the answer is simpler: brokers ''allowed counterfeit shares to be sold in substantial numbers'' and that drove down the price.
 Mr. Byrne insists that the issue is stock manipulation. ''I don't care what our stock price is,'' he told me. When I suggested shareholders paid him to care, he said his job was to run the business.
 And how is the business? It ''came off the rails'' last year, he conceded, blaming poor technology decisions. But now things are looking up. ''I feel like a patient coming out of having his knee replaced,'' he said, adding that he expected to be jogging later this year and sprinting in early 2007.
 The latest suit idea ''sounds like a pretty far-fetched idea,'' said John F. Olson, a securities lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who has no involvement in the Overstock legal world. ''What duty has the broker breached? Unless the broker fails to execute an order, you have no loss that was caused by the broker.''
 Mr. Christian says the answer is simple: by allowing the conspiracy to take place, the brokers allowed the share price to be driven down, and then used margin calls to force some of his clients to sell and take losses. The fact that the clients still get the economic benefits of owning the shares, as they would have if delivery had been made, is irrelevant, in his view.
 When Mr. Byrne started his crusade, it was easy to dismiss him as just another corporate boss unhappy that short sellers had discerned that his stock was overhyped and overpriced. But by framing the argument as an attack on manipulating hedge funds, he has gained a surprising amount of political traction, even if his company's performance has not been very impressive.
 Mr. Byrne is not especially comfortable with the idea that honest people can disagree. When I first wrote about him early last year, he speculated on his Web site about whether I was being paid off by short sellers. He concluded I probably was not, but he routinely asserts that other journalists take orders from his foes and, as he put it on his Web site a few weeks ago, ''obediently stick to any Party Line they are instructed to parrot.''
 When I asked him this week if he had any regrets about his campaign, mentioning in particular his claim that an unnamed ''Sith Lord'' was behind the naked shorting conspiracy, he conceded he could have done a better job of choosing his terms.
 ''A better metaphor would have been Al Qaeda, a loosely organized federation of people who share an ideology and operating procedures,'' he said. ''Other than that, my only regret is that I did not act earlier.''


GRAPHIC: Graph shows Overstock.com share prices since 2005 and the shares sold but not delivered. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 S.E.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Short Selling; Suits and Litigation; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN SMITH & JEWELL LLP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%) Overstock.com

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Patrick M Byrne; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



469 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Incentive Time In a Buyer's Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Sweetening the Deal to Sell a Home

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Home sales are falling rapidly, and the number of houses on the market is surging. Yet each new economic report offering evidence of a housing slowdown also shows that the national median home price has continued to rise over the last year. 
 To understand how this could be happening, consider a three-bedroom house surrounded by oak and redwood trees, not far from the Golden Gate Bridge, in San Rafael, Calif. Reluctant to cut the price from its current listing of $1.54 million, its owners are instead offering a weeklong vacation time-share, every year for life, worth about $10,000, or an equal amount toward lease of a car.
''Location and value will give the buyers a reason -- this will give them a sense of urgency,'' said Tom Wessling, who owns the house with his wife, Brenda, and is being transferred to Atlanta. ''If nothing else, it will be the thing that calls attention'' to the house.
 In California, the Northeast, South Florida and parts of the Southwest, deal sweeteners like these are playing an increasingly important role in supporting home prices. From large national home builders to individual homeowners, many sellers are offering thousands of dollars in perks, including straight cash, so they do not have to slice deeply into asking prices. 
 But these discounts are almost entirely missing from the statistics on new-home prices reported by the government and on existing-home prices reported by the National Association of Realtors. As a result, home prices may now be falling, despite what the official numbers show, many economists say. 
 The use of rebates helps home builders and individual sellers by making the real estate market look healthier than it may truly be and by preventing a snowballing decline in home prices. It also keeps commissions for real estate agents higher than they would otherwise be. 
 In July, the national median price -- half sold for more and half for less -- of a newly built home was $230,000, the Commerce Department said yesterday. That is 0.3 percent higher than the median price a year ago. The number of new-home sales fell 21.6 percent over the last year, with the sharpest drop occurring in the Northeast.
 On Wednesday, the Realtor group reported that the median price of existing homes was also $230,000 in July, up 0.9 percent from a year earlier. 
 Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, estimated that incentives might now be equal to as much as 3 percent of the effective prices of houses across the country, on average. But he and other economists said there was simply no way to know for certain.
 ''We don't have any house price indexes that get it right,'' said Todd Sinai, an associate professor of real estate at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. 
 ''Sellers are pretty picky,'' he added. ''They are not willing to lower prices enough in downturns; they don't do it very quickly.'' Their reluctance delays sales, contributes to rising inventories and allows prices on the remaining transactions to show an annual increase.
 Incentives are most common in the new-home market, where builders are under financial pressure to sell empty homes and, as large businesses, have the ability to absorb the financial hit. Depending on the market, executives at the nation's biggest builders say the giveaways can equal 3 percent to 8 percent of a home's sale price. If builders instead reduced asking prices by that much, it would be enough to wipe out the year-over-year price gains in many markets. Last year, by contrast, many builders were selling out new subdivisions and condominiums in hours or days, often in auctions. 
 ''If you were going to sell the house exactly the way it was before, you would be looking at a price decline,'' said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
 But in a sign of the housing market's deterioration, creative -- and expensive -- lures are also becoming more common in the existing-home market. With many houses languishing on the market for months, buyers often have the leverage to request a last-minute concession of a few thousand dollars, or more, as a prerequisite to a sale. The subsidy often comes in the form of a discount on the amount of cash a seller must pay at closing.
 ''It's using a little psychology,'' said Frank Borges LLosa , who owns Frankly Realty in northern Virginia, an agency that mainly represents buyers. ''It makes it sometimes appear like I'm offering a higher price.''
 Mr. LLosa recently analyzed records for condominiums in one Virginia ZIP code and found that the use of subsidies had soared since last year, when they were almost nonexistent. In Arlington, 14 condominiums had sold for $350,000 to $550,000 since June 1, and 10 of them included a subsidy from the seller to the buyer. The average subsidy was more than $7,000. 
 The Wesslings of San Rafael have cut the price of their house twice, by a total of $160,000, since they put it on the market in May. Mr. Wessling, a marketing executive, believes the home is now ''competitively priced'' and hopes the perks, which also include a $10,000 reward for referring a qualified buyer, will be enough to clinch a deal.
 Mr. Zandi, the economist, said he believed that the use of perks was now approaching its peak and that sellers would soon be forced to cut list prices more heavily. He predicted that the home-price data released by the Realtors association would show a year-over-year decline, relative to the same month a year earlier, before the end of this year. If so, that would be the first such drop since 1993. The Realtors have never reported a drop in the annual average of national home prices, a fact frequently cited by real estate analysts. 
 ''The reason the Realtors' data has never showed an outright decline'' before, he said, ''might be that they're not measuring the effective price.''
 Lawrence Yun, a senior economist with the Realtors group, said that in markets where inventories had been rising rapidly -- like the Northeast and California -- incentives could well equal 3 percent of house values. But he estimated that the national number was smaller, because homes sales were continuing to rise in roughly a third of markets around the country. 
 The typical incentive package from a home builder consists of upgrades to the house -- granite countertops instead of humdrum tiles, stainless-steel refrigerators and stoves instead of plain white models and wood blinds instead of plastic. At the extremes, some have thrown in $30,000 swimming pools.
 Buyers who demand discounts often get them in the form of excused closing costs or low interest rate loans made by builder-affiliated mortgage companies.
 On the west coast of Florida, builders are advertising incentives like upgraded countertops, interest rate promotions and cash rebates totaling $40,000, or 6.6 percent to 8 percent of the sales price, on homes that sell for $500,000 to $600,000, said John Dew, a real estate agent in Naples.
 Builders tend to choose discounts because they worry that reductions in the list price would send a clear signal that the market is in trouble, potentially angering previous buyers and emboldening future customers.
 ''They already sold the same product to the guy next door and if they reduce the price he is going to scream,'' Mr. Dew said. He added that many builders were also offering agents bonuses worth tens of thousands of dollars in finders' fees for bringing in buyers.
 In effect, the incentives have become a quiet way to cut the price of houses without further damaging the market. Sellers ''don't want to create this environment of fear in the market that prices are going down, so you should wait to buy,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research in Washington, who believes that prices will fall in coming years.
 Incentives are often most substantial on homes built on speculation before a sales contract has been signed, or on properties that buyers have walked away from after signing a contract. Big builders report that cancellation rates are running as high as a third of new sales, compared with about 20 percent or less a year ago.
 Pulte Homes, for instance, was recently offering unspecified incentives totaling as much as $10,000 on homes in a Connecticut development to buyers who were willing to move in before school started. In the spring, Centex Homes ran a ''24-hour sale'' in Southern California where buyers who agreed to purchase within the day could get a $100,000 discount. It ran a similar offer for a $60,000 discount in Atlanta.
 Lenders are also wary of incentives. Lenders do not want to finance transactions where the sales price exceeds the true value of the home. Fannie Mae, the large buyer of mortgages, requires disclosure of perks and it caps them on a sliding scale from 2 percent to 9 percent of selling prices, depending on whether buyers will live in the home and based on the size of the down payment. The concerns of lenders will eventually limit the size of incentives in home sales, said Anthony Hsieh, president of LendingTree.com, the Web loan site. Many buyers may also balk because their property taxes will be based on the sales price listed on the contract.
 Eventually, buyers will realize ''there is no free lunch,'' he said. ''There is a reason it's being given away.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Wessling, top, is trying to sell her home in San Rafael, Calif. A flier, left, offers a $10,000 reward for bringing in a buyer. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Brenda and Tom Wessling have cut the price of their home twice since putting it on the market in May. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RESORTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) National Assn of Realtors; Commerce Department

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



470 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales and Goods Orders Fall Markedly

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes and orders for durable goods both fell more than expected in July, providing further evidence of slowing economic growth.
 The Commerce Department reported Thursday that new-home sales fell at an annual pace of 4.3 percent last month, the biggest drop since an 11.5 percent plunge in February and the lowest annual pace since February as well. 
Home sales slid to a seasonally adjusted 1.072 million units annually, and a measure of inventory jumped to a 10-year high, pointing to a rapidly cooling housing market.
 Analysts polled by Reuters had expected an annual pace of 1.1 million units.
 The supply of homes available for sale at the current pace rose to 6.5 months, the highest since a 6.8-month supply in November 1995.
 There were 568,000 new homes available for sale at the end of the month, a record high. The median sales price of a new home slipped to $230,000, still above the median price a year earlier of $229,200.
 Sales dropped 8 percent in the South, the busiest region, and 21.3 percent in the Midwest. They rose by 11.7 percent in the West, the second-busiest region, and by 1.8 percent in the Northeast.
 New-home sales, which are recorded on contract, usually before the home is built, can be seen as a gauge of future economic activity.
 Other reports on Thursday showed that new orders for durable goods fell 2.4 percent last month, much more than expected, as civilian aircraft and car orders tumbled.
 It was the first drop in orders for durable goods -- items built to last three years or longer -- in three months, the Commerce Department said. Analysts had expected durable goods orders to decline 0.5 percent.
 Excluding transportation, durable goods orders rose by a stronger-than-expected 0.5 percent, as vehicle and parts orders dropped 7 percent and civilian aircraft orders slid 10 percent. Analysts had expected a 0.3 percent rise. When military orders were excluded, durable goods orders unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent. The analysts had expected a 0.5 percent rise in orders excluding armaments.
 In a category that many see as a signal on business spending, nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft rose 1.5 percent, much more than the 0.4 percent expected.
 ''At least the manufacturing sector is still doing reasonably well,'' said Matthew Strauss, senior currency strategist for RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.
 A Labor Department report showed that the number of workers seeking unemployment benefits for the first time declined by 1,000 last week. Claims totaled 313,000, down from an upward-revised 314,000 the week before, and slightly below the 315,000 analysts had forecast.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gertrude Fish and a salesman discussing features of a refrigerator, by definition a durable good, in New York. (Photo by Tom Starkweather/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.July: -4.3%June: -0.9May: +0.8(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DEFENSE ORDERS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) United States Economy; Sales; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles

COMPANY: RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



471 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

 BODY:

WIDER CONTRACEPTIVE SALES -- The Food and Drug Administration approved over-the-counter sales of the morning-after contraceptive called Plan B to those 18 and older, resolving one of the most contentious issues in the agency's history. Over-the-counter sales will begin by the end of the year. [Page A1.] 


FINANCIAL SIDE EFFECTS -- The long political debate over the Plan B emergency contraceptive pill may have helped raise the profile of its maker, Barr Pharmaceuticals, but over-the-counter sales of Plan B will barely register on the company's balance sheet. That is why Barr does not plan to advertise the drug on television or radio. [C1.]

APPLE RECALLS BATTERIES -- Apple Computer said it was recalling 1.8 million battery packs from some laptop computer models because of a risk that they could overheat and catch fire. The batteries were made by a unit of Sony, which also made the 4.1 million laptop batteries that Dell recalled last week. [C1.]

HOME SALE DISCOUNTS -- As home sales fall rapidly and the number of houses on the market continues to surge, many sellers are offering thousands of dollars in perks so they do not have to slice deeply into asking prices. As a result, home prices may now be falling, despite what the official numbers show, many economists say. [C1.]

HONG KONG AND THE LAW -- An assault on one of Hong Kong's best-known lawmakers and litigators could raise concerns about the potential for damage to Hong Kong's reputation for the fair settlement of disputes in court. [C1.]

AOL TO OFFER 4 STUDIOS' MOVIES -- AOL said it would offer movies from four major Hollywood studios for downloading on its Internet video service. [C7.]

SIGNS OF SLOWING GROWTH -- Sales of new homes and orders for durable goods both fell more than expected in July, providing further evidence of slowing economic growth. [C3.]

STOCKS EDGE HIGHER -- Wall Street managed a razor-thin gain as investors sifted through data that pointed to stable interest rates, but also suggested that the economy had moderated more than expected. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.56 points, to 11,304.46. [C7.]

FANNIE MAE CASE DROPPED -- Almost two years after it started investigating accounting improprieties at Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant, the Justice Department is no longer pursuing criminal charges, the company and federal officials said. [C3.]

RUSSIANS RETURN PHONES -- The Russian authorities returned 117,519 Motorola mobile phones worth $15 million that had been seized at a Moscow airport five months ago. [A7.]

LABOR DISPUTE GOES TO COURT -- The makings of an old-fashioned airline labor standoff involving Northwest Airlines, flight attendants and the federal government will come together today in federal court in New York. [C3.]

DRUGSTORE SALE ANNOUNCED -- The Jean Coutu Group of Canada confirmed it would sell its Eckerd and Brooks drugstore chains in the United States to Rite Aid for $2.55 billion in cash and stock. When the deal is completed, Coutu, founded by Jean Coutu, above, a pharmacist who wears a lab coat at work and occasionally dispenses pills at his stores, will own about 30 percent of Rite Aid. [C5.]

CHINESE BANK DEAL -- The China Construction Bank, one of China's four main state-controlled banks, agreed to buy the retail banking operations in Hong Kong and Macao of the Bank of America for $1.25 billion. [C5.]

LAWYER LEAVING EMBATTLED FIRM -- The embattled securities class-action law firm, Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, was dealt another blow after a prominent trial lawyer, Patricia M. Hynes, said she was leaving. [C3.]

MAKING A NAME FOR CW -- To help their new CW broadcast network gain traction in the proverbial 500-channel universe, CBS and Time Warner are sponsoring an ambitious campaign to create an identity for it. Stuart Elliott, Advertising. [C7.]

WAL-MART DROPS NEW YORK SITE -- Wal-Mart's plans to open its first New York City store in Staten Island have fallen through, company officials confirmed. [B6.]

ONLINE

SWEET, WEIRD OR FRAUD? Virginia Heffernan evaluates the competing claims for an online video star, lonelygirl15, in her blog at screens.blogs.nytimes.com.

THE POUR -- Eric Asimov, chief wine critic for The Times, discusses the pleasure, culture and business of wine, beer and spirits in his blog at thepour.blogs.nytimes.com.

HOUSING VIRGINS OF MANHATTAN -- The first apartment hunt is a rite of passage in the jungle that is Manhattan. For the newest New Yorkers, it is a crash course in street smarts. A report is at nytimes.com/realestate.

DRIVE TIMES -- A comprehensive source of auto reviews and car industry news from The Times and around the Web is available in newsletter form at nytimes.com/automobiles.

SMALL BUSINESSES ABROAD -- The language, legal and social barriers to starting an international small business may prove costly, but for those who are up for the challenge, the rewards can be great. A report is at nytimes.com/worldbusiness.

OUT OF SIBERIA -- In a shift from controversial and legally questionable practices in the 1990's, Russia's richest men are seeking legitimacy by investing abroad. A report is at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

YOUR MONEY -- Look ahead at the news that will affect your finances with a free weekly newsletter available at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Barr Pharmaceuticals shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FILM (86%); AIRLINES (83%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); US FDA APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); DURABLE GOODS (64%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); AIRPORTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); BARR PHARMACEUTICALS INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (85%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



472 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 15363 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: August 25 - August 31

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the Northeast this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Broadway

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, ''The Drowsy Chaperone'' has theatergoers responding as if they were withering house plants, finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the eager, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE HISTORY BOYS' (Tony Awards, best play and best direction of a play, 2006) Madly enjoyable. Alan Bennett's play about a battle for the hearts and minds of a group of university-bound students, imported with the original British cast from the National Theater, moves with a breezy narrative swagger that transcends cultural barriers. Directed by Nicholas Hytner, with a perfectly oiled ensemble led by the superb Richard Griffiths and Stephen Campbell Moore as schoolmasters with opposing views of history and education (2:40). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, best musical, 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'KIKI AND HERB: ALIVE ON BROADWAY' This transcendental lounge act -- made up of Kiki (Justin Bond), a molting songbird for all seasons, and Herb (Kenny Mellman), her happily suffering shadow and accompanist -- has the heat and dazzle of great balls of fire. Vital, funny and surprisingly affecting (2:00). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political-correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARTIN SHORT: FAME BECOMES ME' This eager and amiably scattershot satire of celebrity memoirs and Broadway musicals, starring the immodestly modest Mr. Short, arrives a little late to the table for such parody to taste fresh. With serviceably tuneful songs by Scott Wittman and Marc Shaiman (of ''Hairspray'' fame) (1:45). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' (Tony Award, best direction of a musical, 2006) Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a super-deluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Laura Benanti, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'CREATION: A CLOWN SHOW' Lucas Caleb Rooney is a cross between Red Skelton and Will Ferrell in this sweet, funny, poignant mostly one-man show about the biblical story of earth's first seven days (1:15). Theater Five, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Anita Gates)

'EVERYTHINgS TURNING INTO BEAUTIFUL' Seth Zvi Rosenfeld's thrill-free demi-musical about a pair of commitment-wary songwriters (Daphne Rubin-Vega and Malik Yoba) is clearly intended to progress from wintry loneliness to heated confrontation and eroticism. But it remains stolidly at room temperature. Directed by Carl Forsman, with songs by Jimmie James (1:50). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'GARDEL: THE MUSICAL' A standard-issue bio-musical about the tango legend Carlos Gardel wallows in melodrama (1:30). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 225-9920. (Jason Zinoman)

'INDIAN BLOOD' As slight as it is sweet, A. R. Gurney's latest is like a snow globe for the stage, in this case a memento of wintry Buffalo in the mid-1940's. Written with delicacy and old-school craftsmanship, the work is a modest memory play endowed with a measure of emotional heft by its unchallenged but unusually strong cast, which includes John McMartin and Rebecca Luker (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Drew Sarich) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'MOTHER COURAGE AND HER CHILDREN' If you ever wanted to watch one willowy human being lift a 12-ton play onto her shoulders and hold it there for hours, even as her muscles buckle, join the line to see Meryl Streep burning energy like a supernova in this otherwise less-than-stunning production. Directed by George C. Wolfe, from a new translation by Tony Kushner (2:30). Delacorte Theater, Central Park, (212) 539-8750; free. (Brantley)

'MR. DOOLEY'S AMERICA' Martin J. Dooley, the wisest fictional pub owner in 1890's Chicago, brings his old newspaper columns back to life with funny, surprisingly timely issues-of-the-day commentary in this likable two-man play (1:40). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Gates)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'PIG FARM' A gleefully stupid comedy by Greg Kotis about lust and violence in the farm belt, with a few gristly bits of satire aimed at the fat-bellied American electorate thrown in for good measure. Powered by the frenzied commitment of the four skilled actors who make up its cast, the comedy careers around the stage like an interminable improv session for a still-unformulated sketch on ''Saturday Night Live.'' (2:15). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)

'SHOUT!' A mini-skirted, go-go-booted zombie of a musical about women searching for love in London in the 1960's. You won't see anything this groovy, this far-out, this with-it outside of, oh, maybe the showroom of a Carnival Cruise ship (1:30). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'HENRIK IBSEN + JON FOSSE: NORWAY MEETS NEW YORK' Ibsen's late-19th-century ''Rosmersholm'' and Fosse's contemporary ''deathvariations'' both deal with suicide, among other life dramas. The Ibsen has problems, but the Fosse is often stunning and fiercely poetic (2:00 and 1:15). At the 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, between Madison and Park Avenues, (212) 279-4200. (Gates)

Spectacles

'ABSINTHE' Think Cirque du Soleil as channeled through ''Rocky Horror'' and painted by George Grosz. Part cabaret, part circus, ''Absinthe'' aims at a kind of seedy decadence that's mingled with the simple, aw-shucks wonder of knife-jugglers, sword-swallowers and a man creating constructions out of soap bubbles. It's the main event at the Spiegeltent, a vintage European tradition visiting South Street Seaport this summer (1:30). Spiegeltent, at the former Fulton Fish Market site, Pier 17, South Street, under the Brooklyn Bridge, (212) 279-4200. (Anne Midgette)

'REVEREND BILLY AND THE CHURCH OF STOP-SHOPPING' Reverend Billy (a k a the performance artist Bill Talen) struts and preaches his way across the Spiegeltent stage accompanied by a choir and a fine seven-piece band. Radical political theater has rarely been more thoughtful or fun (1:30). Spiegeltent, at the former Fulton Fish Market site, Pier 17, South Street, under the Brooklyn Bridge, (212) 279-4200. (George Hunka)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' Another excavation of what seems to have become Broadway's favorite musical terrain -- call it Scamalot, where con men are king (see ''The Producers''). Now starring Keith Carradine and Brian D'Arcy James as the mismatched swindlers (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron District, (212) 307-4100. ( Lawrence Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'ANAIS NIN: ONE OF HER LIVES' Angela Christian is superb as Nin in this uneven but largely rewarding production about her affair with Henry Miller and his wife, June, in Paris in the 1930's (1:30). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing tomorrow. (Gates)

'CRAZY FOR THE DOG' Christopher Boal's effective family melodrama about a brother, a sister, a wife and a boyfriend caught in a web of recrimination and confession, touched off by the kidnapping of a shih tzu (2:00). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212) 677-0060, Ext. 16; closing tomorrow. (Hunka)

'THE DISPUTE' Marivaux's 1744 comedy about sex roles is like a sci-fi romance and, in the hands of the National Asian American Theater Company, an enchanting piece of theater (1:10). The Abingdon Theater, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. (Gates)

'EVENSONG' Mary Gage's rewarding six-character play is a reflection on the diversity of human experience and a reminder never to define the elderly by their age (1:35). TBG Arts Center, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 352-3101; closing on Sunday. (Gates)

'A STONE CARVER' Despite the high cliche factor, William Mastrosimone's play about an Italian immigrant who is losing his house to a highway exit is timely and sporadically touching, largely because of Dan Lauria's over-the-top performance as the title character and old-world patriarch who makes a mean barrel of wine and never talks when he can shout (1:40). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555; closing on Sunday. (Andrea Stevens)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ACCEPTED' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A clever slacker and his oddball crew invent a phony college in this passable example of that oxymoronic genre, the Hollywood comedy about sticking it to the man. (Nathan Lee)

* 'AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH' (PG, 96 minutes) Al Gore gives a lecture on climate change. One of the most exciting and necessary movies of the year. Seriously. (A. O. Scott)

'THE ANT BULLY' (PG, 90 minutes) A young boy goes to live among the ants, who talk remarkably like Academy Award-winning actors. (Scott)

'BARNYARD' (PG, 88 minutes) The barnyard animals in this crude 3-D animation walk, talk and party down like human beings. Way too often the male ''cows,'' as the film calls them, also flash their udders. (Manohla Dargis)

'The Beales of Grey Gardens' (No rating, 90 minutes) The Maysles brothers dig into their archives for this collection of outtakes from ''Grey Gardens,'' their 1975 cinema verite classic about the most fascinating cat ladies in the Hamptons. Essential viewing for drag queens. (Lee)

'BOYNTON BEACH CLUB' (No rating, 104 minutes) A fast-paced romantic comedy about frisky 60-something residents of a Florida ''active adult'' community, ''Boynton Beach Club'' is a rose-colored fantasy about aging that has just enough credibility to make you care about its characters and wish them merrily on their way. (Stephen Holden)

'THE BREAK-UP' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn split up and share custody of a Chicago condominium. Dull and cheerless, notwithstanding a handful of funny supporting turns, notably from Judy Davis and Jason Bateman. (Scott)

* 'THE BRIDESMAID' (No rating, 110 minutes, in French) The great Claude Chabrol again takes up a sharp instrument and directs it at one of his favorite targets, the family. Yet while his aim remains true, his touch has become gentler, more forgiving. (Dargis) 'CARS' (G, 114 minutes) The latest 3-D toon from Pixar just putt- putt-putts along, a shining model of technological progress and consumer safety. John Lasseter directed, and Owen Wilson provides the voice of the little red race car who learns all the right lessons from, among others, a 1951 Hudson Hornet given voice by Paul Newman. (Dargis)

'The Celestine Prophecy' (PG, 100 minutes) A delectable fusion of new age babble and luridly bad filmmaking based on the best-selling book by James Redfield. (Dargis)

* 'CHANGING TIMES' (No rating, 95 minutes, in French and Arabic) Gerard Depardieu and Catherine Deneuve star in Andre Techine's rich, warmhearted exploration of cultural collision in contemporary Tangier. A half-dozen skillfully interwoven subplots create a set of variations on the theme of divided sensibilities tugging one another into states of perpetual unrest and possible happiness. (Holden)

'CLERKS II' (R, 98 minutes) More than a decade later, Kevin Smith's New Jersey underachievers have moved from a convenience store to a fast-food franchise. The humor is reliably filthy and frequently hilarious, and the filmmaking is a few steps above rudimentary, but the movie's poignant sweetness is disarming. It has a dirty mind, but its heart is remarkably pure. (Scott)

'CLICK' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Adam Sandler stars in this unfunny comedy about a harried family man who uses a universal remote to hop-scotch through time. It's a wonderful life, not. (Dargis)

'CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN' (No rating, 84 minutes) Two old flames meet, years after parting, and have a short fling. An arch, banal conceit, of some interest for Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter's performances and the split-screen gimmick that keeps them apart even in their intimate moments. (Scott)

'THE DA VINCI CODE' (PG-13, 148 minutes) Theology aside, ''The Da Vinci Code'' is, above all, a murder mystery. And as such, once it gets going, Ron Howard's movie has its pleasures. He and the screenwriter Akiva Goldsman have deftly rearranged some elements of the plot, unkinking a few overelaborate twists and introducing others that keep the action moving along. The movie does, however, take a while to accelerate, popping the clutch and leaving rubber on the road as it tries to establish who is who, what he's doing and why. So I certainly can't support any calls for boycotting or protesting this busy, trivial, inoffensive film. Which is not to say that I'm recommending that you go see it. (Scott)

* 'THE DESCENT' (R, 99 minutes) A total horror freakout from the British writer and director Neil Marshall about six women on a caving expedition who meet their fears and some scary monsters, too. (Dargis)

'THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA' (PG-13, 106 minutes) Lauren Weisberger's score-settling best seller about a terrible (and famous) boss is reimagined and reversed. Anne Hathaway plays the beleaguered assistant, but she is much less interesting -- and in the end less sympathetic -- than the boss, Miranda Priestly, incarnated by Meryl Streep as a subtle and searching (and very funny) portrait of glamour and power. (Scott)

* 'FACTOTUM' (R, 94 minutes) Matt Dillon goes deep to play Henry Chinaski, the familiar alter ego of the great Charles Bukowski, who survived countless benders, brawls, rejection slips, crazy women and soul-killing jobs. The Norwegian filmmaker Bent Hamer directed. (Dargis)

'FRATRICIDE' (No rating, 96 minutes, in Kurdish, German and Turkish) The familiar story of the innocent soul who travels from the country to the big, bad city receives a thorough workout from the Turkish-born German-transplant Yilmaz Arslan. If the human disembowelment via a pit bull doesn't bum you out, the child rape should do the trick. (Dargis)

* 'Gabrielle' (No rating, 90 minutes) A film of eccentric beauty and wild feeling, directed by the consistently inventive Patrice Chereau and starring the supremely well-matched Pascal Greggory and Isabelle Huppert, about the dissolution of a haut-bourgeois Parisian marriage, around 1912. (Dargis)

'THE GROOMSMEN' (R, 93 minutes) Just when it seems that Edward Burns might have pulled off an American ''I Vitelloni,'' his X-ray vision into life in an Irish-American enclave in New York glazes over, and he resolves his characters' anxiety and despair with tearful hugs and phony reassurances. (Holden)

* 'Half Nelson' (R, 107 minutes) In their beautiful bummer about the relationship between a white teacher (Ryan Gosling) and a black student (Shareeka Epps), the gifted young director Ryan Fleck and his writing partner, Anna Boden, offer a lament for the radical fires of the 1960's and a suggestion for life and politics after the new left. (Dargis)

* 'HEADING SOUTH' (No rating, 105 minutes, in English and French) Sex tourism involving middle-aged white women and black beach boys at a Haitian resort in the late 1970's is the subject of Laurent Cantet's third film, one of the most truthful explorations of desire, age and youth ever filmed, with a politically charged subtext about capitalist imperialism. (Holden)

* 'HOUSE OF SAND' (R, 115 minutes, in Portuguese) Beautifully shot in a sandy, remote corner of northern Brazil, this film tells the story of three generations of women, all of them played by Fernanda Montenegro and Fernanda Torres, mother and daughter in real life and two of the national treasures of Brazilian cinema. (Scott)

* 'THE ILLUSIONIST' (PG-13, 109 minutes) This tells the story of Eisenheim (Edward Norton), a fictional conjurer who enraptured Viennese audiences in 1900 with his supernatural magic shows. A terrific yarn, it rouses your slumbering belief in the miraculous. (Holden)

'KING LEOPOLD'S GHOST' (No rating, 108 minutes) An overloaded, visually chaotic, well-meaning documentary about King Leopold of Belgium's genocidal adventures in the Congo, directed by Pippa Scott from the Adam Hochschild best seller. (Dargis)

'LADY IN THE WATER' (PG-13, 108 minutes) In this watchable folly, Paul Giamatti plays a building manager who encounters a menagerie of otherworldly creatures, most important Bryce Dallas Howard's water nymph. The writer and director M. Night Shyamalan wants us to believe, mostly in the myth of his own genius. (Dargis)

'LITTLE MAN' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A belligerent midget jewel thief assaults groins and molests women in this infantile comedy from the Wayans brothers. (Lee)

* 'Little Miss Sunshine' (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin. (Dargis)

'MATERIAL GIRLS' (PG, 97 minutes) The real-life sisters Hilary and Haylie Duff star in this incompetent spin on the poor-little-rich-girl story from, alas, Martha Coolidge. (Dargis)

* 'MIAMI VICE' (R, 133 minutes) This updating of the 1980's television series cost more than the annual budget of the real-life Miami Police Department, making it the most expensive experimental art film ever made. (Scott)

* 'MONSTER HOUSE' (PG, 86 minutes) This scary movie for kids provides more fun in 86 minutes than all the other would-be summer blockbusters combined. A trio of intrepid youngsters face down a demonic dwelling in a quiet suburb. The motion-capture animation produces an uncanny feeling of realism, while the fantastical effects are spooky, witty and spectacular. (Scott)

'MY COUNTRY, MY COUNTRY' (No rating, 90 minutes, in Arabic, English and Kurdish) Filmed in Iraq from June 2004 to February 2005, ''My Country, My Country'' views the prelude to the January elections primarily through the eyes of Dr. Riyadh, a Sunni candidate and physician who runs a free clinic in Baghdad. Without comment but with unusual sensitivity, the director, Laura Poitras, exposes the emotional toll of occupation on Iraqis and United States soldiers alike, leaving us feeling that this particular mission is far from accomplished. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'NACHO LIBRE' (PG, 91 minutes) A sweet bliss-out from the writers Mike White, Jerusha Hess and Jared Hess, who also directed, that finds a glorious Jack Black as a half-Mexican, half-Scandinavian monastery cook who aches to belong to another brotherhood, that of the luchadores, or masked wrestlers. (Dargis)

'THE NIGHT LISTENER' (R, 82 minutes) Robin Williams plays a writer and radio host who strikes up a long-distance friendship with a young man who may not exist. An intriguing premise, but not satisfyingly realized. (Scott)

'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest' (PG-13, 151 minutes) Although there are memorable bits and pieces, this is a movie with no particular interest in coherence, economy or feeling. (Scott)

'POSTER BOY' (R, 98 minutes) A polemic masquerading as a movie, ''Poster Boy'' follows the closeted gay son (Matt Newton) of a Jesse Helms-style senator (Michael Lerner) as he gears up for a major act of filial rebellion. Directed by Zak Tucker with more sincerity than skill, ''Poster Boy'' is a plodding indictment of extreme conservative intolerance. But it's difficult to feel sorry for its hero when he's having so much fun feeling sorry for himself. (Catsoulis)

* 'A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Garrison Keillor's long-running Public Radio hootenanny turns out to be the perfect vehicle for Robert Altman's fluid, chaotic humanism. The performances -- especially by Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep as a pair of singing sisters -- are so full of relaxed vitality that you almost don't notice that the film is, at heart, a wry, sober contemplation of mortality. (Scott)

'Pulse' (PG-13, 87 minutes) Evil technology menaces idiotic teenagers in this cynical remake of a Japanese horror film. (Lee)

'THE PUSHER TRILOGY' (No rating, 105 minutes, 96 minutes and 102 minutes, in Danish) Life and death on the mean streets of Copenhagen -- they evidently exist -- are rendered with pungent detail and excellent discipline in this tough trio of underworld thrillers. (Lee)

* 'QUINCEANERA' (R, 90 minutes) This portrait of a Mexican-American family living in a Latino neighborhood of Los Angeles is as smart and warm-hearted an exploration of an upwardly mobile immigrant culture as American independent cinema has produced. (Holden)

'A SCANNER DARKLY' (R, 100 minutes) Identities shift and melt like shadows in Richard Linklater's animated adaptation of the Philip K. Dick semispeculative novel ''A Scanner Darkly,'' a look at a future that appears an awful lot like today. With the voices and gestures of Keanu Reeves, Woody Harrelson, Winona Ryder and a wonderful Robert Downey Jr. (Dargis)

* 'Scoop' (PG-13, 96 minutes) A not especially funny yet oddly appealing comedy in which Woody Allen and Scarlett Johansson make like Nick and Nora, but with more shtick and no martinis (or Asta). (Dargis)

'SNAKES ON A PLANE' (R, 105 minutes) Snakes + plane + Samuel L. Jackson. David R. Ellis provides the fine B-movie-style direction while Mr. Jackson supplies the cool and his trademark 13-letter epithet. (Dargis)

'STEP UP' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Ever since Kevin Bacon's rebellious hips ignited a small-town uproar in ''Footloose,'' the modern high school romance has placed a premium on rhythm. In ''Step Up'' a rough Baltimore kid (Channing Tatum), armed only with a killer smile and hip-hop moves, falls for a classically trained dancer (Jenna Dewan). Bland but likable, the movie fashions social equality from big musical numbers. If ballet and hip-hop can coexist, it asks, why can't we all be friends? (Catsoulis)

'STRANGERS WITH CANDY' (R, 87 minutes) High school high jinks, adapted from the beloved Comedy Central series. The comedy is stretched a little thin by the feature length, but there are still some laughs. (Scott)

'SUPERMAN RETURNS' (PG-13, 157 minutes) Last seen larking about on the big screen in the 1987 dud ''Superman IV,'' the Man of Steel has been resurrected in Bryan Singer's leaden new film not only to fight for truth, justice and the American way, but also to give Mel Gibson's passion a run for his box-office money. Where once the superhero flew up, up and away, he now flies down, down, down, sent from above to save mankind from its sins and another bummer summer. (Dargis)

'TALLADEGA NIGHTS: THE BALLAD OF RICKY BOBBY' (PG-13, 110 minutes) Fast, fun and silly, with Will Ferrell as a Nascar driver, Sacha Baron Cohen as his nemesis, and a new course record for product placements per gallon. (Scott)

'10TH AND WOLF' (R, 110 minutes) A grisly gangster movie with moral pretensions, ''10th and Wolf'' never transcends mobster cliches recycled from ''The Godfather,'' ''Donnie Brasco'' and ''GoodFellas.'' (Holden)

'13 Tzameti' (No rating, 90 minutes) The flashy black-and-white directorial debut of the Georgian filmmaker Gela Babluani is a sadistic, arty thriller that suggests a French new wave film infected by a virulent strain of Eastern European nihilism. (Holden)

'TRUST THE MAN' (R, 101 minutes) A strained, flatulent relationship comedy about two couples, from the writer and director Bart Freundlich. With Julianne Moore, David Duchovny, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Billy Crudup. (Dargis)

* 'WORLD TRADE CENTER' (PG-13, 129 minutes) From Oliver Stone, a return to the emotions of 9/11. Powerful and almost unbearably moving. (Scott)

'X-MEN: THE LAST STAND' (PG-13, 104 minutes) As expected, the third and presumably last film about the powerful Marvel Comics mutants who walk and often fight among us pretty much looks and plays like the first two, though perhaps with more noise and babes, and a little less glum. The credited writers here are Simon Kinberg and Zak Penn, who, like the director, Brett Ratner, are not mutant enough to fly. (Dargis)

'You, Me and Dupree' (PG-13, 108 minutes) Owen Wilson stars as the dude who comes to dinner and stays way past dessert in Joe and Anthony Russo's generally unfunny comedy. A fine Matt Dillon and a decorative Kate Hudson also star, rather more wanly. (Dargis)

Film Series

THE BEST OF BUSTER: KEATON COMEDY CLASSICS (Through Sept. 25) Film Forum's eight-film, eight-week festival of the silent comedies of the brilliantly stone-faced Keaton (1895-1966) continues on Monday night with ''Steamboat Bill Jr.'' (1925), about the prissy son of a manly riverboat captain. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Anita Gates)

KUROSAWA (Through Sept. 18) The IFC Center's series honoring Akira Kurosawa continues this weekend with ''Throne of Blood'' (1955), the ''Macbeth'' story set in medieval Japan. Toshiro Mifune stars, of course. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

THE LEADING MEN OF FRENCH CINEMA (Through Sunday) BAMcinematek's tribute to 17 French actors ends this weekend with three films. Patrick Dewaere plays a self-destructive suburban salesman in ''Serie Noire'' (1979). Gerard Depardieu is a cad having an affair with Isabelle Huppert's upper-middle-class character in ''Loulou'' (1980). And Jean-Pierre Leaud stars in ''The Mother and the Whore'' (1973), a drama about the games people play and call sexual liberation. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

THE HUSTON FAMILY: 75 YEARS ON FILM (Through Sept. 22) The Museum of Modern Art's 40-film tribute to the Hustons and their intertwined careers continues with eight films this weekend. They include ''A Walk With Love and Death'' (1969), Anjelica's screen debut; the Tennessee Williams drama ''The Night of the Iguana'' (1964), directed and adapted by John; and ''The Shanghai Gesture'' (1941), a noir melodrama starring Walter. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

MARY PICKFORD RESTORED (Through Sept. 3) The Museum of the Moving Image honors Hollywood's first real movie star with restored 35-millimeter prints of some of her silent films. The series begins tomorrow with ''Behind the Scenes'' (1914), about a movie star who marries a farmer, and ''The Little American'' (1917), a World War I story directed by Cecil B. DeMille. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* BEIRUT (Tonight) Beirut is the project of Zach Condon, a 20-year-old Albuquerque native who recently released ''Gulag Orkestar'' (Ba Da Bing), an album of somber and ecstatic Balkan Gypsy marches, recording most of the horns, pianos, organs, percussion and even ukulele and mandolins himself. In just a few months, thanks to some high-energy shows, it has become the toast of the indie-rock intelligentsia. With Get Him Eat Him, the Harlem Shakes and Curtains. At 8:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; sold out. (Ben Sisario)

CHARLES BISSELL (Tuesday) In the Wrens, a New Jersey band of late-1980's vintage that is known as much for its struggles in making records as for its wonderful music, Mr. Bissell sings about exhaustion, day jobs and failed dreams with an intensity seldom matched by rockers half his age. While fans wait for a new album -- they are used to waiting -- Mr. Bissell is in residence on Tuesday nights in the small Tap Bar, downstairs at the Knitting Factory. With Roman Kuebler and John Ralston. At 8 p.m., 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $8. (Sisario)

BLACK EYED PEAS, PUSSYCAT DOLLS (Tonight and Tuesday) These two pop monsters are at the top of their game, churning out hit after hit of sexy, hip-hop-flavored bubble gum. But enough about music; which will be dressed better? Tonight at 7, Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000, nikonjonesbeach.com; $29.50 to $59.50. Tuesday at 7 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; $25 to $59.50. (Sisario)

BRAIN SURGEONS NYC (Tonight) The current wave of retro-metal ironists have nothing on Albert Bouchard, who in Blue Oyster Cult expertly navigated the boundary between earnestness and parody. His latest project is Brain Surgeons NYC, which includes Ross the Boss of the Dictators and Manowar on guitar. With the Marc Shulman Blues Band. At 9, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $12. (Sisario)

DAVID BROMBERG AND THE ANGEL BAND (Thursday) Mr. Bromberg can play just about anything with strings -- guitar, dobro, mandolin, fiddle -- and his knowledge of American music spans blues, bluegrass, country and rock. He also has a gift for elaborate verbal riffs that turn his long-suffering blues into comedy. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $35 in advance, $40 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

* CHRIS BROWN, NE-YO, LIL WAYNE, DEM FRANCHIZE BOYZ, JUELZ SANTANA, CHERISH (Tomorrow) Looking for proof that girls rule? This sure-to-be-riotous concert brings together a night full of male performers (plus the four sisters of Cherish), for the delectation of a few thousand screaming female fans. Mr. Brown and Cherish will dance, Ne-Yo will croon, the others will rap, all of them blurring the fine line that separates the entertainment industry from the service industry. At 8 p.m., Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000, nikonjonesbeach.com; $29.50 to $89.50. (Kelefa Sanneh)

* MARIAH CAREY (Sunday) Before there was ''Idol'' there was Mariah, who made octave-hopping melisma a sport and never met a song she couldn't ride to No. 1. Young singers afraid of being a flash in the pan could learn a lot from Ms. Carey's recent comeback, which relied on fresh hip-hop producers and songwriters. With Sean Paul. At 8 p.m. Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $19.50 to $152. (Sisario)

CROSBY, STILLS, NASH AND YOUNG (Sunday) It's the fourth partner, Neil Young, who just might push this alliance beyond self-satisfied baby-boom nostalgia and vocal harmonies into something like rock. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $255.50 tickets remaining. (Pareles)

BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. The songs date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity, and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133, dannysgrandseapalace.com; $25, with a $15 minimum, or $54.50 for a dinner-and-show package. (Stephen Holden)

BOB DYLAN (Tuesday) It might not make sense that Bob Dylan is playing at minor-league baseball stadiums this summer, but his devotion is on record: this is the third year he has done the tour, and a baseball-theme episode of his XM Satellite Radio show -- in which the singer of ''Masters of War'' and ''Like a Rolling Stone'' does an a cappella ''Take Me Out to the Ballgame'' -- has been added to the archive of the National Baseball Hall of Fame Library. With Jimmie Vaughan, Junior Brown, Elana James and the Continental Two. At 6:30 p.m., New Britain Stadium, New Britain, Conn., (860) 224-8383 or (860) 525-4500, concertstonight.com; $49.50; one child under 12 will be admitted free with each ticket holder. (Sisario)

FINAL FANTASY (Thursday) Owen Pallett, who wrote the stirring string arrangements for the Arcade Fire's album ''Funeral,'' creates nervous universes in miniature as Final Fantasy, looping ribbons of violin around his quavering voice. He named his project after a video game, which he has described in terms that suit the music as well: ''ridiculously overwrought and convoluted emotionally.'' With Bob Wiseman and Arbor Day. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sisario)

DIAMANDA GALAS (Thursday) Though she is invariably dressed in black, with her face in witchy streaks of makeup, Ms. Galas needs only her voice to terrify, seduce and beguile. She slides from a low, sensual growl to painful yet musically precise shrieks, and has a vast repertory that ranges from Johnny Cash ballads to her own chilling AIDS Masses. In the last of four shows at the Spiegeltent downtown, she offers a multicultural history lesson in outsiders' songs, from the rebetika of the Greek underworld to works of the French poetes maudits; her voice should particularly shine in her performance of the wailing, improvisatory funeral lamentations known as amanethes. At 6 p.m., the former Fulton Fish Market, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $30. (Sisario)

* TED LEO/PHARMACISTS (Tonight) The South Street Seaport concert each year by Mr. Leo -- as talented a songwriter as there is in the punk-pop world -- has become an obstinate rite of summer in New York. For the last four years the elements have conspired to shut him down, but each time, despite heavy rains and even, in 2003, the biggest blackout in American history, the show has triumphantly gone on. With DC Snipers and Tokyo Police Club. At 6, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 835-2789, seaportmusicfestival.com; free. (Sisario)

MAGIC NUMBERS (Wednesday) Perfectly jangly bubble-gum harmonies of mid-1960's vintage get a slight melancholy twist with this British foursome, made up of brother-and-sister pairs. At 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario)

JOHN MAYER/SHERYL CROW (Sunday and Wednesday) Along with his songwriting chops, the sloe-eyed singer and guitarist John Mayer brings to the folk-rock sphere a winsome combination of earnest, sexy questing and easygoing humor. With her girlish voice and her sunny, straightforward tunes, Sheryl Crow keeps her perspective on all the disappointments and troubled romances she sings about. Sunday at 7 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; Wednesday at 7 p.m., Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000, nikonjonesbeach.com; $30.50 to $76. (Pareles)

OLIVER MTUKUDZI (Thursday) Like too many African stars, this Zimbabwean singer and nimble guitarist is often presented as a purveyor of ''words of wisdom,'' to quote the liner notes to his last album, ''Nhava'' (Heads Up). Luckily, his music isn't nearly so heavy-handed: expect a gorgeous night of gentle but restless polyrhythmic grooves. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $25 in advance, $28 at the door. (Sanneh)

RANCID (Tonight through Sunday) This long-running group of studious Clash revivalists announced two years ago that it was going on hiatus, but that didn't last long. Rancid is said to be working on a new album and plays the last three shows of a four-night engagement at B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, promising that no two nights on its tour will be the same. At 8 p.m., with Theo and the Skyscrapers (tonight); Big D and the Kids Table, and the Lordz (tomorrow); and Danny Diablo and the Slanderin (Sunday). 243 West 42nd Street, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; sold out. (Sisario)

SMOKING POPES (Tonight) This Chicago band played some of the smartest and most tuneful power-pop of the 90's; one album reached back to Patsy Cline and Rodgers and Hart. The group broke up in 1998 after a familiar record-company drama, but has been touring occasionally since its reunion last year. With Criteria and the Picture. At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario)

UNCLE MONK (Tonight and tomorrow) There is life after the Ramones, but who knew that its sound would be bluegrass? Tom Erdelyi, better known as Tommy Ramone, the band's first drummer (and only surviving original member), plays a mean mandolin in this acoustic duo, singing tautly written numbers -- much like Ramones songs, but with tenderness -- about the comforts and subtle politics of home life. Tonight at 8, with Andy Mullen, John Arthur Martinez and the Flanks; Ace of Clubs, 9 Great Jones Street, East Village, (212) 677-6924, aceofclubsnyc.com; $8. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., with the M Shanghai String Band and Hogzilla, Freddy's Back Room, 485 Dean Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 622-7035, freddysbackroom.com; no cover. (Sisario)

WALKMEN, DR. DOG, HUMAN TELEVISION, ELVIS PERKINS (Sunday) There's a varied lineup at this weekend's pool party at McCarren Park. The Walkmen play exquisitely articulated songs of exhaustion and disaffection, with Hamilton Leithauser's weary whine surrounded by an echoey wash of guitar and keyboards. Dr. Dog, from Philadelphia, takes a jam-band approach to high-energy rhapsodies that recall ''Abbey Road''-era Beatles. Human Television, also from Philadelphia, and Elvis Perkins, from Rhode Island, specialize in tuneful low-fi pop. At 3 p.m., Lorimer Street, between Driggs Avenue and Bayard Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn; thepoolparties.com; free. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

GERI ALLEN TRIO (Tonight through Sunday) ''Timeless Portraits and Dreams'' (Telarc), a soulfully earnest new album by the pianist Geri Allen, includes a number of different instrumental settings, including one with a vocal chorus. Ms. Allen is appearing in a basic but eminently rewarding lineup, with her longtime associate Darryl Hall on bass and the venerable Jimmy Cobb on drums. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25 tonight and tomorrow, $20 Sunday, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)

BALLIN' THE JACK (Tonight) The clarinetist and saxophonist Matt Darriau heads this midsize ensemble, which spikes its swing-era repertory with madcap irreverence. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

RICHIE BEIRACH TRIO (Wednesday and Thursday) Richie Beirach is an introspective pianist with a style often suggestive of Bill Evans. He has worked closely not only with the bassist George Mraz and the drummer Billy Hart, who form his rhythm section here, but also with the violinist Gregor Huebner, who joins as a special guest. Through Sept. 2 at 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BLOSSOM (Tuesday) The trumpeter and cornetist Ron Miles leads this supple ensemble, comprising fellow musicians from the Denver area: Erik Deutsch on keyboards, Roger Green on guitar and Glenn Taylor on pedal-steel guitar. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JOHN BLUM QUARTET (Tuesday) Experimental energies of the high-voltage variety, from an ensemble consisting of Mr. Blum on piano, Jemeel Moondoc on saxophones, William Parker on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

LARRY CORYELL, VICTOR BAILEY AND LENNY WHITE (Tuesday and Wednesday) This all-star fusion trio's forthcoming second album, ''Traffic'' (Chesky), adheres to a potent formula: equal parts electric guitar heroism, courtesy of Mr. Coryell; electric bass acrobatics, via Mr. Bailey; and percussive intensity, from Mr. White. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

AL FOSTER QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Al Foster's drumming is often a fluttering proposition, but he has also proved his authority with hard-driving funk. His quartet consists of smart younger players: the saxophonist Eli Degibri, the pianist Kevin Hays and the bassist Doug Weiss. Through Sept. 3. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

EDDIE GOMEZ AND MARK KRAMER WITH GENE JACKSON (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Gomez, a proficient bassist, and Mr. Kramer, an understated pianist, recently released an album tellingly titled ''Art of the Heart'' (Art of Life). They are reprising their songbook romanticism here, adding the welcome kick of Mr. Jackson on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow. Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

WINARD HARPER SEXTET (Tuesday and Wednesday) Mr. Harper is an appealingly scrappy drummer, and he has a new album, ''Make It Happen'' (Piadrum), which infuses hard bop with elements of African and Caribbean rhythm. As on the album, he works here with a front line of Josh Evans on trumpet and Stacy Dillard on tenor saxophone. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)

ROY HAYNES FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH BAND (Tonight through Sunday) The redoubtable drummer Roy Haynes is an octogenarian, though you'd never guess it by the freshness and ferocity of his playing. His working quartet features musicians many years his junior: the alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, the pianist Martin Bejerano and the bassist David Wong. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

OLIVER LAKE ORGAN TRIO WITH DJ JAHI SUNDANCE (Tomorrow) Mr. Lake is an alto saxophonist with a piercing sound and an adventurous style. Those traits should come in handy on this engagement with Jared Gold on Hammond B-3 organ, Chris Dave on drums and Jahi Sundance on turntables. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

ADAM LEVY'S NICE PLACE TO VISIT (Tomorrow) Mr. Levy, the lead guitarist with Norah Jones's Handsome Band, draws on a broader dynamic range in this confab with the violinist Jenny Scheinman, the clarinetist and saxophonist Doug Wieselman, the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Simon Lott. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

MALABY/SANCHEZ/RAINEY (Wednesday) A collective trio that treads a middle ground between lyricism and abstraction, with Tony Malaby on saxophones, Angelica Sanchez on piano and Tom Rainey on drums. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

TANIA MARIA (Tonight through Sunday) On her album ''Intimidade,'' recently released on Blue Note, Tania Maria applies her conversational vocals and piano playing to a brand of acoustic pop well seasoned by the sound of her native Brazil. She enacts the same fusion here, with a group consisting of the bassist Sergio Brandao and the percussionists Rick Sebastian and Mestre Carneiro. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

FRANK MORGAN AND RONNIE MATTHEWS (Tonight) Now in his 70's, the alto saxophonist Frank Morgan is one of the last survivors of the bebop era (and in his case, ''survivor'' is truly the appropriate term). Performing in duo with the pianist Ronnie Mathews, he celebrates the release of his latest album, the second one, with the title ''Reflections'' (HighNote). At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* CHARLIE PARKER JAZZ FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) Now in its 14th season, and its fourth under the aegis of the City Parks Foundation, the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival honors its namesake with a pair of free outdoor concerts. Tomorrow's show, in Harlem, consists of ensembles led by the drummer Chico Hamilton and the saxophonists George Coleman, Sonny Fortune and Greg Osby. Sunday's concert is in the East Village; along with Mr. Hamilton, it features the saxophonist David Sanchez, the pianist Joanne Brackeen and the percussionist Ray Mantilla. Tomorrow at 3 p.m. at Marcus Garvey Park, between Fifth and Madison Avenues, from 120th to 124th Streets, Harlem; Sunday at 3 p.m. at Tompkins Square Park, between Avenues A and B, from 7th Street to 10th Street, East Village, summerstage.org; free. (Chinen)

OSCAR PETERSON QUARTET (Tonight through Sunday) At 81, Oscar Peterson still plays the piano with a buoyant sense of swing, though considerably less virtuosity than in his popular prime. He plays few club engagements these days, but when he does he usually has a solid band like this one, with Ulf Wakenius on guitar, David Young on bass and Alvin Queen on drums. At 8 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $75, $100 for the first two rows, with a $10 minimum. All shows are sold out. (Chinen)

PETE ROBBINS AND CENTRIC (Thursday) ''Waits and Measures'' (Playscape), a new album by the alto saxophonist Pete Robbins, is an intimate jazz-rock hybrid complete with Fender Rhodes piano and artfully fuzzed-out electric guitar. Mr. Robbins will mark the album's release with the saxophonist Sam Sadigursky, the guitarists Mike Gamble and Ryan Blotnick, the keyboardist Eliot Cardinaux, the bassist Rob Jost and the drummer Take Toriyama. At 9 and 10 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; no cover. (Chinen)

ADAM ROGERS QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Adam Rogers is a guitarist whose most recent album, ''Apparitions'' (Criss Cross), features serpentine melodic lines and a rock-informed rhythmic thrust. Among the musicians pursuing a similar sound here are Chris Potter on saxophones, Scott Colley on bass and Clarence Penn on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)

* SONNY ROLLINS (Sunday) This free Lincoln Center Out of Doors concert by the tenor saxophone giant Sonny Rollins has become a cherished ritual for jazz fans, and for good reason. It's often Mr. Rollins's only New York City appearance all year, and he always packs it with his trademarks: lengthy, exploratory solos; songbook obscurities and not-quite-standards; and at least one unsinkable calypso. At 8 p.m., Damrosch Park, 62nd Street near Amsterdam Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 875-5766, lincolncenter.org; free. (Chinen)

JIM ROTONDI QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Like the concurrent Charlie Parker Jazz Festival, this two-night club gig, led by the trumpeter Jim Rotondi, pays homage to that bebop legend. Vincent Herring slips into Parker's alto saxophone chair, with a fine rhythm section consisting of David Hazeltine on piano, Peter Washington on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

* SPIRIT OF RAHSAAN ROLAND KIRK (Tuesday through Thursday) Rahsaan Roland Kirk, the brilliantly robust saxophonist, receives two sincere tributes at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola next week. The first involves a seven-piece band led by the trombonist Steve Turre, a torch-bearing Kirk alumnus, with ranks that include the saxophonists Billy Harper and Vincent Herring. The second tribute, Bright Moments, is a project of the baritone saxophonist Claire Daly; it follows Mr. Turre's group each night with an after-hours set. Through Sept. 3 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with the Bright Moments set at 11 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, $10 for after-hours sets, with a $10 minimum at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JEREMY STEIG QUARTET (Thursday) Mr. Steig, an accomplished flutist with a jazz-rock pedigree, leads a group featuring a frequent collaborator, the guitarist Vic Juris. At 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

HELEN SUNG TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow) The pianist Helen Sung reconvenes the solid rhythm section from her recent album, ''Helenistique'' (Fresh Sound New Talent): Richie Goods on bass and Lewis Nash on drums. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

WILL VINSON QUINTET (Sunday) This British alto saxophonist pursues a contemporary strain of postbop, with a handful of fellow searchers: the guitarists Adam Rogers and Lage Lund, the bassist Orlando Le Fleming and the drummer Ari Hoenig. At 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

DAVID WEISS AND POINT OF DEPARTURE QUINTet (Wednesday) An assertive trumpeter and accomplished arranger, Mr. Weiss leads an ensemble well stocked with talent: J. D. Allen on tenor saxophone, Nir Felder on guitar, Luques Curtis on bass and Kendrick Scott on drums. At 10 p.m., Fat Cat, 75 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $15. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

GLIMMERGLASS OPERA (Tonight through Tuesday) Opera can be formal or pure fluff, and this season's program at Glimmerglass, now in its final week, nearly balances the two. On the weightier side is Janacek's dark ''Jenufa'' (tomorrow and Tuesday at 1:30 p.m.) or the complex, smart music of Steven Hartke's new Maupassant-based opera ''The Greater Good'' (tonight at 8, Monday at 1:30 p.m.). Lighter fare is represented by ''The Barber of Seville'' (tomorrow night at 8) and ''The Pirates of Penzance'' (Sunday at 1:30 p.m.). Route 80, north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607) 547-2255, glimmerglass.org; $69 to $117 tonight through Sunday; $41 to $104 on Monday and Tuesday. (Anne Midgette)

MET IN THE PARKS (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Wednesday) New York City picnickers have a busy schedule in summer. The New York Philharmonic entertained thousands last month, and now it's the Metropolitan Opera's turn. The annual ''Met in the Parks'' series is celebrating its 40th anniversary with two popular favorites, ''Rigoletto'' and ''La Traviata.'' The Met's park swoop began last week in Central Park and continues tonight with ''La Traviata'' in Marine Park, Brooklyn, followed by ''Rigoletto'' tomorrow in Orchard Park in the Bronx, ''Traviata'' on Tuesday in the Richmond County Ball Park in Staten Island and ''Rigoletto'' on Wednesday in Cunningham Park in Queens. Casts vary for each performance, but the lineup for tonight's ''Traviata'' features Maureen O'Flynn as Violetta, while tomorrow's ''Rigoletto'' has Norah Amsellem as Gilda, Nancy Fabiola Herrera as Maddalena, Jose Luis Duval as the Duke of Mantua and Mark Delavan as Rigoletto. On Tuesday Hei-Kyung Hong steps in as Violetta and on Wednesday Olga Makarina sings Gilda. At 8 p.m., (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; free. (Vivien Schweitzer)

NEW YORK GRAND OPERA (Tonight) No stranger to Central Park either, this company takes to the outdoors with a staged performance of Puccini's ''Suor Angelica'' and Leoncavallo's ''Pagliacci.'' Vincent La Selva, the founder and artistic director, conducts the New York Grand Opera Orchestra and Chorus in Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park. The cast includes Maria Knapik in the title role of ''Suor Angelica'' and as Nedda in ''Pagliacci.'' At 7:30, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 245-8837, newyorkgrandopera.org; free. (Schweitzer)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) This converted coffee barge is one of the most intimate chamber music halls in the city, and it offers ample musical variety this week. Tonight, Vadim Rubinskiy will give a piano recital that includes his own works (among them ''A Musical Portrait of Franz Liszt'') as well as Busoni's arrangement of Bach organ preludes, and Liszt's fantasies on themes from Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro'' and Verdi's ''Rigoletto.'' Tomorrow and Sunday, Daredjan Baya Kakouberi, a pianist; Ilya Kaler, a violinist; and Eugene Osadchy, a cellist; play trios by Mozart, Smetana and Dvorak. And on Thursday another trio -- Olga Vinokur, pianist; Mark Peskanov, violinist; and Edward Arron, cellist -- perform a new work by Behzad Ranjbaran, commissioned by Bargemusic, as well as the Brahms Trio No. 3 and the Tchaikovsky Trio (Op. 50). Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight and Thursday. (Allan Kozinn)

MAVERICK CONCERTS (Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock holds performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. On Sunday, the pianist Ursula Oppens joins the Rossetti String Quartet in Shostakovich's Piano Quintet in G minor, on a program that also includes Mozart's String Quartet in D (K. 499) and Piazzolla's ''Tango Ballet.'' At 3 p.m., Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org; $20. (Kozinn)

MOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow) Ending a Mozart festival in a major Mozart anniversary year with a program of the composer's last three symphonies may seem a predictable idea. But in just a few seasons as music director of Mostly Mozart, the conductor Louis Langree, working closely with the artistic director, Jane S. Moss, has re-energized this festival, which had grown stodgy until Mr. Langree took over in late 2002. He has given audiences so many fresh and unusual programs and so inspired the festival orchestra that he has earned the right to end the festival with a program offering the familiar Symphonies Nos. 39, 40 and 41 (''Jupiter''). Expect the performances, like most of Mr. Langree's work, to be lithe, bracing and free of interpretive agenda. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $38 to $60. (Anthony Tommasini)

TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Sunday) The final weekend's hottest concert may well be its first. Tonight's program features the Venezuelan rising star conductor Gustavo Dudamel (if you haven't heard of him yet, you will) leading Imogen Cooper in Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1, with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and another rising star, the young mezzo-soprano Isabel Leonard, in Falla's ''Three-Cornered Hat.'' Tomorrow's concert may be the leading sentimental favorite. It pairs the Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 2 (with Emanuel Ax) and Bruckner's beloved Seventh Symphony in the capable and oft-underrated hands of Herbert Blomstedt. And the end? All Beethoven, as Rafael Fruhbeck de Burgos on Sunday leads Yefim Bronfman in the Piano Concerto No. 4, and the orchestra in the Symphony No. 7. Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org; $8.50 to $87. (Midgette)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

RONALD K. BROWN/EVIDENCE DANCE COMPANY (Tomorrow) In ''On Our Toes in the Hamptons,'' an open-air fund-raising gala for the company that will be in a sculpture park, Mr. Brown's dancers will perform a new work, ''Truth Don Die.'' They will also perform ''Grace,'' a signature work by Mr. Brown embodying his distinctive way of mixing Afro-Caribbean and modern dance to create a piece that vibrates with humanity and, yes, grace. Tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. (The event begins with a preperformance party at 4 p.m.) Nova's Ark Project, 60 Millstone Road, Bridgehampton, (718) 230-4633, evidencedance.com; $500 to $20,000. (Jennifer Dunning)

CITY PARKS DANCE (Tomorrow and Sunday) This ingenious outdoor series, which includes preperformance dance instruction for the audience, continues with two events in Queens this weekend. Rennie Harris/Puremovement, which performs a stylish blend of hip-hop and modern dance, shares the first program tomorrow with the Ballet Hispanico Student Ensemble, which mixes ballet, modern and Latin dance. On Sunday comes traditional Senegalese dance performed by Sing Sing Rhythms, featuring the master drummer Cheikh Tairou M'Baye and his family, who will teach the day's class. Next taking the floor will be Batoto Yetu, an exuberant children's company that performs dance and music drawn from African traditions. Tomorrow and Sunday at 3 p.m., Queensbridge Park, 41st Avenue and Vernon Boulevard, Queens, (212) 360-8290, cityparksfoundation.org. (Dunning)

DOWNTOWN DANCE FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) This outdoor festival closes its 25th-anniversary season with two shows incorporating dance styles from various continents. Tomorrow, ''Ocean of Light'' pays homage to the victims of Hurricane Katrina and the Asian tsunami in a piece that combines classical with contemporary South Asian dance and music. Also performing will be Battery Dance Company in a program that includes Indian Kathak, Japanese traditional dance mixed with hip-hop, ballet and modern dance. On Sunday seven companies, including the Peridance Ensemble, Dzul Dance and Slamfest, will perform in a closing show that ranges from the tango to Filipino folk dancing. Tomorrow and Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m., Great Lawn at Battery Park, enter at State Street, Lower Manhattan, batterydance.org; free. (Dunning)

SITELINES: ELLIS WOOD DANCE (Monday through Wednesday) In the last installment of this festival, 20 women will move across exterior balconies of an ornate old downtown building in Ms. Wood's new ''Fire on Wall Street,'' which explores the element of fire with what the choreographer describes as sensual abandon. Position those safety nets. Monday through Wednesday at noon and 12:30 p.m., Cipriani, 55 Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, lmcc.net; free. (Dunning)

* JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Today through Sunday) This is the last weekend for this bucolic Berkshires summer festival. Mark Morris's busy Dance Group is at the larger Ted Shawn Theater through the weekend, with an extra show added for this afternoon. In the smaller Doris Duke Studio Theater is Rubberbandance Group, which comes from Montreal and combines hip-hop with contemporary ballet, also with an extra Friday matinee. Morris today at 3 and 8 p.m., tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Shawn Theater, $58. Rubberbandance today at 2 and 8:15 p.m., tomorrow at 2:15 and 8:15 p.m., Sunday at 5 p.m., Duke Theater, $24. Ten percent off all tickets for students, seniors 65+ and children. Details of the weekend's free performances and exhibitions are at jacobspillow.org. Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745. (John Rockwell)

GARTH FAGAN DANCE (Tonight and tomorrow) Garth Fagan's awards, which include an Olivier and a Tony, for his choreography for ''The Lion King,'' and more Bessies than you can count, are as wide-ranging as his technique, which mixes Afro-Caribbean, ballet and modern dance. The company celebrates its 35th-anniversary season with performances at Lincoln Center Out of Doors. At 8 p.m., Damrosch Park Bandshell, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5766 or lincolncenter.org; free. (Erika Kinetz)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* American Folk Art Museum: 'WHITE ON WHITE (AND A LITTLE GRAY),' through Sept. 17. The importance of neo-Classicism to early American architecture, silver and fine furniture is not exactly news. This small, beautiful show follows its spread into more personal corners of visual culture: often exquisite, strikingly dimensional white-work bedcovers; luminously grisaille, sometimes wacky marble-dust drawings; and print-work embroidery mourning pictures. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Graffiti,' through Sept. 3. Twenty paintings on canvas from the early 1980's by formerly famous subway graffiti artists who went by names like Crash, Daze and Lady Pink. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FREDERIC CHURCH, WINSLOW HOMER AND THOMAS MORAN: TOURISM AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through Oct. 22. It turns out that the Cooper-Hewitt owns thousands of rarely seen paintings, prints and sketches by Church, Homer and Moran. Studies of the countryside, mostly, they revere unspoiled nature and record tourism, a booming industry in 19th-century America. Here they're combined with antique postcards, old Baedeker's guides, stereoscopic photographs, playing cards with pictures of Yellowstone on them and souvenir platters, all to trace the nation's transformation from primeval wilderness to Catskills resort. The show is extremely entertaining. And Church's oil sketches alone are worth the price of admission: exquisite, plainspoken Emersonian love poems to New York and New England. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 or ndm.si.edu. (Michael Kimmelman)

* Dahesh Museum of Art: 'NAPOLEON ON THE NILE: SOLDIERS, ARTISTS AND THE REDISCOVERY OF EGYPT,' through Dec. 31. Napoleon's invasion of Egypt was a military disaster, but the squadron of scholars and scientists that went with him lay the foundation for Egyptology and Egyptomania, gave Orientalism a big boost and was commemorated by the 1,000 engravings of the 23-volume ''Description de l'Egypte.'' Examples of the book's prints form the backbone of this engrossing if somewhat strange and sometimes piecemeal show, which includes Orientalist paintings and a cache of fascinating ephemera. 580 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212) 759-0606, daheshmuseum.org. (Smith)

* Frick Collection : 'Jean-Etienne Liotard (1702-1789): Swiss MasteR,' through Sept. 17. Liotard is something of a specialty item now, but he was widely known in the Enlightenment Europe of his day. And even then he was seen as a maverick, a figure of contradictions. He was a stone-cold realist in an age of rococo frills. In a great age of oil painting, he favored pastel. He had ultrafancy sitters for his portraits, including Marie Antoinette. But his most vivid likenesses are of himself and his family. The Frick's perfectly proportioned sweetheart of a solo show is the artist's first in North America. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Holland Cotter)

Guild Hall Museum: 'Elizabeth Peyton,' through Oct. 22. Most of the 43 works in this exhibition portray beautiful people, some famous, some less so. Most immediately engaging is the tension between the painterly abstraction and the human subject matter. Images are realized in drippy swatches, squiggly lines and feathery dabs, and colors range from incandescent reds and oranges to pale lavenders and grays to dark velvety browns, blacks and purples. Yet for all that expressionistic action, likenesses are exacting. People like Nicole Kidman and Queen Elizabeth are rendered with seemingly effortless precision. Romantic feeling connects the form and content in Ms. Peyton's work. A kind of erotic yearning animates how she sees her subjects and how she makes her pictures. To paint, Ms. Peyton's works imply, is to be in love: to be in love with certain people and with painting itself. 158 Main Street, East Hampton, N.Y., (631) 324-0806. (Johnson)

SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ZAHA HADID: THIRTY YEARS IN ARCHITECTURE,' through Oct. 25. This exhibition, Ms. Hadid's first major retrospective in the United States, gives New Yorkers a chance to see what they've been missing. The show, in the Guggenheim's rotunda, spirals through Ms. Hadid's career, from her early enchantment with Soviet Constructivism to the sensuous and fluid cityscapes of her more recent commissions. It illuminates her capacity for bridging different worlds: traditional perspective drawing and slick computer-generated imagery; the era of utopian manifestoes and the ambiguous values of the information age. (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

Katonah Museum of Art: 'Andromeda Hotel, the Art of Joseph Cornell,' through Sept. 17. Although Cornell never left the United States, he translated his dreams of faraway places into delicate, sometimes overly precious works that have a sense of longing. In this show the white-painted, weathered interior of a box titled ''Grand Hotel -- Hotel Taglioni'' (1954) contains incongruous elements of collage, among them an old ad for a French bakery topped by a color cutout of the ballerina Marie Taglioni, an object of the artist's adoration. Even simpler, but equally dreamy, is another weathered box, ''Hotel de l'Etoile'' (1950), which holds only a long, vertical image of a deep blue sky rife with thousands of tiny pinpoints of light. One of the show's most striking images is a surreal photograph of Cornell by Lee Miller in which he is seen gazing upward, entranced, his shoulder adorned with a miniature sailboat (around 1935). Route 22 at Jay Street, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-9555, katonahmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck)

* METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ANGLOMANIA: TRADITION AND TRANSGRESSION IN BRITISH FASHION,' through Sept. 4. Ranging from early-18th-century gowns to next season's evening wear, this show crowds 65 extravagantly clad mannequins into the Met's normally serene English period rooms, trying to connect the sartorial innovations of the English dandy, the aggressive tribal attire of punk and the deconstructive impulses of today's British fashion stars. A certain confusion, both intellectual and visual, reigns, but there is more than enough to look at. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* Met: 'RAPHAEL AT THE METROPOLITAN: THE COLONNA ALTARPIECE,' through Sept. 4 This exhilarating show reunites the central panel and lunette of Raphael's Colonna Altarpiece (owned by the Met) with all five panels of the predella. Additional works by Raphael, Perugino, Fra Bartolommeo and Leonardo place the work in context and sharpen the understanding of Raphael's budding genius. Further sharpness comes from the placement of all parts of the altarpiece at eye level, creating a viewing intensity that more than compensates for the fact that they have not been reassembled. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

MET: 'On Photography: A Tribute to Susan Sontag,' through Sept. 4. How to honor the memory of a multifarious figure like Susan Sontag? The Metropolitan Museum's solution -- a small, grave, beautiful photography show -- is an apt one, with pictures by many of the artists she wrote about, from Diane Arbus to Walker Evans, a portrait of one of her early heroes, Oscar Wilde, and two of Sontag herself. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Morgan Library & Museum: CELEBRATING REMBRANDT: ETCHINGS FROM THE MORGAN, through Oct. 1. On the occasion of the opening of its newly rethought home, the Morgan Library has mounted a show of 50 of its greatest Rembrandt etchings. The selection demonstrates the range of the master's subjects (from the heights of biblical tragedy to the casually erotic) and also his amazingly expressive technique. It serves as reminder that Rembrandt's prints represent genius of the plainest, most accessible sort: sustaining classics that encompass the earthy and the exalted and offer fresh meanings with each encounter. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, www.themorgan.org. (Smith)

Museum of Arts AND Design: 'THE EAMES LOUNGE CHAIR: AN ICON OF MODERN DESIGN,' through Sept. 3. Celebrating the 50th anniversary of a chair whose combination of declarative modernist structure and sheer creature comfort was both innovative and a bit alien, this exhibition is a successful design object in its own right. It pays homage with drawings, advertising ephemera, precursors, vintage television clips, a wonderful documentary and three versions of the chair itself, enshrined, exploded and usable. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org. (Smith)

* MUseum of modern art: 'ARTIST'S CHOICE: Herzog & DE MEURON, PERCEPTION RESTRAINED,' through Sept. 25. In an unusually accessible bit of institutional critique, the architects who failed to win the commission to design the new Museum of Modern Art bite the hand that didn't feed them. They create a kind of deprivation chamber with a black gallery, where excerpts from American movies play on video screens on the ceiling and 110 works of art and design are crammed into enormous niches that are all but sealed from view. Perverse and cerebral, it may be the best one-liner you'll encounter this summer, and it makes some interesting points about the spectacle of the museum, the Modern included. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'DADA,' through Sept. 11. This is pretty much Dada's official survey (an oxymoron), and it makes nearly all 450 or so objects in it look elegant. That hat rack looks awfully stylish now. It's good to be reacquainted with a generation of artists who had no market to speak of and for whom society's corruption and exhaustion seemed golden opportunities to make themselves useful. Cynical and traumatized, the Dadaists were tireless young optimists at heart. They discovered a world full of wonders, and we are, on the whole, their beneficiaries. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

Museum of Modern Art: Douglas Gordon: 'Timeline,' through Sept 4. This selection of works by the artist known for appropriating and inventively manipulating Hollywood movies includes his projection of Alfred Hitchcock's ''Psycho,'' which runs so slowly that it takes 24 hours to complete, and a large-scale video installation that studies a circus elephant performing in an empty art gallery. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)

NEUE Galerie: Gustav Klimt: Five Paintings From the Collection of Ferdinand and Adele Bloch-Bauer, through Sept. 18. Klimt's 1907 gold portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer, lately acquired by the billionaire collector Ronald S. Lauder, reportedly for $135 million, is now aptly installed like a trophy head above the mantelpiece. She's half queen, half Las Vegas showgirl. A perfect New Yorker. She temporarily hangs with four other Klimts, including a second Adele, painted in 1912: a slender, sinuous Coke-bottle-shaped figure, more chaste than carnal. A painting of a birch forest is an archetypal Klimt mix of uncanny naturalism and geometric abstraction. Two other landscapes, of an apple tree and an unfinished jigsaw-puzzle view of houses on the shore of the Attersee, raise the question: Had Klimt not died at 55 in 1918, would he have ended up a pure abstractionist like Mondrian? 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Kimmelman)

New York Botanical Garden: Chihuly at the New York Botanical Garden, through Oct. 29. Dale Chihuly, the world's most famous contemporary glass artist, has created ambitious installations of his large-scale, technically virtuosic and materially extravagant works inside the spectacular Haupt Conservatory and outside in reflecting pools and smaller gardens. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. (Johnson)

* New-York Historical Society: Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery, through Jan. 7. Slavery, some would say, didn't really end in the United States until the civil rights legislation of the 1960's. That was a full century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints. They are among the high points of this large, powerful, subtle group show, the second of three exhibitions on American slavery organized by the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'BEST OF FRIENDS: BUCKMINSTER FULLER AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through Oct. 15. Great, lasting friendships are rare, but friendships that enlarge the spirit through ideas, ideals and new insights are in a class by themselves. Over a stretch of more than 50 years the sculptor Isamu Noguchi and the visionary designer R. Buckminster Fuller enjoyed such a friendship, which led to aesthetic and practical achievements that left their mark. The course of their varied collaborations is traced in this exhibition, which includes models, sculptures, drawings, photographs and films. The museum entrance is at 9-01 33rd Road, between Vernon Boulevard and 10th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Glueck)

P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Into Me/Out of Me,' through Sept. 25. Often with repulsive immediacy and occasionally with wit and subtlety, works by more than 130 artists in this ambitious exhibition explore the body and all its possible experiences along the pleasure-pain continuum. P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)

* Rubin Museum of Art : 'What is it? HimalAyan Art' This museum is an oasis of calm in the city; you can feel your tension dissolve the minute you walk in the door. At the same time, the place jumps with activities, including lectures, films and exhibitions, many devoted to aspects of Himalayan culture. And for a basic guide to the art of Tibet and Nepal, you will do no better than to take a slow walk through this show, which, using an array of gorgeous objects, distills knotty visual and spiritual systems into a soothing but stimulating entry-level form. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)

Wadsworth Atheneum: 'American Splendor: Hudson River School Masterworks From the Wadsworth Atheneum,' through Dec. 31. Back from a two-and-a-half-year tour at six other American museums, the Wadsworth's formidable collection of 19th-century Hudson River School paintings is on display in this homecoming show. Not every Hudson River collection can boast 11 works by Frederic Edwin Church, 13 by Thomas Cole and 5 by Albert Bierstadt,, a leading painter of the American West, along with powerful examples by other artists of the school. They are among the more than 60 paintings on display here. It's rare that you see these ultrafamiliar paintings in such concentration; their combined presence gives the show a synergistic sparkle and energy that you don't get when you see them in smaller groupings. 600 Main Street, Hartford, (860) 278-2670, www.wadsworthatheneum.org. (Glueck)

* The Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Full House: Views of the Whitney's Collection at 75,' through Sept. 3. The Whitney celebrates a significant birthday this summer with an attic-to-basement display of hundreds of pieces of art from its permanent collection. There are terrific things, arranged mostly by loose theme rather than date. And as an ensemble, they deliver an impressionistic story, through art, of a staggeringly contradictory American 20th-century culture, diverse and narrow-souled, with a devotion to the idea of power so ingrained as to make conflict inevitable and chronic. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

* Sarah Sze: 'Corner Plot' The upper corner of an apartment building protrudes from the Doris C. Freedman Plaza's pavement as if the whole edifice had toppled and sunk into the ground. Through the window's of Ms. Sze's magical outdoor sculpture you can see a complicated interior that looks as if it were created by a mad architect. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 980-4575, through Oct. 22. (Johnson)

YES BRUCE NAUMAN There has never been much in the way of ''No'' to the influential Post-Minimalist and sculptor-of-all-trades Bruce Nauman. But this astutely structured, if male-dominated, exhibition considers his importance anew, especially his use of language, neon and the body, and his visceral sense of form. The show's title is taken from a 1989 work by Jessica Diamond that is included, along with pertinent efforts by Paul McCarthy, Charles Ray, Glenn Ligon, Jason Rhoades, Peter Coffin, Diana Thater, John Bock and, of course, Mr. Nauman himself. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677, zwirnerandwirth.com, through Sept. 9. (The gallery will be closed Aug. 21 through Aug. 25.) (Smith)

Galleries: Chelsea

* GALERIE DANIEL BUCHHOLZ AT METRO PICTURES This well-known Cologne gallery presents a surprisingly sweeping view of current art that includes Americans and Europeans and, despite its Conceptual slant, an impressive range of mediums and sensibilities. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com, through Sept. 16. (Smith)

HANS RICHTER (1888-1976), DADA; ART AND ANTI-ART This daunting yet partial survey is clogged with late paintings and reliefs that are for the most part elegant pastiches of Constructivism, Cubism and Abstract Expressionism. But it should be seen for the four short films from the 1920's, in which Richter's formalist and Dada sides balance beautifully, with elegantly Surrealist results. This is especially the case in the luminous ''Ghosts Before Breakfast,'' from 1927, which explores most of film's structural possibilities and segues briskly between abstraction and Hollywood narrative while three skittering bowler hats provide continuity. Maya Stendhal Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 366-1549, through Sept. 16. (Smith)

'WAR ON 45/MY MIRRORS ARE PAINTED BLACK (FOR YOU)' The latest word from the boys in black is a show of six artists organized by the head boy, Banks Violette. The stark glamour of it cannot be denied, but it looks too much like graphic design. Bortolami Dayan, 510 West 25th Street, (212) 727-2050, bortolamidayan.com, through Sept. 2. (Smith)

* JAMES J. WILLIAMS III: 'BY REQUEST, MY EPITAPH' Despite debts to artists like Jack Pierson, Karen Kilimnik, Richard Prince and Nan Goldin, this Haversham-ish environment and solo debut exude a promising fusion of modesty and narcissism. Its deep teal walls display scores of Polaroids, drawings, collages, notebooks and thrift-shop-worthy paintings, along with many of the artist's well-worn belongings. An illusion of stylish, if impoverished, full disclosure results. Self-conscious bohemianism teeters between nostalgia and irony, and art emerges as an incessant if nonchalant activity at the center of an eked-out existence. Envoy, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 242-7524, envoygallery.com, through Sept. 9. (Smith)

'Zoo Story' A clay gorilla by Daisy Youngblood, a bronze she-wolf by Kiki Smith, a flock of concrete sheep by Francoise-Xavier Lalanne and works about animals by more than 20 other artists, including John Baldessari, Katharina Fritsch, Ross Bleckner and Rebecca Horn, turn the first floor of this sleek, three-story private museum into a diverting menagerie. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-0727, through Oct. 16. (Johnson)

Last Chance

Bruce Museum: 'Best in Show: Dogs in Art From the Renaissance to the Present,' This show is a dog lover's picnic, with paintings that celebrate canis lupus familiaris and its wayward ways. 1 Museum Drive, Greenwich, Conn.; (203) 869-0376, closes Sunday. (Glueck)

'Garden Improvement' A mobile, solar-powered ornamental fountain by Charles Goldman; a collection of diminutive Jewel Orchids in silicon rubber planters by Paula Hayes; and a parody of a low-budget history museum exhibit by Jimbo Blachly and Lytle Shaw are among the works in an indoor-outdoor show about relations between nature and culture. Wave Hill, 249th Street and Independence Avenue (front gate), (718) 549-3200, closes Sunday. (Johnson)

* INternational Center of Photography: 'atta kim: On Air,' The South Korean artist Atta Kim's best-known body of work is a series called ''The Museum Project'' (1995-2002), for which he photographed his human subjects -- families, nude couples, maimed war veterans -- locked inside plexiglass exhibition cases like specimens on display. The series eventually took a religious turn, with models posing as Buddhist deities. The pictures here, in his first major American solo show, continue this spiritual trajectory. Filmed using long exposure times, figures, landscapes and religious icons have been turned into apparitions. People, art and museums may last for a while, Mr. Kim seems to say, but all things eventually melt away. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org, closes Sunday. (Cotter)

* International Center of Photography: 'UNKNOWN WEEGEE,' . From the 1930's through the 50's, Weegee -- real name, Arthur Fellig (1899-1968) -- was one of the best-known news photographers in the country. He specialized in capturing the sensational side of urban life: crime, disaster, demimonde nightlife. Tirelessly invasive, he lived by night. For him, the city was a 24-hour emergency room, an amphetamine drip. This show of 95 pictures gives a good sense of his range and calls particular attention to his awareness of social problems related to class and race. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org, closes Sunday. (Cotter)

'Materiality' Inventive works made of all sorts of materials in this show include a stuffed leather-and-plywood tree by Carolyn Salas; a geometric landscape with a slowing-moving, wartlike kinetic element, covered in reflective Mylar, by Charlotte Becket; a neat display of more than 200 pieces of breakfast cereal by Tom Friedman; and a sumptuous stuffed object resembling a much-enlarged amoeba by Ernesto Neto. Kravets/Wehby, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 352-2238, kravetswehbygallery.com, closes today. (Johnson)

* met: 'GIRODET: ROMANTIC REBEL,' Hugely famous in the early 19th century, Girodet dropped down the memory chute. His ''Ossian Receiving the Ghosts of French Heroes,'' painted for Napoleon, is one of the most deranged pictures in art history. It's so unhinged that it's almost lovable, which is otherwise the last word to come to mind for an artist who, in his uptight, smarty-pants mode, could be a bore. But give the show a shot. It's sometimes brilliant, and Girodet's strangeness and fairly repellent character make him at least fascinating to contemplate and heroic in his immoderation. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org, closes Sunday. (Kimmelman)

* Howardena Pindell: 'In My Lifetime' Thirty years ago Howardena Pindell was well known for meditative, process-based abstract work, though her art has always had two aspects. In the 1970's and 80's it assumed and maintained an overtly political direction in large-scale pieces that combined abstraction, words and figures to deal with social and political issues, from AIDS and homelessness to the present war in Iraq. Both types are in this informal gallery retrospective, which makes clear how thoroughly they are based on -- and emerge from and are fueled and inflected by -- the individual experiences and memories of the artist herself. G. R. N'Namdi Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 316, (212) 929-6645, grnnamdi.com, closes Thursday. (Cotter)

'Small Wonders' Bucking the big-picture trend, this absorbing show presents 45 black-and-white photographs ranging from palm to postage-stamp size. They include classic portraits by Edward Weston and Berenice Abbott; Andre Kertesz's William-Blake-like image of a naked man walking into a field of tall grass; and Walter Auerbach's picture of Willem de Kooning's studio circa 1950. Robert Mann, 210 11th Avenue, (212) 989-7600, closes today. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Fernanda Torres, above, in ''House of Sand,'' which examines the lives of three generations of women in northern Brazil. Page 21. (Photo by Vantoen Pereira Jr./Sony Pictures Classics)
DANCE -- Ellis Wood Dance, far left, uses a downtown balcony as a stage in its performance of ''Fire on Wall Street.'' Page 23. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 ART -- ''Untitled (Andromeda Hotel)'' is part of an exhibition of Joseph Cornell's works at the Katonah Museum of Art. Page 23. (Photo by Katonah Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



473 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Weaving Blues Of Trying Times And Lost Dreams

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
LIFE and death dance cheek to cheek, like impatient lovers waltzing toward bed, in the fine new revival of August Wilson's ''Seven Guitars,'' which opened last night at the Peter Norton Space of the Signature Theater Company.
 For the characters in this rich, music-drenched drama, produced on Broadway in 1996, the thread of human existence is both bright and tenuous, liable to snap without warning at any moment. None of the seven African-Americans who share a neighborhood and shifting dreams of conquest in ''Seven Guitars,'' set in the Hill District of Pittsburgh in 1948, denies or runs from the fact of their mortality.
 ''Everybody got a time coming,'' one of them says. ''Nobody can't say they don't have a time coming.'' The play is packed with such observations, along with catalogs of the names of the dead, recollections of deathbed vigils, a spirited argument over whether Jesus was right to resurrect Lazarus, and gorgeous, physically detailed inventories of the pain of losing those you know. Fittingly, the play begins just after the funeral of its central character, a young jazz guitarist (played by Lance Reddick) who was murdered just as he approached the stardom he had always sought. 
 The scene sets off echoes that were absent when ''Seven Guitars'' was first performed. It has now been nearly a year since Wilson, one of the few great American playwrights of his generation, died at 60 of liver cancer. 
 ''Seven Guitars'' is the first of three Wilson productions from Signature's 15th anniversary season, plans for which had begun before he was known to be ill. So when ''Seven Guitars'' opens with a scene of mourning, built around the empty space left by a death, the moment feels like an overture to a stately, presumably somber wake. 
 The solemnity does not last long, or rather, it continues, but only as a whispered bass line in a song whose dominant strands blare, tickle, lilt and, above all, exhilarate. 
 Directed with the intimacy and warmth of a fraternal embrace by Ruben Santiago-Hudson -- and performed by seven ensemble members whose characters you come to know as if you had been seeing them every day for years -- this production could scarcely be bettered as a reminder of the life force that courses through every word Wilson wrote. 
 In the world Wilson created in his remarkable 10-play cycle about the African-American experience in the 20th century, living fully means knowing that death is always walking at your side. Mr. Santiago-Hudson appeared as an actor in (and won a Tony for) the original Broadway production of ''Seven Guitars,'' and he seems to feel the play's life-and-death rhythm as if it were his own heartbeat. 
 That rhythm is translated here into a natural flow, underscored by new music written by Bill Sims Jr. that makes this production an improvement on the Broadway version, which is saying something. Staged by Lloyd Richards, that earlier incarnation of ''Seven Guitars'' was excellent. But partly because of the scale of a Broadway house, it occasionally had a heavy, oracular air, with the play's mystical elements looming like luminous ghosts.
 In the current ''Seven Guitars'' everything feels organic. Richard Hoover's urban backyard, with its hopeful gardens and makeshift lawn furniture, has such depth of detail that I was surprised when I looked up during a night scene and didn't see real stars. Karen Perry's costumes and Jane Cox's lighting match that spirit of immediacy.
 And Mr. Santiago-Hudson and his cast take such a matter-of-fact approach to their material that even the play's resident mad prophet (always the most strained aspect of Wilson's work) becomes simply the loon next door instead of a fiery Elijah. Not that Mr. Santiago-Hudson in any way trivializes Wilson's ambitious exploration of one race's history, with the economic oppression of a people and the myths that keep it afloat.
 But those themes are all the stronger for being allowed to emerge, unforced, through an accumulation of quirks of character, snatches of song and reflections on daily existence in which losses -- of money, love and life -- are taken for granted. Even existential speechifying -- and there's a fair amount of that from the male characters, especially in the second act -- seems as natural a part of conversation as a discussion of the best way to cook collard greens.
 This in-the-moment sensibility, which gives equal weight to events and perceptions big and small, is especially appropriate to the plot of ''Seven Guitars,'' which is built less as a rushing narrative than an artful arrangement of relationships in conflict, almost any of which could abruptly explode or defuse.
 There is, first of all, Floyd Barton (Mr. Reddick), known as Schoolboy, freshly released from 90 days in a house of detention, who wants to jump-start both his temporarily abandoned recording career and his love affair with Vera (Roslyn Ruff). Floyd has plans to go to Chicago, and he wants Vera and his two friends and musical sidemen -- Canewell (Kevin T. Carroll) and Red Carter (Stephen McKinley Henderson) -- to go with him.
 The ensemble is completed by Louise (Brenda Pressley), Vera's chatty neighbor; Ruby (Cassandra Freeman), her mantrap of a niece; and Louise's tenant, Hedley (Charles Weldon), the oldest of the characters, and a Bible-quoting ranter with apocalyptic theories about the ascendancy of the black man.
 The marvel of ''Seven Guitars,'' which is always true of Wilson at his best, is how large a social portrait emerges from seeming small talk: from bickering, joking, gossiping and idle scheming. From such conversation emerges a sense of an entire economic and legal system, stacked unwinnably against the black man; a social structure in which home and relationships are rarely fixed; and a folklore of rhymes and superstitions and recipes that acquire another layer every time they are repeated.
 And of course there is music, which here assumes an ineffable strength that rivals that of death. ''One day you be walking along, and the music jump on you,'' Floyd says. ''It just grab hold of you and hang on.'' And so it does, in a spontaneous jam session that bubbles up among the men, or a saucy dance (in celebration of a victory by the boxer Joe Louis) in which bubbly sensuality turns ominous.
 This metabolic shift in mood -- of joy and geniality shading into violence -- is repeated throughout the production with subtle, skilled insistence. ''Seven Guitars'' is a mystery story, in that the identity of Floyd's killer is unknown until near the end. But unlike most conventional mysteries, this one makes the point that it's the culture that's the culprit. 
 Any of the characters -- or at least any of the men -- in ''Seven Guitars'' could have been the victim or the murderer.
 Every member of the ensemble has soaring moments, but no one ever rends the play's larger fabric by grandstanding. Floyd's charisma and his anger are all the more impressive for the quietness with which Mr. Reddick renders them. Ms. Ruff's extraordinary combination of serenity and intensity gives the production its center of sorrow and transcendence.
 It is to the credit of both Mr. Carroll and Mr. Santiago-Hudson that Mr. Carroll unconditionally claims for himself a role first portrayed by his director. Both he and Mr. Henderson, a Wilson veteran, are excellent. 
 Mr. Weldon's underplaying of Hedley, if ungainly at times, is a welcome relief from the usual barnstorming associated with such characters. Ms.Freeman is too pretty for her own good, which is just what her part requires here. And Ms. Pressley, as the garrulous Louise, presents a wonderfully entertaining case for gossip as living history.
 At one point Louise, alone on the stage, sits down and wonderingly recaps the day's event. ''They about to drive me crazy,'' she says. ''Who don't know where the other one is or went or ain't going or is going and this one's dead and that one's dying and who shot who and who sung what song.''
 That's about as good a summary as I can imagine of the plot of ''Seven Guitars.'' Wilson's very audacity in including such a speech shows that he knows how much more than plot ''Seven Guitars'' is. This play is life-size, which means it is big indeed.
 By the way, you can experience all this for only $15, the price for all seats in the Signature Theater Company's August Wilson season. Even the characters in ''Seven Guitars,'' who could talk for hours about the cost and value of groceries and guns, would have to admit that's one mighty good bargain. 

Seven Guitars

By August Wilson; directed by Ruben Santiago-Hudson; associate artist, Constanza Romero; original music and music direction by Bill Sims Jr.; sets by Richard Hoover; costumes by Karen Perry; lighting by Jane Cox; sound by Darron L. West; fight director, Rick Sordelet; choreography by Ken Roberson; production stage manager, John M. Atherlay; associate artistic director, Beth Whitaker; production manager, Chris Moses. Presented by the Signature Theater Company, James Houghton, founding artistic director, and Kathryn M. Lipuma, executive director; at the Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 244-7529. Through Sept. 23. Running time: 2 hours, 45 minutes.

WITH: Kevin T. Carroll (Canewell), Cassandra Freeman (Ruby), Stephen McKinley Henderson (Red Carter), Brenda Pressley (Louise), Lance Reddick (Floyd Barton), Roslyn Ruff (Vera) and Charles Weldon (Hedley).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lance Reddick and Cassandra Freeman star in August Wilson's ''Seven Guitars,'' directed by Ruben Santiago-Hudson. It is the first of three Wilson plays from the Signature Theater Company's 15th anniversary season. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Charles Weldon as Hedley, the elder character in ''Seven Guitars.''
 Waiting for their big break: from left, Lance Reddick, Kevin T. Carroll and Stephen McKinley Henderson. (Photographs by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); WRITERS (64%); LIVER DISEASE (50%); CANCER (50%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Signature Theater Co

PERSON: Ben Brantley; August (1945-2005) Wilson; Ruben Santiago-Hudson; Lance Reddick; Cassandra Freeman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



474 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Walker Evans. Or Is It?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
A PHOTOGRAPHER snaps a picture. If it's a camera with film, a negative is made; if it's a digital camera, a file is produced. A printer, in a dark room using chemicals, or at a computer screen, can tinker with the image, crop it, enlarge it, make it lighter or darker, highlight one part or obscure another. 
 In other words, the image produced by the camera, whether it's a negative or a digital file, is only the matrix for the work of art. It is not the work itself, although if the photographer is a journalist, any hanky-panky in the printing process comes at the potential cost of the picture's integrity. Digital technology has not introduced manipulation into this universe; it has only multiplied the opportunities for mischief.
I dawdle over this familiar ground because the digitally produced prints of classic Walker Evans photographs, now at the UBS Art Gallery, are so seductive and luxurious -- velvety, full of rich detail, poster-size in a few cases and generally cinematic -- that they raise some basic issues about the nature of photography. 
 For starters they suggest a simple question, whether luxury and richness are apt qualities for pictures of Depression-era tenant farmers in the American South. These are, I must say, almost uncomfortably beautiful. In ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,'' where Evans first published many of these photographs in 1941, James Agee, his collaborator, wrote that the book might best have been issued on newsprint to suit the simple and honest character of its subjects. Photography compromises its own value, Agee thought, when it becomes pretentious. 
 For his part Evans notoriously disdained darkrooms and only haphazardly supervised the making of his own prints. But he adopted the new Polaroid SX-70 camera when it came along in 1973, indicating that he wasn't averse to new technologies; and with his negatives, like most photographers, he occasionally burned in or dodged out passages to make the pictures look more the way he wanted them to, which they couldn't otherwise. To a negative of the famous portrait of Allie Mae Burroughs, the sharp-faced Alabama tenant farmer's wife, he attached instructions for exposing furrows in her brow. Adjusting the exposure was the technique he had at hand, a crude one compared to digital technology.
 The new Evans prints are made by John Hill, a friend and colleague of Evans's at the Yale School of Art, in collaboration with Sven Martson, who printed photographs for Evans during the 1970's. They use carbon pigments. Evans shot these works on assignment for the Farm Security Administration, so they ended up in the Library of Congress as public property, where anybody now has permission to reproduce them. 
 The digital process allows Mr. Hill and Mr. Martson to uncover details embedded in the negatives, outside the tonal range of the old silver gelatin prints: a shadowy girl in the doorway of a roadside stand near Birmingham, Ala.; numbers painted on a telephone pole beside a gas station in Reedsville, W.Va.; penny-picture faces in a window of a photographer's studio in Savannah, Ga. The new prints modulate and unify the midranges of grays in these pictures to soften contrasts and give a warmer ambience to photographs that were often sharp and austere in Evans's gelatin silver prints. Mr. Hill, who put together the show, includes various books, magazines and prints that Evans supervised, so you can make the comparison yourself. 
 But does this improve the pictures? No. For one thing, it is not possible to improve on the quality of Evans's originals, only to emulate it. For another, size shifts how we see, both for better and worse. There is a level of concentration required by staring into a small gelatin silver print, a way the image focuses the mind and stays contained within a narrow field of vision, which is among the pleasures of photography. Bigger pictures are read differently, more piecemeal, in the way that film in a theater is viewed differently from an image on television or on a computer screen. Evans lugged his large-format camera around the rural South during the heat of summer so that he could make pictures containing lots of detail. And for his Museum of Modern Art retrospective in 1971 he approved the installation of a few blownup photographs as props.
 But a new detail revealed by an enlarged digital print becomes a visual fact that, however subtly, affects the balance of the entire picture. Photography is a seamless medium: a whole, continuous image put together at once, which the eye unconsciously distinguishes from a drawn image that is made inch by inch, or pixel by pixel, in the case of a digital image. 
 Maybe that's why these new prints have something of the aura of drawings. They are, Mr. Hill makes clear, his interpretations of Evans's work. The effort may summon to mind Sherrie Levine's appropriations of Evans's photographs, which were also conceived as high-end art objects, not commonplace reproductions. But while Ms. Levine trumpeted the inferior, second-hand quality of her copies (which at first sold for more than Evans's vintage prints; go figure), Mr. Hill and Mr. Martson bring to their works the authority of first-hand experience with Evans and an obvious devotion to him. 
 And this is where the philosophical implications get interesting. Is photography closer to music and theater, or to painting? A painting is what it is, and copies of it are not the same. Music and theater exist through their variety of interpretations. Mr. Hill makes the music argument, not surprisingly.
 The tricky part is that a listener knows a musician playing Bach is not Bach. Somebody looking at one of these new Evans prints is likely to assume it is by Evans, which it is of course only up to a point. That point is the threshold of the new technology. 
 It allows Mr. Hill and Mr. Martson to combine two separate images into a wide panorama of a street scene in Selma, Ala. The stitches are clear, acknowledging the interpretive lark. In other cases, moderate-to-large-scale prints of the Cherokee Parts Store and of Joe's Auto Graveyard in Pennsylvania, of matching houses with round windows and a Carole Lombard poster on a wall in front of them, and of a small-town main street, crisscrossed by telephone wires -- all these prove that Evans's pictures work at any size because they are emblematic and therefore infinitely reproduceable. 
 He combined Hemingway's economy with Cummings's wit and Eliot's urbanity. His laconic scrutiny defined an American visual poetry stripped of Victorian charm and propriety and easy bohemianism. It's there in the rhyming circles of the windows of the houses echoing Lombard's shiner on the poster, in the haphazard geometry of the telephone wires and in the tumble of abandoned Model T's, like tombstones, collected at the base of a grassy hill. The last is akin to one of Brady's Civil War photographs, silent and eternal. Evans's mordant dispassion let him see destitution and the everyday in all its ready-made eloquence, short-circuiting our pity and condescension. 
 About that famous Allie Mae Burroughs portrait, of which there is a new, sumptuous print and also a billboard-size image in the UBS show, Lionel Trilling pointed out that she ''simply refuses to be an object of your 'social consciousness.' She refuses to be an object at all.''
 These latest prints, beautiful though they are, will no doubt be superseded by further technological inventions claiming to extract still more signs of the artist's genius.
 They will come and go. Technology isn't timeless. Evans is.

So Reproduceable
 The reproductions of Walker Evans photographs that you see here on newsprint were made from digital scans, in TIFF format, e-mailed to The New York Times by the UBS Art Gallery, of enlarged ink-jet prints made recently from digital scans of gelatin silver prints produced from the artist's original negatives preserved in the Library of Congress. Above, a mini-version of Evans's famous portrait of Allie Mae Burroughs, ''Alabama Cotton Tenant Farmer's Wife'' (1936).

''Walker Evans: Carbon and Silver'' through Nov. 17 at the UBS Art Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, at 51st Street, (212) 713-2885.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Untitled, Selma, Alabama'' (1936), a combination of two images. (Photo by UBS Art Gallery)(pg. E27)
Emblematic images: ''Negro Barber Shop Interior, Atlanta'' (1936).
 ''Joe's Auto Graveyard, Pennsylvania'' (1936) by Walker Evans. He was on assignment for the Farm Security Administration, so his photographs are public property. (Photographs from UBS Art Gallery)(pg. E32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); WRITERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); LIBRARIES (64%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (64%) Photography; Reviews

PERSON: Michael Kimmelman; Walker Evans

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



475 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2353 words

HEADLINE: Failed Shops and Faded Charm Are Dual Worry in New Orleans

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON; John Schwartz and Ben Werschkul contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
For all the cheerful displays of Louisiana's best-known hot sauce and all the pepper-shaped and pepper-flavored products on the shelves, the Tabasco Country Store is in deep trouble.
 The shop, at the airport, was closed for months after Hurricane Katrina, and sales remain down 45 percent. The owner, Laura Y. Drumm, has mortgaged her house to the hilt; she has borrowed from her in-laws; her insurance will not pay for her losses, and neither will the government. Her one employee did not return after the storm, and her husband, Hughes, is running the store's cash register seven days a week.
 Recently, Mrs. Drumm said, she found herself driving through the city, crying. ''What I'm fearing now,'' she said, ''is that we're going to lose more of the mom-and-pop places that made it so special here.''
 Across the city, a year after the hurricane, shoppers, store owners, economists, even government officials share her fear. New Orleans's little restaurants, independent stores and small manufacturers do not just add flavor to the economy; in a city that lacks a big corporate base, they are the economy. And their revival, like that of the city as a whole, remains uncertain. 
 ''We expect to lose hundreds of them,'' said Michael J. Olivier, the state secretary of economic development, referring to the city's small businesses.
 Down on Frenchman Street, near the French Quarter, Kenneth and Melba Ferdinand are closing their coffee shop, Cafe Rose Nicaud, at 3 p.m., hovering between hope and fear, ''between a tear and a prayer,'' Mr. Ferdinand said. In the warehouse district, Jonathan Ferrara has been scrambling to find other tenants for the building that houses his art gallery as he wonders whether to leave the city.
 Out east in St. Bernard Parish, Chad Blanchard is hoping he was not foolish to spend his savings on reopening Charlie's restaurant, leaving himself with just 15 dollar bills in his back pocket. On Esplanade Avenue near City Park, Charles P. Ciaccio is struggling to lure shoppers to his new grocery store while rebuilding the one that was wiped out in the Lakeview neighborhood.
 And on Tchoupitoulas Street near the Mississippi River, at the showroom of Louisiana Variety Wholesale, Joseph S. DeLaune and his family pray for the quick return of the little gift shops and beauty parlors that used to buy their crystal and china bric-a-brac. Many entrepreneurs are hoping business will pick up in the fall, as it traditionally does.
 ''Twenty-two years of work, and it's going to boil down to what happens in these next four months,'' Mr. DeLaune said. 

Risking Loss of Character
 Even before the storm, New Orleans's economic ship was powered not by a couple of whales, but by a school of minnows. The city estimates that 95 percent of the 22,000 businesses here before Hurricane Katrina employed fewer than 100 workers (fewer than 25, in most cases). These included not just shops, but also the artists and manufacturers and wholesalers that supplied them, and the accountants and lawyers and cleaning companies that served them.
 About 60 percent of the businesses within the city limits have probably not reopened, according to a recent study by Louisiana State University, which tried to call about 8,500 of the 10,000 businesses registered with the state. At about 5,000 of the businesses, the phone had been disconnected or was not answered after five calls.
 Long term, more than 40 percent of those businesses are likely to disappear, said Timothy P. Ryan, an economist who is chancellor of the University of New Orleans. As residents return and the city rebuilds, new businesses will eventually open, but Dr. Ryan predicted that they would not be the same kind of businesses as their predecessors. ''Many of them may be in Sheetrocking,'' he said.
 So the fallout will be cultural as well as economic. Or as Dr. Ryan put it, if the city loses the quirky shops and the independent restaurants, ''we'll lose part of the character and charm and culture of the city.''
 In recent interviews, many business owners said they were overwhelmed by an environment in which they could not count on electricity, water pressure or, in some parts of town, a feeling of safety. Do not even ask about the cost of insurance.
 Their homes were damaged, or their shops destroyed, or both. Their customers, whether tourists or natives, have not come back. Neither have their employees, and they cannot find new ones. 
 Of course, stores and small businesses are thriving in parts of the city, particularly along Magazine Street, the shopping corridor serving the well-to-do ''Isle of Denial'' that did not flood. But even there, some much-loved shops have closed, and John Ward, the owner of an art-supply store that has been on the same block for 75 years, said he was having to work harder to keep his business in the black.
 In the French Quarter, where tourist traffic is still thin, the going is tough. Brandi C. Kelley, who owns Voodoo Authentica, a cheerful boutique filled with local folk art, said her effort to stay open had involved ''everything short of stealing.'' 
 Summers are always slow, Ms. Kelley said. But this year, she said, ''you could shoot a bullet down Royal Street and not hit a person.''
 Indeed, the street, which runs through the heart of the Quarter, has a sort of Sleeping Beauty feeling. Gilded furniture still fills the windows of the fancy antiques stores, but signs invite would-be customers to call for appointments. Tortorici's, a century-old Italian restaurant, has a perpetual sign in the window saying it is closed for a private party and wishing ''Happy Holidays!'' to passers-by.
 On nearby Bourbon Street, music still blasts from tourist bars, but it is possible to drive at any time of day without worrying about hitting a drunk, which was definitely not the case before the hurricane.

Struggling to Return
 The Quarter appears to be thriving, however, compared with those areas where almost nothing has reopened, particularly in the black neighborhoods east of the Industrial Canal.
 ''The African-American businesses are gone,'' said W. Anthony Patton, who should know; before the storm, they were the clients (and targets) of his marketing and advertising firm, EBONetworks. Now, while his fiancee and newborn son wait in Memphis, Mr. Patton has started a recruiting firm trying to lure some of those former customers back to New Orleans to fill jobs.
 The level of flooding in a given neighborhood has been the chief factor in how fast its businesses have returned, said Richard Campanella, a geographer at Tulane University and historian of the city. Since October, Professor Campanella has been tracking the situation on several major shopping streets from the seat of his bicycle. Each foot of flooding reduced the percentage of businesses that have returned by about 10 points, he said.
 So while dry Magazine Street recovered most of its businesses and even added some, the going has been much slower on St. Claude Avenue leading toward the Ninth Ward, where closed businesses still outnumber open ones.
 To his surprise, Professor Campanella said, the small independent businesses reopened first, not the national or regional chains, which presumably have more resources.
 ''Local individually owned stores have all their eggs in one basket,'' he said he realized. ''They had no choice but to do whatever they can to come back.''
 The metropolitan area lost about 184,000 jobs in the 12 months that ended in June, according to federal estimates, or about 30 percent of its prestorm employment. The area also has the highest unemployment rate, at 7.2 percent, of any big city in the country. 

Holding on to Hope
 State and local officials say there are bright spots. The traffic at the city's port, one of the nation's biggest, has rebounded. Shell Oil reopened its big office in the city. But Chevron is moving its city offices, and 500 jobs, to St. Tammany Parish, on higher ground across Lake Pontchartrain.
 Donald J. Trump is still promising to build the tallest office tower in town. The owner of the Hyatt Regency hotel near the Superdome, which remains closed because of storm damage, has proposed a complicated project that would create a new jazz center. 
 Some people have found their businesses expanding. One is Robbie Vitrano, a co-founder of Trumpet, an advertising agency, who has hired eight people since the hurricane and said he hoped to add a few more to his staff of 36. Mr. Vitrano said his firm had increased its civic involvement by, for example, working with a group of urban planners and architects on redevelopment planning.
 Early this year, he worried that some family-owned businesses that had been around since he was a child would disappear, like the stands selling the shaved-ice treats called snowballs, the horse-drawn candy wagon, the great toy stores. But recently, he said, he has become more optimistic.
 ''We hear about troubles, but we're still holding on to them,'' Mr. Vitrano said of his favorites.
 One of those regional fixtures is Le Jouet, a big blue-and-yellow toy store just west of the city in Metairie. The 30-year-old store, which had never flooded, took in three feet of water after the storm. Of course, it had no flood insurance, said the owner, Elm D. Wood Jr., who goes by Buddy. Mr. Wood filled seven huge trash bins with drowned dolls, soggy stuffed animals and other debris, but reopened in time for Christmas.
 ''I know I'm here for good,'' Mr. Wood said. ''It's dispiriting what we've seen in New Orleans, but I'm here to help anyway I can -- which is very little.''
 Some business owners have decided that they must leave, including Alvin A. Baumer Jr., president of Baumer Foods, which used to produce bottled sauces in a cramped factory by the highway in the Mid-City neighborhood. Its Crystal hot sauce, less incendiary than Tabasco, is a local favorite; the factory's sign, depicting a man in a chef's hat stirring a big pot, is a local landmark.
 Mr. Baumer had already been looking for a more efficient plant when the hurricane sent a wall of water into his factory. Since then, he has devoted all his time, energy and money to finding other producers to fill his orders and to finding another home for his business. 
 He needed a big building, and he found one, in LaPlace, La., about 25 miles west of downtown New Orleans. ''Technically, yes, we moved from New Orleans,'' Mr. Baumer said. ''But in my opinion, we're in the metro New Orleans area.''
 Unfortunately, he said, he cannot afford to take the old sign with him, and he thinks it is likely to be demolished. Some of his work force will go to LaPlace, but not all. At least one of his employees died in the storm, and some have never tried to collect their paychecks.
 ''These people had no way to leave,'' he said. ''I can't help but believe some perished.'' 

Lobbying for Help
 Mr. Baumer said he had been too busy to try to get aid from the government, though he was hoping he could qualify for some assistance. But many business owners said they had found that little help was available, especially for those who could not -- or were afraid to -- take out loans. 
 Louisiana is getting more than $10 billion in federal aid, but at Washington's insistence, almost all the money must go for housing, Mr. Olivier, the state official, said. Less than 4 percent will be used for economic development, he said, and only $38 million has been set aside for possible grants to small companies.
 Some private groups are trying to help, including The Idea Village, a nonprofit group that before the storm specialized in advising entrepreneurs starting high-tech businesses. Afterward, ''we realized our clients didn't need high-level consulting, they needed cash,'' said Timothy Williamson, president of the group.
 It has given advice and grants of more than $350,000 to about 120 companies, Mr. Williamson said, ''targeting small indigenous businesses that in effect are what makes New Orleans, New Orleans -- and uniquely New Orleans.''
 On another front, hundreds of small business owners have formed Second Wind, an advocacy group modeled on one that grew up in Manhattan after Sept. 11. Kevin J. Curnin, a lawyer at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan in New York, who donated his services to both groups, said that in New York, the government immediately set aside $500 million for grants to help small businesses.
 ''In New Orleans, almost a year later, we can't even get Baton Rouge or Washington to put real grant relief on the table,'' Mr. Curnin said. ''Since it accounts for more than half the economy, including most of the tourism and almost all the culture, letting the small-business community wither will only hurt long-term recovery.''
 After months of lobbying, members of the group recently met with representatives of Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, and they said they hoped she would agree that people rebuilding their homes also needed jobs and places to shop. 
 One of the group's leaders now is Mrs. Drumm, the owner of the Tabasco store, who said it was her first foray into activism. 
 ''I was a child of the 70's,'' she said. ''We were going disco dancing; we weren't going to rallies.''
 Group members are also helping one other. One told Mrs. Drumm about an unusual opportunity: a vacant store with reasonable rent on Jackson Square in the heart of the French Quarter. The store was in a historic building, near Cafe du Monde, a tourist magnet. After much agonizing, she decided to rent it and open a second location.
 Her husband was not enthusiastic about the idea, she said, at least at first. 
 ''He's afraid,'' she said. ''We're already spread thin. But I said, if we don't take advantage of the good things that have come out of all this, we might as well pack up and leave.''
 Tomorrow: The spotty state of federal emergency planning.

The Katrina Year
 This series will examine the lasting effects of Hurricane Katrina a year after it struck New Orleans and the Gulf Coast. The series, along with video, an interactive graphic and additional photographs, is available online at nytimes.com/katrina.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about the struggle of small businesses in New Orleans to recover after Hurricane Katrina misspelled the street where a coffee shop, Cafe Rose Nicaud, has been closing early. It is Frenchmen, not Frenchman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Melba and Kenneth Ferdinand with a friend at their shop, Cafe Rose Nicaud, near the French Quarter. The business hovers ''between a tear and a prayer,'' Mr. Ferdinand says.
Jonathan Ferrara, who has an art gallery in the warehouse district, has been looking for new tenants for his building and is considering leaving New Orleans. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 Then and Now -- When the Inner Harbor Navigation Canal burst on Aug. 29, 2005, it flooded the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans, destroying hundreds of homes in the low-income neighborhood. A year later, the area remains the most devastated part of the city, with debris scattered everywhere and grassy lots replacing family life. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Small Business; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



476 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: A Year After the Storm, Business Remains Unusual

 BODY:
No one said it would be easy.
 A year after Hurricane Katrina, businesses are still trying to put the pieces back together, with varying degrees of success.
Big businesses have fared better than small ones, but few have come through unscathed, based on interviews with the city's employers. Many reported raising wages 10 percent to 20 percent to attract skilled labor.
 Universities have reopened, but with a decline in enrollment and the exodus of some faculty members. 
 Health care, like education a major employer before the storm, is in a period of upheaval. Some large hospitals are closed and will remain so.
 For small businesses that were flooded, the road back has been the most difficult, but even those that escaped flooding have struggled.
 Many agree that the city cannot fully recover unless it becomes a tourist destination again.
 ''We need to restore the brand that is New Orleans,'' said Alfred Groos, general manager of the Royal Sonesta Hotel, which reopened shortly after the storm but has had lower occupancy rates than before Hurricane Katrina. ''That is the biggest challenge that we all have.''

 State: -5%
 Federal: -18%

Many of the largest government employers were hospitals, which have had problems. The Southeast Louisiana Veterans hospital is only serving out-patients and has 1,000 employees, down from 1,750. The Medical Center of Louisiana at New Orleans has 2,000 employees, down from 4,000.

Small Businesses
A survey of small businesses along streets in four neighborhoods shows the range of difficulties facing their owners.

MAGAZINE ST.
Well away from the flooding, the area largely escaped damage. ''Magazine Street is booming,'' said Mignon Parent of Sweet Pea and Tulip, a clothing store.

National Art and Hobby
John Ward, owner, struck a more cautious note than most on the block. Slower sales and the disruption of being closed for a month make him worry about the business. ''We weren't making a killing before, and it's harder to stay in the black now,'' he said.

Ristorante Civello
Although the hurricane delayed the opening of his new restaurant, Russell Civello said he never seriously considered giving up. ''Just about everything we figured on has come to fruition,'' he said. ''This is New Orleans, what's left of it.''

Cafe Luna
Ernesto Montano, owner, said his cafe was busier than before the storm. ''Since we opened early from the hurricane, we adopted a lot of new customers and a lot of people adopted us,'' he said. A Starbucks across the street is one of the few businesses in the area still closed.

S. CARROLLTON AVE.
This street near mid-city was flooded in places. Across the street from a still boarded-up strip mall, many businesses are starting to come back.

The Bag Man and New Directions Barber Shop
Kevin Davis and Arthur M. Anderson, business partners, rebuilt the shop from the ground up, after looters stole everything that survived the three feet of water. Some work remains, but the store is open and sales are picking up.

The Five Happiness
This destination restaurant for many New Orleanians suffered severe wind and flood damage but reopened in April. Current and former kitchen staff members did much of the early remodeling before a suitable contractor could be found.

Pep Boys
Although it received only a few inches of water, Pep Boys does not plan to reopen until mid-October. Neighbors expressed surprise that a national chain was taking so long to open: ''A big corporation can afford to wait,'' said Rose Lo, one of the owners of The Five Happiness.

ST. ANN ST.
Facing the square where President Bush called for rebuilding, the shops here have not escaped the broad decline in tourism.

La Madeleine
This bakery-cafe-bistro never reopened after the storm, a huge blow to the block because of the foot traffic it generated. ''We kept on praying that they were going to come back,'' said Lisette Sutton of Creole Delicacies, two doors down.

Southern Expressions Art Gallery
Joel T. Moak's gallery had no hurricane damage and no looting. ''Even the awnings were fine'' he said. But with the lack of tourists, the store ''can go for five days with no sales,'' he said, and faces the possibility of closing.

River's Edge Restaurant
Dale Rodriguez, general manager, estimated that the restaurant had about a quarter of the business it had before the storm. ''If we were doing half the business, we could survive. But we're not,'' he said.

N. CLAIBORNE AVE.
The Lower Ninth Ward was devastated by flooding. Many homes are still in ruins, and few businesses are reopening.

Repair shop
What was once an appliance repair shop is now an empty hulk. The front of the former business is open and destroyed appliances are scattered about inside. The store appears to have been abandoned.

Gentle Dental Care
The water was so high that it brought down the ceiling tiles, but after the flood Dr. Kendall Parker said he ''put down the dental drill and picked up a hammer'' and plans to reopen today. ''I'm pretty sure I'm going to be the only business in this block,'' he said.

Flamin' Designs Beauty Salon
Nedra Bell has started to rebuild but is still not sure whether she will ever reopen her salon. ''It wouldn't take long to get the place together,'' she said, but she does not want to finish rebuilding and then have the area abandoned. ''It is a wait-and-see game,'' she said.

Maps of New Oleans highlighting locations of businesses mentioned above.

(Sources by Interviews with the businesses; Bureau of Labor Statistics)

GRAPHIC: Photos (Illustrations by Joe Burgess, Jonathan Corum, Amanda Cox, Dylan Loeb McClain and Ben Werschkul/The New York Times
 photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Large Businesses''The charts below show the total number of employees in each industry sector in the New Orleans metropolitan area, as of June. Figures show the percentage change from a year earlier.Private education and health services -44%Colleges and universities: -34%Hospitals: -17%Ambulatory care: -45%Other health care: -68%Other education: -68%Ochsner Health System, one of the area's largest employers, raised wages to attract workers in some key areas like nursing. Tulane, the largest university, reduced staffing by 1,000.Professional and business services -37%Employment services: -40%Management: -22%Legal: -37%Advertising, design, architecture and others: -52%Administrative and support services: -29%Many in this sector do not have as much work as before, but law firms are an exception. McGlinchey Stafford, one of the city's largest law firms, expects business to expand.Leisure and hospitality -34%Restaurants and bars: -32%Hotels:-22%Gambling: -53%Other arts: -63%Ritz-Carlton is only now preparing to reopen its hotels. The Ralph Brennan Restaurant Group raised hourly wages an average of $2 to get skilled cooks and servers. Harrah's casino is operating with a few hundred fewer employees.Manufacturing and refining: -28%Shipbuilding: -19%Other durable: -47%Other nondurable: -51%Chemical: UNCHANGEDOther transport: UNCHANGEDPetroleum: UNCHANGEDNorthrop Grumman's Avondale shipyard employs 5,000, compared with 6,700 before the storm.Wholesale, retail, transportation and utilities -27%Grocery and beverage stores: -69%Health stores:-34%General stores: -49%Other retail: -20%Transportation and warehousing: -10%Utilities: -4%Nondurable wholesale: UNCHANGEDDurable wholesale: -34%Other wholesale: -39%Wal-Mart has reopened two supercenters. One in Harvey is operating 24 hours and almost back to pre-storm employment, but the other, in New Orleans on Tchoupitoulas Street, is still using only part of the building and, with 325 employees, has 175 fewer than before the storm.Financial activities: -23%Banking: -29%Investments, insurance, real estate, other finance: -24%Other credit: -7%Many Capital One bank branches have opened, though not in the hardest-hit areas.Oil drilling, mining and construction: -22%Oil drilling: -6%Other mining: +38%Heavy construction: -19%Specialty contractors: -42%Other construction: -37%Boh Bros. is up to 1,500 employees, the same as before the storm, and expects revenue to grow by more than $100 million this year.Information -22%Publishing, movie theaters, telecommunications: -22%BellSouth reopened offices, but moved a calling center, and 200 jobs, elsewhere.Government -13%Local: -15%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); TRENDS (77%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (70%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (70%); RETAILERS (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); HOTEL STAFF (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TOURISM (54%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business; Labor; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



477 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Elite School Diversity

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Elite Schools, a Dip in Blacks and Hispanics'' (front page, Aug. 18), New York City's deputy chancellor for teaching and learning described the finding as ''surprising.'' What was really surprising was that he didn't know the facts. 
As a former Stuyvesant High School parent, I had always wondered whether the school management, with its elitist, private-school mentality and largely privileged parent body, ever really wanted to open up to black or Hispanic students or other nontraditional immigrant communities of color. It's an Ivy League-aspirant mind-set, and the city happily panders to it. The result is that residents pay for these schools' high-bracket education, yet the city loses the students after they graduate. 
 If the city and the schools alike actively recruited smart kids from underprivileged communities and encouraged them to enroll in local public colleges, New York's economy and education system would be truly strong, diverse and egalitarian.

Partha Banerjee
Brooklyn, Aug. 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans

ORGANIZATION: Hunter College High School (NYC); Bronx High School of Science; Stuyvesant High School (NYC)

PERSON: Partha Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



478 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Thus Spake Zinsmeister

BYLINE: By THOMAS FRANK. 
Thomas Frank is the author, most recently, of ''What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America.'' He is a guest columnist during August.

 BODY:
In their more grandiloquent moments, conservative publicists will say that the decades-long Republican ascendancy in American government has been an intellectual achievement, that the G.O.P. prevails because it is the ''party of ideas.'' And, indeed, during the last three decades a cottage industry of conservative institutes and foundations has grown into a powerful quasi-academy with seven-figure budgets and phalanxes of ''senior fellows'' and ''distinguished chairs.'' 
 While real academics dither and fret over bugbears like certainty and balance, the scholars of the American Enterprise Institute, the Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute act boldly in the knowledge, to quote a seminal conservative text, that ideas have consequences. Luckily, the consequences are for other people. 
Now upon the national stage steps one Karl Zinsmeister, formerly the editor of the American Enterprise Institute's flagship magazine and now the president's chief domestic policy adviser. In right-wing circles he is regarded as an intellectual heavyweight. What his career really shows us, though, is the looming exhaustion of the conservative intellectual system; its hopeless addiction to dusty, crumbling cliches; and a blindness to the reality of conservative power so persistent and so bizarre that it amounts to self-deception or, in Zinsmeister's case, delusion. 
 Let us begin with Zinsmeister's infamous remark that the people of Washington are ''morally repugnant, cheating, shifty human beings,'' a declaration he later clarified to encompass only the city's ''overclass.'' One could justifiably read his words as an obvious reference to the lobbyists, think-tankers, and fund-raising Congressmen who make up the Republican machine. 
 But a brief read through Zinsmeister's journalistic oeuvre reveals that liberals are, with a few exceptions, the only ones capable of repugnancy, shiftiness and membership in overclasses. This last quality is a point of particular emphasis in Zinsmeister's writing. Over the years, his editorials come back again and again to ''elites'' and their nefarious ways: ''educated elites,'' ''East Coast elites'' and ''professor/lawyer/journalist/activist elites,'' all of them shamefully out of tune with the good people of America.
 Now, I am all for criticizing elites, beginning with Zinsmeister's former employer, the American Enterprise Institute, which has long been the reliable voice of corporate money. Its principals effectively ran the Goldwater campaign in 1964, and it was deep thinkers from the institute who, after moving into the Bush administration, dreamed up the war in Iraq. Today, its roster is a comprehensive directory of conservative Washington power; there is no better-connected group of people outside the government itself. 
 One might say the institute is a living lesson in the power of elites and shifty overclasses to distort debate. But that would imply that we have classes, and as Zinsmeister once wrote, the idea ''that the United States has separate classes is dubious.''
 Then why has Zinsmeister expended so much ink assailing elites and their works? Enter the magic concept of the market, the source of corporate power and all else that is sacred. The working of the free market ''is democracy,'' Zinsmeister writes, ''with pluralities of economic actors exerting votes.'' Democracy itself, however, if it takes the form of a regulatory state, ''is monarchism. It lets the handful at court boss the masses.'' 
 Swallow this, and all the rest of it starts to make sense: how liberals are elites even when they aren't, how the sweatshop economy of the Mariana Islands is the will of a humble people looking to be free from a domineering central government (an argument Zinsmeister's magazine made in 1997), and how a well-subsized think-tank editor can advise the victims of economic dislocation to stop whining. 
 Swallow too much of it, though, and the almighty market will start to dissolve your moral sense. You might even unconsciously decide to reduce the Almighty to an advertising slogan. For an issue in 2003, Zinsmeister's magazine bore as its headline the words, ''Things Go Better With God,'' a repurposed Coca-Cola slogan in which the King of Kings was allowed to momentarily occupy the throne of the brand of brands. A better writer would have titled it, ''I'd Like to Buy the World a God'' -- but maybe Zinsmeister can propose that as a motto for his new employer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%) United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%) American Enterprise Institute

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Thomas Frank; Karl Zinsmeister; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



479 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Opens an Inquiry Into Israeli Cluster Bombs
The State Department is investigating whether Israel's use of American-made cluster bombs in southern Lebanon violated secret agreements with the United States that restrict when such weapons can be employed, two officials said. A1

France pledged to send 2,000 troops to the United Nations multinational peacekeeping force for Lebanon, in a last-minute effort to salvage its flagging reputation and hold on to its leadership role in the face of Italian competition. 
 A11

Refugees returning to their neighborhoods in southern Lebanon have found an enormous tally of damage to their homes and to local infrastructure, including what they say was gratuitous destruction after the cease-fire began by Israeli soldiers still stationed nearby. A10

Journalist Sentenced to 3 Years
A Beijing court unexpectedly dismissed a state secrets charge against a researcher for The New York Times but sentenced him to three years in prison on a lesser, unrelated charge of fraud. A1

Iran Exhibits Anti-Jewish Art
An exhibit in Tehran featuring cartoons challenging accounts of the Holocaust opened this month as a response to the Danish newspaper cartoons that lampooned the Prophet Muhammad. But while Iranians say they are angry at Israel, they do not seem in a rush to see the show. A8

Iraqi Cleric Presses Politicians
In a rare political statement, Iraq's most prominent Shiite religious leader has urged government ministers and members of Parliament to refrain from taking trips abroad and focus on improving the lives of ordinary citizens, a spokesman said. A5

Charity Suspected in Plane Plot
The British Charity Commission said it was formally investigating the aid group Crescent Relief and has frozen its funds following allegations that the charity was linked to a thwarted terrorist plot to blow up trans-Atlantic flights. A6

U.S. Envoy to Visit Sudan
President Bush dispatched his senior African affairs official to Sudan to try to persuade its government to accept a United Nations peacekeeping force in Darfur. At the United Nations, Sudan rebuffed a Security Council invitation to discuss the resolution creating the force. A7

2nd Arrest in German Plot
The second suspect in a failed plot to bomb two German trains turned himself in to the police in Lebanon, encouraging German authorities in a case that has unnerved the country and prompted a debate over its antiterrorism policies. A6

Dutch Clear 12 on India Flight
Dutch authorities said they were releasing all 12 passengers arrested after they aroused suspicion on a Northwest Airlines flight to India, which made an emergency landing in Amsterdam. The police said the men had been unruly but no evidence was found that they had planned any terrorist acts. A6

NATIONAL A12-18

Next-Day Pill Is Approved For Over-the-Counter Sale
The Food and Drug Administration approved over-the-counter sales of the morning-after contraceptive pill to those 18 and older, resolving one of the most contentious issues in the agency's history. A1

New Orleans Shops Struggle
Across New Orleans, a year after Hurricane Katrina, shoppers, store owners, economists, even government officials share the fear that the city's little restaurants, independent stores and small manufacturers will close for good. A1

Already Campaigning for 2008
Potential presidential contenders are building the foundations of their 2008 campaigns in what officials in both parties describe as an urgent, unusually aggressive and amazingly early effort. A1

Reordering the Solar System
Astronomers voted on a sweeping reclassification of the solar system, demoting Pluto to the status of a ''dwarf planet.'' In the new solar system there are eight planets, at least three dwarf planets, and a multitude of ''smaller solar system bodies.'' A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Corzine Nominates Adviser For New Attorney General
Gov. Jon S. Corzine nominated his chief counsel, Stuart J. Rabner, to become New Jersey's next attorney general. The announcement came nine days after Zulima V. Farber resigned as attorney general after an investigation found that she had violated state ethics rules by going to the aid of her companion during a traffic stop. B1

Broadcast Leads to Arrest
A Staten Island man who ran a small startup company that provided satellite television services to households was arrested and his business raided by federal agents. He was charged with providing services that included satellite broadcasts of a television station controlled by the terrorist group Hezbollah -- a violation of federal law. B1

OBITUARIES C10

Maynard Ferguson
A musician whose soaring trumpeting reached the instrument's highest ranges and propelled a musical career of more than 60 years, he was 78. C10

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Apple Recalls Batteries
Apple Computer said that it was recalling 1.8 million battery packs from some models of its computers. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Wanted: scarier intelligence; easier access to morning-after pills; and now there are eight; a (terror) fish story.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas Frank.

Crossword E2
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E25
Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); GENOCIDE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); PRISONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); HOLOCAUST (72%); REFUGEES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLITICS (70%); WRITERS (68%); RELIGION (67%); CHARITIES LAW (64%); US FDA APPROVALS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) ISRAEL (95%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



480 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Diplomatic Memo; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: In Muted Response to Iran, U.S. and Allies Seek Edge

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
After demanding for three months that Iran suspend its uranium enrichment or face penalties, the formal reaction from the United States and its European allies to Iran's refusal to suspend uranium enrichment has been decidedly low-key. 
 Why the reticence? 
It is all about a public relations strategy intended to make the West appear patient and measured in dealing with the issue, United States and European diplomats say.
 After receiving Iran's response on Tuesday to a proposal to curb the country's nuclear program, Bush administration officials had a series of telephone calls with European counterparts to discuss where to go from there. 
 Everyone agreed that Iran had not met the most crucial requirement: that it suspend uranium enrichment. Everyone agreed that sanctions were the next step. But disagreement on just how to get to that step reflected a familiar division: between the State Department and America's European allies on one side, and hard-liners in the Bush administration, particularly in Vice President Dick Cheney's office, on the other side, according to officials involved in the discussions.
 Officials representing the vice president, including John P. Hannah, a national security aide, argued that by not slamming the Iranian document from the start, the United States was allowing Iran's response to appear reasonable. 
 State Department officials, on the other hand, pressed to ''keep the temperature down,'' as one American put it. They pushed for a concerted media strategy that would help keep Russia and China on board the already fragile coalition trying to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions, American and European diplomats recounted. The officials, representing some of the countries most actively engaged in the issue, would only discuss their private strategy if they were not further identified.
 ''The thinking was, even though we all know the Iranian response doesn't amount to much, before rejecting it out of hand we should remember that at least two members of the group have a Security Council veto,'' one European diplomat said, referring to Russia and China and their historic aversion to penalties. He referred to the strategy as ''giving Iran the rope to hang itself.''
 The result: on Wednesday, a day after receiving the Iranian response, America, the most hawkish in the coalition of six countries that made the offer, issued a tepid statement -- and not through its blunt United Nations ambassador, John R. Bolton, but from a low-profile acting State Department spokesman, Gonzalo Gallegos. While the American statement mentioned the obvious, that Iran's response ''falls short'' of the uranium suspension condition, it was careful to add: ''We acknowledge that Iran considers its response as a serious offer, and we will review it.'' 
 Across the Atlantic, the reaction was also muted. In Paris, Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said simply that Iran must stop uranium enrichment before negotiation on its nuclear program could resume. In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel echoed, ''What we expected is not stated there, namely: 'We will suspend our uranium enrichment and come to the negotiating table.' ''
 There were no official mentions of penalties, despite the looming Aug. 31 deadline that the six countries, which also include Britain, have given for Iran to suspend enrichment.
 United States and European diplomats say the response so far is part of a calculated public campaign to give the appearance that they are carefully considering Iran's response, despite the fact that Britain, Germany, France and the United States all agree that it was unsatisfactory. 
 The four countries still plan to pursue penalties if Iran does not suspend uranium enrichment by the Aug. 31 deadline set by the United Nations Security Council. But, officials from all four countries said, they do not want to appear trigger happy. 
 The maneuvering highlights the fragile nature of the coalition on Iran that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is trying to keep together. While the United States and its European allies appear to be united in the notion that the next step should be to impose penalties on Iran through the Security Council, Russia and China remain question marks. Neither country likes sanctions in general, and both have been loath to hit Iran in particular, since both have deep economic interests there. 
 Both Russia and China crossed a diplomatic threshold in July and joined the United States and Europe in seeking a Security Council resolution ordering Iran to freeze some nuclear activities, or face penalties. United States officials said Ms. Rice received assurances in June that Russia would, at a minimum, sign on to a first phase of weak sanctions if Iran refused to suspend uranium enrichment. Those penalties would probably include a ban on travel by Iranian officials and curbs on imports of nuclear-related technology.
 But the diplomatic choreography under way demonstrates that Russian and Chinese cooperation is by no means assured, analysts say. 
 Iran's nuclear program and its response to the offer from world powers are on the agenda for Friday's meeting of European Union foreign ministers in Brussels. But that meeting is expected to be dominated by the international effort to come up with a peacekeeping force in Lebanon. European officials said that the foreign ministers were not expected seriously to take up the Iran issue until Sept. 1. 
 A senior Bush administration official said the group wanted to avoid the criticism leveled at Iran last year for being too quick to turn down a European offer on its nuclear program. ''The game is about appearing to be reasonable,'' the Bush official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); VETO (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (57%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%) Iran; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



481 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: A 9/11 Shrine, With the Tragic, Toxic Dust

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It is always dangerous to disturb toxic dust, but this dust is historic, and possibly sacred. 
 This week, a crew in hazard suits navigated a sealed bubble at the New-York Historical Society to recreate an eerie time capsule of Sept. 11, 2001, as the fifth anniversary approaches.
Starting on Monday, the workers began carefully carrying dust-covered Levi's jeans and begrimed, flag-bearing Ralph Lauren sweaters out of storage. Then they meticulously positioned them as they were first preserved under glass in the storefront of Chelsea Jeans, a block from the World Trade Center. Enclosed by the store's owner, David Cohen, the impromptu shrine became a place of pilgrimage for thousands of tourists, mourners and recovery workers in the year after the attack. 
 ''Here I am, trying to preserve what I normally clean off,'' said Alan Balicki, the senior conservator at the society, who is accustomed to removing grime from rare maps and prints and the occasional Audubon folio. For this job, he wears a hazard suit. ''It's strange to be so carefully preserving something that is so destructive.'' 
 The relics -- blue jeans and red, blue and yellow tank tops, T-shirts and sweaters covered with toxic dust from ground zero-- were removed by the society in October 2002 from the now-vacant store at 196 Broadway near Fulton Street. 
 The exhibition, ''Elegy in the Dust: Sept. 11th and the Chelsea Jeans Memorial,'' opens today at the society at 77th Street and Central Park West, and will be on view through Jan. 7. Amy Weinstein, the curator, called it ''a visceral reminder of the terror, grief and emotional turmoil of that day.''
 Nothing like the installation has been done before, she said. The fragile textiles and the toxic dust that coated them required delicate handling. Curators had to protect themselves from the exhibition artifacts and also ensure the safety of museum visitors.
 Since so many relatives of World Trade Center victims believe their loved ones' remains are present in the ground zero residue, the artifacts ''must be treated respectfully,'' Ms. Weinstein said. 
 Other spontaneous trade center memorials have been preserved, but this ''is the only one created from materials so perishable and so close to the events,'' she added. ''It is the only one preserving the dust in place, on blue jeans as ordinary as the people who were caught up in this event. And now, ordinary ash and dust have become extraordinary.'' 
 The installation was completed yesterday. The four-member crew toiled sweatily within a temporary tent of polyethylene sheeting six millimeters thick, which protects the society's exhibition space from dust believed to be laced with lung-damaging carcinogens, including asbestos. The hazard team wore respirators with compound filters to protect them from noxious particulates and organic vapors, and their Tyvek suits were designed to keep static electricity from attracting the dust.
 The enormous $41,000, 12-foot-high custom-made exhibition case is a microenvironment intended not only to protect the objects, as is usual in museum displays, but also to protect museum visitors from the objects. Its plexiglass shield is sealed tightly with gaskets, and the case itself is bonded to the floor with silicone. 
 The diorama of tragedy has been squeezed into a 12-by-12-by-6-foot space, not the exact original specifications but sufficient to ''capture the essence'' of the ground zero version, said Ms. Weinstein, who helped supervise the dismantling of the shrine in 2002.
 Mr. Cohen, the owner, destroyed all but $1,000 worth of his ruined merchandise, then spent about $10,000 to encase the remainder. 
 Thousands visited the memorial at the store -- Mr. Cohen estimated it was hundreds of thousands -- but not enough of them were interested in shopping during the economic slump that visited Lower Manhattan. The store closed on Oct. 26, 2002. The memorial was carefully stowed in five custom-built airtight storage boxes and removed to the historical society two days later. 
 After nearly four years in climate-controlled darkness, the boxes were opened on Monday. ''We didn't know if the dust was corrosive enough to eat through the fabric of the jeans and the sweaters,'' Ms. Weinstein said. 
 They had worried needlessly. ''I was astounded at how well preserved the fabrics were,'' said Chris Myers, the project manager for the Syracuse office of Clean Harbors Environmental Services, a hazardous-waste cleanup company. 
 The conservators had documented the original memorial by taking photographs and consulted them to recreate the shrine. ''We've tried to keep the dust intact,'' Ms. Myers said, noting, with a laugh, that ''you can sneeze into your mask.''
 Mounting the exhibition ''brought it full circle for me,'' said Ms. Myers, who supervised the removal team in 2002. ''There was so much sadness there -- then. But the project reconstruction gives me a feeling of hope and strength. I'm glad I could revisit this, to begin it and end it.'' 
 The exhibition includes videos of the original and its removal, as well as photographs recalling the timeline of events on and after Sept. 11. The show is the society's 15th special exhibition about the terrorist attack. 
 While these artifacts are part of the society's permanent collection, Ms. Weinstein said, ''we thought from the beginning that this might be appropriate for the ground zero museum. But that's up to them.''
 Alice M. Greenwald, director of the World Trade Center Memorial Museum, said it was ''way too early to say if it will be used in our exhibition.'' She added: ''I'll be seeing it for the first time at the historical society, and I think we have a lot to learn from them. They have, after all, been dealing with dust.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeans and other apparel that were dusted with 9/11 debris in a Lower Manhattan store window are reassembled for display after being sealed and stored since 2002. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CARCINOGENS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); TEXTILES (62%); ASBESTOS (60%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (50%) Terrorism; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Dust; Apparel

ORGANIZATION: New-York Historical Society; Chelsea Jeans (NYC Shop)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (56%) Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; World Trade Center (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



482 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Talking Points; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2415 words

HEADLINE: Readers Respond to Things Fall Apart

 BODY:
Jill E. Burwell, Mt. Morris, Mich.: Maybe people like my husband and me dont show up in the polls, but we have spent considerable time discussing infrastructure in the U.S.A. One would have to be blind not to see the decay everywhere. Our pet peeve is the state of railroading. We know the technology exists, because other countries have done it, to make railroads a dynamic part of our transportation system. Using railroads at full potential would remove many of the big trucks which prematurely destroy roads and clog highway traffic.
 I would be willing to have my taxes raised if the rich also give up their recent super tax cuts and pay tolls if it meant good roads, dependable electricity, ongoing research for clean, alternative power sources, a super railroad system to move goods around the country and the all the jobs created to get this work done. No more earmarks! As suggested, we need a bipartisan strategy, that combines public and private efforts, for bringing Americas infrastructure into the new millennium. A+ to The New York Times for focusing on this issue. 
 Daniel OConnell, Phoenix: I agree wholeheartedly with your claims concerning the necessity of upgraded infrastructures both in the realms of transportation and communication for a competitive and productive future in the United States. How long can the U.S. afford to ignore the potential benefits of more developed railway infrastructures both within cities and regions and between them? Traffic, pollution, and extreme drains on water and other resources are all being caused by the cars driven and endless urban sprawling occurring in so many American cities today. Phoenix is now much like L.A. There are thousands of people who live more than 20 to 30 miles from where they work. People continue to push farther out from the city to chase cheap housing, their own plot of land. However, as these thousands of people commute to downtown Phoenix for work, streets and highways experience what are now considered normal backups that are near gridlocks for hours at time. And this is fueling the push for even more and even wider streets and highways. The U.S. and Phoenix must break this dependence on cars and highways. Railways and better urban planning and reorganization must become factors if Americans are to remain both economically competitive and environmentally conscious.
 Lukas Rosenthaler, Allschwil, Switzerland: One piece of infrastructure thats often overlooked are the railroads. While Europe and Asia invest large sums into the railroads, Americas railroads often look like those in Third World countries. The dismal state of Amtrak is basically due to a grossly negligent disinterest by the government, but also the freight-only lines are often in a rotten state. During the 1970s, many railroad lines were abandoned, single-tracked etc., and maintenance has been neglected. This capacity is missing now and a quick fix is not possible. Facing ever increasing prices of oil, facing terrorist threats to the airline industry where each plane can be turned into a flying bomb, passenger rail must become again a valuable option for travel. 
 Daniel Gottlieb, Vermont: I appreciate your insightful and largely balanced comments. However, you dont discuss efficiency or the goal. Is the goal to reduce traffic time to zero? If so, we just need triple the number of roads, costing us billions, reducing quality of life, guaranteeing auto dependence and increasing sprawl. What were doing now, just reacting, clearly isnt the right solution. ... Its often cheaper overall to pay people to use less than to collectively pay for additional infrastructure. The advantages of getting by with less are manifold reduced energy dependency, less pollution, reduced global warming, better Q.O.L. etc. Building more is sometimes the right way to go, but certainly not always. Its time we think outside the box or perhaps just exhibit a bit of Yankee frugality.
 Nicholas Kulish responds: Good points, all. I am a big supporter of public transportation and both commuter and freight trains. Energy-efficient transportation is an important goal for our society, as are combating sprawl and cutting back fuel consumption. But we still need good roads. It will take a lot of work to change the driving culture in America.
 Alan Walker, Toronto: I read the posted article and agree with its direction. I do have to comment, as a recent visitor to the Northeast states. We drove from Toronto through New York state, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Whether an interstate, a toll road, and in particular secondary highways, we were hugely impressed by the quality and condition of the roads. We were wandering from New York City suburbs, to the major interstates, to quiet byways. All were in superb condition, regrettably far superior to roads in Canada.
 Nell Painter, Newark, N.J.: Thank you so much for talking about this! After a trip to Tokyo in 2004 I returned to the N.Y./N.J. metropolitan region, where thank you for your patience signs were everywhere, especially around crucial public transportation. I felt like I lived in a Third World country.
 Christos Talanoz, Munich: Excellent piece. I was born in Germany, but educated in the United States. It was the United States that taught me about being pro-active and thinking ahead. Surprising then that so many European and Asian countries seem like space age societies when it comes to comparing their infrastructure to Americas. I just dont understand it. However, I do think it really boils down to public policy. If Americans would just set their priorities a tad differently, there would be no talk about crumbling infrastructure or crumbling health care.
 America has some of the smartest people in the world. All you need now is a government that sets priorities a bit smarter as well! The people who say let private firms take care of all of this are simply wrong. The private sector must thrive, but government must do the infrastructure things which do not pay off in the short term.
 I think that is what it boils down to : There is this American myth that everything government does is bad. It is created by the conservative government itself. Why ? The myth allows the government to take tax payer money, not spend it on its people and get away with it. The myth allows government to fraudulently pour tax payer money into a few big private pockets, with everyone just shrugging their shoulders saying, See, I told you government is incompetent. That is unacceptable and you must demand that the formidable resources of the U.S. government be put to good use to support the wider economic interest of the people of the United States. 
 Nicholas Kulish responds: I think Americans became complacent in part because our infrastructure used to be so good. We have a hard time imagining that we might have somehow slipped behind the rest of the world. But Ive seen testimony before Congress that China is pumping $60 billion into its high-speed Internet network each year. My colleague here at The Times, Amy Waldman, wrote a series on the new highways India is building. Increasingly, were lagging behind the pack. If we dont reverse the trend it will come back to haunt us. Sounds like the Canadians are having some trouble too. 
 Richard Pasquier, Wynnewood, Pa.: I was glad to see the topic of our declining infrastructure tackled by a member of the New York Times Editorial Board. I have made improving infrastructure and devising means for making the necessary investments affordable for the nation a personal crusade of mine. In my opinion, there will be no improvement in our national efforts unless we consider alternative funding arrangements to our current budget process. And mere capital budgeting is not enough. I suggest that we return to the model of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (R.F.C.), the institution used from the 1930s through the 1950s to build much of the infrastructure referred to in the article. 
 Nicholas Kulish responds: I havent studied the R.F.C., but have seen it criticized for excessive bureaucracy during the Hoover Administration. Maybe thats a bad rap though. When I was an economics reporter at The Wall Street Journal, my boss, Jacob M. Schlesinger, believed that President Hoover was unappreciated and underestimated. Im in favor of exploring any new model for deploying our resources effectively.
 Margaret Meredith, Maastricht, The Netherlands: Im thrilled to see that someone affiliated with an established institution ... finally noticed that the nations infrastructure is literally falling apart. I noticed years ago when I lived in Washington D. C. that the citys infrastructure was in terrible shape. It is our nations capital, after all. I moved to San Diego where there is still a lot of investment in the citys infrastructure, largely because of its rapid growth. Every time I return to the east coast or drive from it to the west coast, Im shocked by the state of the infrastructure. Our streets, highways, and mass transportation systems are precisely what make it possible to build and live in our society. Our lives and livelihoods depend on them. They are thus unavoidably a vital public good. The problem is, as the author said, the issue of their upkeep makes voters yawn. But I would argue that the reason it does so is the fault of our congressmen and political leaders over the last 30 years, Democrats and Republicans alike, who have failed to make it their responsibility to keep it on the public agenda. Why? Because it translates into higher taxes and lost elections....
 Lee Bartkowski, Long Beach, Calif.: Youll recall that Ross Perot suggested a 0.50 per gallon infrastructure tax during his campaign, and you know how much traction that got. I dont know the answer, but state and federal fuel taxes are already earmarked for highways. I like the idea of tolls bridges, freeways, etc. you pay as you go. I think until the involvement in Iraq is concluded, infrastructure will be a tough sell. Then a public service announcement blitz can begin citing the necessity to take care of ourselves for a while. Messages like, Wouldnt it be nice if the U.S. had roads and bridges as nice as those in France?
 Nicholas Kulish responds: I had forgotten about Mr. Perots proposal. We would certainly be in a lot better shape if something like that had gone through, but Im not sure middle-class commuters would have let Congress pass it. But Perot at least would have taken it to the voters and tried to explain it to them in plain, frank language. Thats what we need right now. Infrastructure was getting a lot more attention in the early 1990s than it does now. Sadly its still off the radar for most people.
 Diana Collins, Charlotte, N.C.: Yes I agree we need to make a lot of investments in our infrastructure, but it will never happen. People cant see beyond the end of their own nose these days. And if a number of people could see the benefit of investment in infrastructure, the Republicans are always there to shoot down anything that would benefit the country.
 They only like projects that are sure to bankrupt the nation, like a good old war we cant win! This country will crumble, and it will be left behind in every sense. Get used to the idea, and blame the cheapskates.
 Lawrence Light, Mission Viejo, Calif.: Thus far, the current administration has siphoned off the monies required to repair our infrastructure by spending on the Iraq war, agreeing to vast amounts of defense spending, creating an environment in which oil prices can rise as high as the oil companies would like, creating tax breaks for a very small segment of the population that must be made up by the rest if any money is to be raised. Sure, your editorial piece says it nicely but I can see no way that the pigs who have been so accustomed to using the government trough will ever give up such a lucrative conduit for this kind of money. Perhaps when the oceans rise six to twelve inches or a military draft is instituted or oil hits $200 a barrel will any action be taken and, by then, it may be too late.
 David J. Andrews, New York.: There is no hope of fixing Americas broken infrastructure as long as we are embracing the tax-cut and make war policies of the Bush administration. We really cant have it both ways costly tax cuts for the rich, make-believe wars on terrorism and unbelievable graft and corruption all add up to one inescapable conclusion: America will be left to disintegrate while the rich get richer and the world becomes more hostile to what we used to think of as American values. We really are the dumbest people on Earth.
 Nicholas Kulish responds: I wish the money we have spent and are going to spend on the Iraq war had been used instead on American infrastructure but Im not so sure that would have happened. Its just as likely that the difference would have gone toward repealing the estate tax or missile defense. If anything is going to happen on this issue though I think its going to have to be approached in a nonpartisan manner. The business community could be a strong voice and one that Republicans would listen to in favor of improving our physical network. A strong, productive country should resonate with voters and interest groups from both parties, with the exception of the drown-government-in-the-bathtub crowd.
 J. Kelly Conklin, Glen Ridge, N.J.: There is one important issue unmentioned in Nicholas Kulishs piece. Who will do the work? Who will put up the forms, pour the concrete, run the pipe and the wire? Who will form the steel and run the track? In the future advocated by our national leaders, they will have to be imported. The guest worker program our president is proposing is no accident it is a necessity.
 In a recent Times Magazine article about the re-emergence of nuclear power, it was mentioned in passing that we lack the capacity in this country to build the huge steel vessels required for a nuclear reactor. The point being that, that inadequate capacity could be an impediment to expanding our nuclear power generating capacity. You think?
 Despite the obvious need for skilled, well-trained and motivated workers to do the sweaty, dirty and physically demanding work that road construction, tunnel digging and reactor building require, we as a nation do less with every passing year to prepare and encourage that work force to develop. Only those left behind need apply; the smart and able are off to college. ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); CITIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); NEGLIGENCE (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



483 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Bank Is Buying Some Bank of America Branches

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
The China Construction Bank, one of China's four main state-controlled banks, agreed on Thursday to buy the retail banking operations in Hong Kong and Macao of the Bank of America for $1.25 billion. 
 It was the first time a big Chinese bank had bought such significant operations from an American bank.
American banks have been buying stakes in Chinese banks in the last year, starting with the Bank of America's $3 billion acquisition in June 2005 of a 9 percent stake in the China Construction Bank. 
 Chinese institutions have also been looking for their own acquisitions outside mainland China, partly to generate foreign currency earnings and partly to limit their exposure to sharp moves in the value of China's currency against the dollar.
 The sale marks another big step in the transformation of the Bank of America's strategy in China, from going it alone to becoming a close partner of the China Construction Bank. As part of its purchase last year, Bank of America agreed not to compete on its own in mainland China.
 The operations changing hands in Thursday's deal are 14 branches in Hong Kong and 3 in Macao. The branches have assets of $949 million and 1.3 percent of the bank loan market in Hong Kong. 
 The price tag is a lower multiple of book net assets than had been seen in other recent Hong Kong bank deals. But Bank of America had injected extra capital into the operations here as part of a previous strategy to use them as a base for penetrating the mainland market.
 Under the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement, a trade pact by mainland China and Hong Kong in June 2003, Hong Kong-based banks meeting certain capitalization requirements have been allowed earlier access to the mainland market than banks based elsewhere. 
 Britain returned Hong Kong to China in 1997, but Hong Kong remains a separate customs area from the mainland and is a separate member of the World Trade Organization.
 Bank of America (Asia), the division being sold to China Construction Bank, started as the Bank of Canton, one of Hong Kong's oldest banks. Security Pacific National Bank, a California financial institution, bought 69 percent of the Bank of Canton in 1971 and the rest of the bank in 1984. Security Pacific then merged with Bank of America in 1992. 
 Morgan Stanley and the China International Capital Corporation advised China Construction Bank. 
 Bank of America, which has its own investment bankers, did not retain outside advisers.
 China Construction Bank said the deal was to be completed by the end of this year, assuming that regulators in Hong Kong and Beijing gave their approval, which was likely given that the bank is under the Chinese government's control.


GRAPHIC: Photo: This bank office in downtown Hong Kong is one of 14 branches in Hong Kong and 3 in Macao being sold by Bank of America. (Photo by Richard A. Brooks/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); U S BANCORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: China Construction Bank; Bank of America

TICKER: 0939 (HKSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (52%); USB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); MACAO (93%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Hong Kong; Macao

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



484 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. APPROVES BROADER ACCESS TO NEXT-DAY PILL

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration on Thursday approved over-the-counter sales of the morning-after contraceptive pill to women 18 and older, resolving one of the most contentious issues in the agency's 100-year history.
 Nationwide over-the-counter sales of the drug, Plan B, are expected to start by the end of the year. It will be sold in pharmacies and health clinics only, and buyers must show proof of age. Anyone under age 18 will still need a prescription. Men may also buy Plan B for a partner.
The prescription drug now sells for $25 to $40 per two-pill dose, but the manufacturer, Barr Pharmaceuticals of Woodcliff Park, N.J., said the price could change. 
 The agency's decision, which took three years and spanned the terms of three F.D.A. commissioners, did little to dampen what has became a central part of the nation's debate on abortion. Abortion rights advocates argue that the wide availability of Plan B may reduce abortions; abortion opponents assert that Plan B will cause them. 
 Abortion rights advocates hailed the F.D.A.'s decision on Thursday, although many bemoaned the age restriction.
 ''We are pleased that a common sense, common ground agenda for reducing unintended pregnancy and the need for abortion finally won out,'' said Kirsten Moore, president of the Reproductive Health Technologies Project in Washington.
 Abortion opponents threatened political retribution, however, and were displeased when President Bush backed the agency's decision.
 ''Let there be no mistake about it,'' said the Rev. Thomas J. Euteneuer, president of Human Life International, an anti-abortion group based in Virginia. ''Today's decision lies at the feet of President Bush and has created a lasting rift with the Catholic faithful who comprise a large part of his support base.'' 
 In a briefing on Monday, Mr. Bush was asked whether he supported the intention by Andrew C. von Eschenbach, acting commissioner of the F.D.A., to approve over-the-counter sales of Plan B.
 ''I support Andy's decision,'' he replied, a rare moment when a president addressed an application pending before the drug agency.
 Barr Pharmaceuticals said that sales of Plan B would barely register on its balance sheet and that it had no plans to advertise the drug on television or radio. [BusinessDay, Page C1.]
 Dr. von Eschenbach wrote that he had decided that 18 was the appropriate cut-off age because pharmacies already used it for restricted nicotine and cold medicines sales.
 ''This approach builds on well-established state and private-sector infrastructures to restrict certain products to consumers 18 and older,'' Dr. von Eschenbach wrote in a memorandum. 
 His predecessor, Dr. Lester M. Crawford, said last year that science supported giving over-the-counter access of the drug to women at 17, but that he could not figure out how to ensure that such an age restriction was enforced. 
 The agency has now decided that it will rely on Barr to enforce the rules. The company's chairman, Bruce Downey, said in an interview that the company would depend on pharmacists to abide by the restrictions.
 Barr will not sell the pills to gasoline stations or convenience stores, and it will conduct surveys to measure adherence, Mr. Downey said.
 The drug agency decided that younger women would benefit by seeing a doctor before having access to Plan B. It also determined that Barr had failed to prove that young women would understand how to use the drug as well as older women. 
 The F.D.A.'s approval was widely expected and led to a flood of prepared press releases from Capitol Hill offices, advocacy and medical groups. 
 ''This long overdue decision is a victory for women's health and for the American people who have been waiting for years for the F.D.A. to act,'' Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, said in a statement. 
 Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma and a family practice doctor, denounced the decision, saying, ''Exposing women to the high-dose hormones in Plan B without the guidance of a physician will put them at risk.'' 
 Studies suggest that both the anti-abortion groups and abortion rights advocates are wrong in their predictions of the pill's effect on the number of abortions performed each year and on the rate of sexually transmitted diseases. Couples in the United States have so much unprotected sex -- half of all pregnancies are unplanned -- that even if the pills were passed out like aspirin, they would be unlikely to cause a major change in abortion and disease rates.
 ''Emergency contraceptives don't work if, like condoms, they're left in the drawer,'' said Dr. James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University. ''And studies show that even if women have the pills on hand, the drawer is where they remain.''
 Still, Dr. Tina Raine, associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of California, San Francisco, said that over-the-counter access to Plan B would help some women avoid becoming pregnant.
 ''Unintended pregnancy rates have been dropping over the last decade,'' Dr. Raine said. ''Lots of things have contributed to that, and this will, too.'' 
 Plan B's effect on the F.D.A. and its image may well overshadow its public health impact. 
 The agency has regulatory authority over a quarter of the United States economy. Despite this huge portfolio, three commissioners devoted countless hours to considering whether to switch Plan B. a small-selling, decades-old medicine, to over-the-counter status.
 ''I cannot recall any other issue in my 45 years of watching F.D.A. that has garnered this much attention at all levels of government,'' said Peter Barton Hutt, a former general counsel for the agency who now teaches drug law at Harvard.
 The director of the Office of Women's Health at the drug agency resigned last year to protest what she said was the abortion politics behind the delay in approving Plan B. An investigation by the Government Accountability Office concluded that top agency officials had decided to reject the initial Plan B application months before a scientific review was complete.
 Sworn depositions taken by lawyers from the Center for Reproductive Rights, a legal advocacy organization, show that some of the agency's staff members were convinced that no amount of scientific evidence would have persuaded the F.D.A.'s political appointees to approve the application.
 Dr. John Jenkins, director of the Office of New Drugs at the agency, said in a deposition that his boss, Dr. Steven Galson, told him ''that he felt he didn't have a choice'' but to reject the application, according to transcripts provided to The New York Times. 
 ''And he characterized that in a sense that he wasn't sure that he would be allowed to remain as center director if he didn't agree with the action,'' Dr. Jenkins said. Dr. Galson is director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the F.D.A. 
 Dr. Florence Houn, director of the office that evaluated the Plan B application, said that she was told by Dr. Janet Woodcock, a deputy commissioner at the agency, that a rejection was necessary ''to appease the administration's constituents, and then later this could be approved,'' according to the transcripts.
 Drs. Galson and Woodcock said in their own depositions and public statements that scientific considerations drove their decisions. In an interview, Dr. Galson refused to address the apparent inconsistencies.
 ''I'm extremely happy to put this phase of the decision-making process behind me and to move on to other priorities,'' Dr. Galson said.
 But the issue may not go away. 
 Barr will study Plan B's use in young adolescents in hopes of getting the agency's age restrictions lifted, Mr. Downey said.
 ''In my mind,'' he said, ''if we go back and have an adequate study that includes the younger group, the basis for any age restriction goes away.'' 
 Last year, Senators Clinton and Murray placed a legislative hold on Dr. Crawford's nomination as commissioner to pressure the agency to make a decision on Plan B. They lifted their hold after Health and Human Services Secretary Michael O. Leavitt promised a decision by Sept. 1 of that year. Dr. Crawford was then confirmed, but the agency announced yet another delay in a decision on Plan B. 
 When Dr. Crawford unexpectedly resigned weeks later, the two senators refused to let Dr. von Eschenbach's nomination as commissioner advance without a Plan B decision. On Thursday, they said that they would lift their hold.
 Plan B is made from a synthetic hormone found in regular oral contraceptives. There are two pills, the first of which should be taken within 72 hours of unprotected sex and the second 12 hours later. Like regular contraceptive pills, Plan B generally acts by preventing ovulation or fertilization, according to the F.D.A.
 Plan B may in rare circumstances prevent a fertilized egg from becoming implanted, something abortion opponents decry. But regular oral contraceptives do that, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); CONTRACEPTION (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); PHARMACIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); COMMON COLD (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%) Birth Control and Family Planning; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Plan B (Contraceptive); Abortion; Birth Control and Family Planning

COMPANY: BARR PHARMACEUTICALS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Food and Drug Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ANDREW VON ESCHENBACH (78%) Gardiner Harris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006



485 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Rising Production Costs Join the List of What China Exports 

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Donald Greenlees contributed reporting from Hong Kong for this article.; International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
During 20 years in the toy business, Anthony Temple has reveled in the bounty of cheap stuffed animals, coffee mugs and figurines on sale from China. But this year, his buying trip for his London-based company, Rainbow Designs, resulted in a rude awakening.
 Traveling through the Pearl River delta north of Hong Kong, Mr. Temple found that cost increases -- for raw materials, but above all for labor -- dominated every discussion he had with suppliers.
Far from being keen to underbid each other, Chinese companies talked so consistently about marking up their prices 5 percent to 10 percent that Mr. Temple, whose company owns the British distribution rights to such cuddly creatures as Paddington Bear and Jemima Puddle-Duck, became convinced that these were not simply negotiating tactics.
 ''When I went over there, I was under the belief that China is a bottomless pit of cheap product,'' Mr. Temple said. ''When I left, I was not.'' 
 As the Chinese economy races forward, signs are multiplying that the Asian giant is beginning to slow its export of something dear to the hearts of many consumers in developed countries: ever cheaper products.
 For at least a decade, China has provided a boost to a welcome tailwind for inflation-fighting central banks in Europe and the United States by consistently cutting prices on a wide variety of goods, helping counterbalance the upward drift of overall consumer price levels.
 At Jackson Hole, Wyo., the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, opened a conference of central bankers yesterday with a speech that noted how the emergence of China as an export powerhouse has altered the world economy in less than 30 years. [Page C3.] 
 China's role in global disinflation -- as the phenomenon is known to economists and central bankers -- is not going to disappear. But a few recent numbers, along with anecdotal evidence, suggest that China's contribution to low prices globally may be ebbing.
 This spring, the European Central Bank vowed to step up research into what has been called the ''China effect.'' Top officials at the Federal Reserve have also begun speaking out about it. And the debate over how much China has contributed to taming global inflation is a central topic at the annual Jackson Hole gathering of the world's leading central bankers and academic economists. 
 In the United States, data shows that Chinese import prices, which have fallen since data collection began in 2003, are leveling off, as are prices from other low-cost emerging markets.
 The price of Chinese goods at the factory gates has leapt upward in the last four months, according to the purchasing managers' survey taken by the London-based NTC Research. Its index was a tad below 50 -- a level indicating stable prices -- in March but now stands at 56, a steep increase by the standards of a survey that usually moves in fractional increments.
 For years now, China's galloping economy has been sending ripples through the global economy -- as Chinese demand has raised prices for critical commodities like oil and copper and Chinese buying of United States Treasury securities has helped keep interest rates low. 
 And not all economists buy the overall notion that Chinese prices will soon pump up inflation rates in the industrialized world and force central bankers to press harder on the brakes. 
 Skeptics about the ''China effect'' tend to focus on the ability of China and its customers to adapt.
 As Chinese costs increase, foreign investors can set up shop in places like India and Bangladesh, which lag behind China as manufacturing centers. 
 Other companies will press into China's vast interior to escape rising labor costs on the coast.
 ''The global labor arbitrage is alive and well,'' said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. ''It still pays very much to relocate production and employment to China to keep your labor costs down.''
 The cheap clothes and toys that consumers around the world have purchased with seeming abandon have tempered prices, even depressing them over the years. Now, as Chinese makers move to increase their prices in response to higher costs, some central bankers worry that this global salve will disappear.
 ''Even in China, with its growing manufacturing base and large pool of labor, some indicators are showing upward pressures on export prices,'' Mervyn A. King, the governor of the Bank of England, said in a recent speech. ''And, in turn, that is raising our import prices, over and above the increases resulting from higher energy costs.''
 The prospect of higher prices for finished consumer goods has become an obsession of sorts in the supply-chain business, according to interviews with retailers, importers, independent consultants and trade associations in Europe and the United States.
 ''We may well be reaching a situation where prices of both commodities and manufactured goods will go up,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''That's not pleasant at all.''
 China's natural development has brought it to this point, economists said. Cheap labor and easy access to a first-class port in Hong Kong allowed China to flood the world with inexpensive goods. 
 But as labor shortages develop, Chinese workers are starting to demand more money, adding to cost pressures from more expensive commodities and creating the classic conditions for rising export prices.
 ''Raw materials are going up; the price of oil is going up; wages are going up,'' said Peter Keller, managing director of the Merton Company, a plastic toy manufacturer based in Hong Kong. ''It is true that costs in China are rising and, where possible, cost increases are passed on.''
 Merton is facing rapid increases in wages at its plant in Guangdong Province, in China's booming manufacturing heartland in the Pearl River Delta. On Sept. 1, the minimum wage is expected to increase by about 20 percent, to 780 yuan ($98) a month, in the province.
 Intense competition is still squeezing profit margins, but Mr. Keller estimated prices for products made under new contracts would be 5 percent to 10 percent higher as a result of the higher wages and raw material bills.
 The good news for consumers is that rising costs in China are not yet feeding into higher prices on store shelves, though they are probably chipping away at the profits of importers and retailers, economists said.
 H&M, the giant Swedish clothing retailer, finds itself grappling with how to keep prices down as its suppliers demand more, said Nils Vinge, its director of investor relations.
 Some strategies, like shifting production to low-wage Bangladesh or Turkey, with cheaper transport costs to Europe, can reduce the impact, though not forever.
 ''In the long run, this makes its way to the consumer,'' Mr. Vinge said. ''In the short run, it does not.''
 Data suggests that Europe and the United States are, like H&M, somewhere between the short and long runs. Inflation has hovered slightly above 2 percent for most of this decade in the 12 nations that use the euro as currency, but has been rising lately. 
 It was at an annual rate of 4.8 percent last month in the United States.
 In Britain, the Bank of England's most recent inflation report notes that even after stripping out volatile energy and metal prices, inflation is running at an annual rate of 5 percent. It also highlighted a turnaround in prices of British imports since 2004.
 The European Central Bank pointed to a similar trend in the euro countries in its latest monthly report.
 The sensitivity to higher price levels has focused more scrutiny on China. Indeed, the European Central Bank also noted that low-cost countries like China helped reduce the inflation rate for imported goods by two percentage points yearly from 1996 to 2005 for the euro nations. 
 Mr. Temple, the toy buyer, said he had managed to largely contain cost increases from China through a mix of tough negotiating and lower profits. But soon enough, the retailers he supplies, like W. H. Smith, Harrods and Selfridges, will find themselves under intense pressure to raise prices, he said. 
 ''These prices have to be passed down to the retail chain next year,'' Mr. Temple said. ''Prices have to go up.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Temple buys Chinese products for Rainbow Designs. (Photo by Mark Chilvers for The International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRICE CUTTING (70%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (63%) International Trade and World Market; Production; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (51%) Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) WYOMING, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



486 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: In Housing as in Most Things: What's Up the Most, Falls the Most 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IF you raise prices enough, people will stop buying.
 That may not impress economists as a new thought, but it accurately describes the current United States home market, where home buyers are suddenly more reluctant to put down their money, and the supply of homes for sale has reached record levels. 
The housing boom that now appears to have ended was most pronounced in a handful of areas largely concentrated on the East and West Coasts, while people in the Midwest wondered what all the excitement was about. Now it is the areas that did the best that are seeing the most buyer resistance.
 In three states, the rate of home sales in the second quarter of this year fell by more than a quarter from a year earlier. All are in warm-weather areas, all were viewed as likely to gain population as baby boomers retired and all enjoyed rapid price rises in the first half of the current decade, in part because of speculation by investors seeking quick profits. They are California, Florida and Arizona.
 While those states had the largest decline in sales rates, the six other states along with the District of Columbia that led the country in sales price increases early in the decade are now also experiencing sales declines more rapid than those in the nation as a whole. They include Hawaii and Nevada, two other areas that had intrigued investors, as well as the region that benefited from the growth of the federal government in this decade: Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia.
 At the other end of the list are the 10 states with the smallest home price gains from 2000 to 2005. In six of them the pace of sales has risen this year, notwithstanding the national trend, and another three have had declines that are smaller than the national average.
 The best of those 10 is Texas, where the pace of sales in the second quarter of 2006 was up 11 percent from a year earlier, and at a record high. Texas has benefited from a trend that may have hurt home sales in most areas: rising oil prices. 
 The state where higher oil prices are perhaps the worst news is Michigan, home of an automobile industry that bet on the continued growth of sales of sport utility vehicles. Home prices did not rise much there early in the decade, but now the pace of sales is falling at a double-digit rate, worse than in the rest of the country. 
 Put another way, the pace of home sales in Michigan is almost exactly where it was in late 1997, while the national sales rate is still 46 percent above the figure then. In Texas, the gain over that period is 83 percent. Over that same period, the price of a barrel of crude oil has soared to $72 from $18.
 During the first part of this decade, it was the so-called blue states, the ones that elect Democrats, that were more likely to see big home price increases. If those that rose the most then are now to suffer the most, it will be the blue states that do the worst in the housing downturn.
 Among the states where home prices rose more than the national average from 2000 to 2005, John Kerry won 155 electoral votes in 2004, compared with just 55 for President Bush. But among states where home prices rose less than the national average, Mr. Bush gained 231 electoral votes to just 97 for Mr. Kerry.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Searching for Buyers''The supply of single-family homes for sale in the United States reached a record 3.8 million in July, up 37 percent from a year earlier, as sales have also slowed. The biggest declines in sales have come in the states where prices had risen the most. In all the 10 states with the biggest price gains from 2000 to 2005, sales of existing homes have fallen more rapidly than they have in the nation as a whole. In 9 of the 10 with the smallest price gains, recent sales trends were better than the national average.Graph tracks single-family homes for sale (both existing homes and new homes) since 1990.Top 10 states in house price appreciation, 2000-'05District of ColumbiaPRICE CHANGE: +127.0%ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 15.6%CaliforniaPRICE CHANGE: +117.3ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 25.3HawaiiPRICE CHANGE: +109.2ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 18.0FloridaPRICE CHANGE: +107.2ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 26.7NevadaPRICE CHANGE: +103.6ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 23.5MarylandPRICE CHANGE: +99.0ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 11.5Rhode IslandPRICE CHANGE: +98.8ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 11.7ArizonaPRICE CHANGE: +89.4ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 26.9New JerseyPRICE CHANGE: +85.9ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 16.3VirginiaPRICE CHANGE: +83.2ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 23.9U.S. averagePRICE CHANGE: +57.7%ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 7.0%Bottom 10 states in house price appreciation, 2000-'05TennesseePRICE CHANGE: +27.2%ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +6.5%IowaPRICE CHANGE: +26.5ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +3.8KansasPRICE CHANGE: +26.0ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: 1.8KentuckyPRICE CHANGE: +25.9ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +1.2MississippiPRICE CHANGE: +25.7ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +0.8TexasPRICE CHANGE: +23.6ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +11.3MichiganPRICE CHANGE: +23.5ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: -14.6NebraskaPRICE CHANGE: +22.6ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: -5.3OhioPRICE CHANGE: +21.9ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: -1.5IndianaPRICE CHANGE: +20.6ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXISTING-HOME SALES: +4.8Notes: Statistics on homes available for sale are not seasonally adjusted. Change in home prices is based on index for 4th quarter of 2005 compared with index for 4th quarter of 2000. Change in sales pace of existing homes is based on seasonally adjusted annual rate for second quarter of 2006, compared with rate in second quarter of 2005.(Sources by National Association of Realtors (existing-home statistics)
Census Bureau [new homes for sale]
 Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight [price changes], all via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TRENDS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) California; Florida; Arizona

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



487 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Law Put to Unusual Use in Hezbollah TV Case, Some Say

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM ; John Holl contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors who charged a man on Thursday with providing Hezbollah television access in New York made unusual use of a law more often employed to bar financial contributions to terrorist groups, legal experts said yesterday.
 The broadly defined statute, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, is also used frequently to block the importation of goods and services that would directly support terrorist operations.
The law, which went into effect in 1977, was meant to put legal teeth in international trade embargoes with other nations, but once it was amended by the Patriot Act after 9/11, the government began to use it far more frequently against particular groups and individuals. 
 The use of the law, however, to focus on television broadcasts seemed to fall under an exemption laid out in a 1988 amendment to the act, several experts said, and it raised concerns among civil libertarians and some constitutional scholars about limiting the free marketplace of ideas.
 The exemption covers publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact discs, CD-ROM's, art works and newswire feeds.
 ''One person's news is another's propaganda,'' said Rod Smolla, the dean of the University of Richmond Law School and a First Amendment expert. ''It runs counter to all of our First Amendment traditions to ban the free flow of news and information across borders, yet at the same time all nations have historically reserved the right to ban the importation of propaganda from a hostile nation.''
 Professor Smolla also said that so far as he knew, this was the first use of the law to block information, as such.
 The defendant, Javed Iqbal, a Pakistani who, according to his lawyer, has been in this country for more than 20 years, was charged with conspiring to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, by offering to provide the Hezbollah station, Al Manar, to a confidential informant.
 Al Manar -- the Beacon, in Arabic -- was designated a global terrorist entity by the Treasury Department in March; Hezbollah itself was designated a foreign terrorist organization by the State Department in 1997.
 Bail for Mr. Iqbal was set at $250,000 on Thursday by Gabriel W. Gorenstein, a federal magistrate judge, and Mr. Iqbal's lawyer, Mustapha Ndanusa, said he hoped to post a bond on Monday.
 A spokeswoman for Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan whose office filed the case, declined to comment yesterday.
 A Justice Department official in Washington could not provide figures for the number of cases brought under the law nor say whether any others had focused on the dissemination of satellite broadcasts or information. The official did not disagree with a characterization of the use of the law in this case as unusual.
 Critics took a far harsher view. David D. Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who frequently criticizes the Justice Department and is challenging several aspects of the act in federal court in California, said the case against Mr. Iqbal combined what he called tactics of the McCarthy era -- punishment of speech, and guilt by association. 
 ''Mr. Iqbal is being penalized for doing nothing more than facilitating speech, and is being punished not because the speech itself is harmful, but because it is associated with Hezbollah,'' he said.
 Prosecutors have suggested that they may file more serious charges of material support for terrorism; it is not known whether they have more damaging evidence against Mr. Iqbal that they have not disclosed.
 Mr. Iqbal's lawyer seemed dismissive of the charges, nonetheless. ''I'm not even sure really how to characterize the case,'' he said. ''I was a little bit dumbfounded just reading the complaint itself.''
 The investigation into the case began in February when a confidential informant told the authorities that Mr. Iqbal was selling access to Al Manar, before the station was designated as a terrorist entity, according to court papers. 
 Yesterday, the Staten Island home where Mr. Iqbal lives with his wife and four children -- with eight satellite dishes in the backyard -- was quiet, and neighbors had little to say about the entrepreneur.
 But a lawyer for a former business associate of Mr. Iqbal was less taciturn.
 That lawyer, Cary Sternback, represents E2V Technology, which he said is suing Mr. Iqbal and his firm charging that they failed to pay for $30,000 worth of satellite equipment, which ''mysteriously ended up attached to his satellite transmitter,'' an accusation Mr. Iqbal's lawyer denied. 
 Mr. Sternback said, ''My take on him is he's not a terrorist, he's an opportunist.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A federal pretrial worker visited the Staten Island home of Javed Iqbal, whose bail was set at $250,000. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); HEZBOLLAH (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MAGISTRATES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); JUDGES (63%) Terrorism; Television; Law and Legislation ; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (55%) Hezbollah (Terrorist Orgn); Al Manar (Television Station)

PERSON: William K Rashbaum; John Holl; Javed (Suspect) Iqbal

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



488 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Indictment Says State Senator Used Funds Of a Nonprofit

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Efrain Gonzalez Jr., one of the longest-serving Hispanic members of the State Senate, was indicted yesterday on federal charges of mail fraud, accused of using $37,000 from a nonprofit organization for personal expenses, including Yankees tickets and membership fees at a vacation club in the Dominican Republic. 
 Senator Gonzalez, 58, who represents portions of the Bronx, surrendered to federal authorities yesterday morning and was released several hours later after posting $25,000 bail. 
At a brief afternoon appearance in Federal District Court in Manhattan, Mr. Gonzalez did not enter a plea. But one of his lawyers, Kim Richman, said afterward that he intended to plead not guilty. 
 Outside court, the senator said, ''I'm going to fight for my constituents like I'm going to fight this case.'' 
 When asked if he intended to continue serving in the Senate, he responded, ''Sure.'' 
 Mr. Gonzalez, a Democrat first elected in 1989, is the latest in a series of state lawmakers from New York City to be indicted in recent years, including Assemblywoman Gloria Davis of the Bronx, who resigned after pleading guilty in 2003 to bribery, and Senator Guy J. Velella of the Bronx, who resigned and pleaded guilty in 2004 to taking bribes. 
 In July, Assemblywoman Diane Gordon, who represents parts of Brooklyn, was indicted on charges of conspiracy and bribery. The authorities said she had helped a developer obtain a vacant tract of city-owned land and asked him to build her a $500,000 house in exchange. 
 In 2004, Mr. Gonzalez was re-elected to the Senate despite allegations that had surfaced about improprieties involving the West Bronx Neighborhood Association Inc., a nonprofit he founded that is on the Grand Concourse in the same building as his Bronx Senate office. 
 The indictment said that from about November 2000 through this May, Mr. Gonzalez sought to defraud the nonprofit by taking its funds for his own use. As part of the scheme, the indictment said, the senator used the United States postal system to mail checks from the nonprofit to credit card companies and to private vendors. 
 Mr. Gonzalez spent $37,412 meant for the nonprofit on himself, according to the indictment. It says the money paid for rent on homes in Monroe, N.Y., and in the Dominican Republic; tickets to Yankees games; membership dues for a Dominican Republic vacation club; clothing; and college tuition. 
 ''Misuse of not-for-profit funds by anyone -- public servant or not -- is a serious breach of trust,'' Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement yesterday. ''Those with authority over such funds have a special responsibility to use them only for their intended purposes.'' 
 If convicted, Mr. Gonzalez could be sentenced to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
 He is up for re-election this fall but has no opponent in next month's Democratic primary. In the November general election, he is being challenged by a little-known Conservative Party candidate, Ernest Kebreau. There is no Republican candidate. 
 In the 2004 election, Mr. Gonzalez received about 46,000 votes in his heavily Democratic district, compared with about 5,000 for a candidate who ran on the Republican and Conservative lines.
 An investigation by the City Department of Investigation continues, said Emily Gest, a spokeswoman for the agency. Its inquiry started during the course of an unrelated investigation in which the agency discovered that public funds were being transferred to the nonprofit organization, the department said in a statement.
 City investigators examined records, including canceled checks, bills and invoices from the West Bronx Neighborhood Association, and determined that some of the organization's money was being used to pay Mr. Gonzalez's personal expenses, according to the statement. 
 Federal investigators also questioned several people associated with the West Bronx Neighborhood Association or with the senator. 
 While it was Mr. Gonzalez who seemed to pique their interest, many people wondered whether any indictments might lead to others and whether a substantial amount of public money had disappeared. 
 ''The question is whether they targeted him and then tried to find the evidence later,'' said Murray Richman, one of the senator's lawyers.
 Officials said a superseding indictment with additional charges was expected, though that remained far from clear.
 Mr. Gonzalez, who was born in Puerto Rico, was elected to the State Senate in a special election in 1989 and is one of New York City's most senior members in the Legislature. 
 Mr. Gonzalez has typically shunned the spotlight, and aides say he is more comfortable meeting people in informal settings than he is making speeches. 
 He has set up his own cigar company, using tobacco from the Dominican Republic, where it is grown from Cuban seeds. The company has yet to begin full-scale operations, but Mr. Gonzalez sometimes hands out cigars as he works a room.
 He has advised the government of the Dominican Republic, where his wife lives, on housing issues. 
 After Fidel Castro's illness was announced in Cuba earlier this month, Mr. Gonzalez announced that he would sit on a task force on economic development there and would encourage fair trade.
 Though he has become an influential member of the Bronx Democratic Party, he has crossed party lines in the past, endorsing two Republicans, Alfonse M. D'Amato and Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 Last year, Mr. Gonzalez had a tumor removed from his kidney, an operation from which he continues to recover.
 One of his four children, Carlos Gonzalez, 38, said yesterday that he believed that his father's criticism of the Bush administration was behind the federal indictment, as well as his father's objections to the recent merger of the Spanish-language Univision Communications and the Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation. 
 ''They can come out with 150 more counts,'' the younger Mr. Gonzalez said. ''None of it is worthy to me, because I know that, I smell the motivation. 
 ''He will be fine, and the family is totally aligned behind Gonzalez, and we have full faith that he will not only continue a progressive Hispanic agenda, but that he will be acquitted of any and all charges, and that is the bottom line.''
 He said his father would not engage in illicit activity. 
 ''I live with him,'' Carlos Gonzalez said. ''He does not live lavishly; he is not that type of person. He is not. 
 ''He cares for his family, he cares for his community, and more importantly he lives for his community, and that is a sacrifice that his children understand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INDICTMENTS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); BRIBERY (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); TUITION FEES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); ETHICS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BAIL (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) Mail Frauds; Embezzlement; Ethics; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

PERSON: Al Baker; Timothy Williams; Colin Moynihan; Efrain Jr (Sen) Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



489 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Lighting Up In Amsterdam

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM 

 BODY:
Arjan Roskam, the creator of the award-winning marijuana blend named ''Arjan's Haze,'' has dozens of pictures of celebrity visitors on the wall of his coffee shop in Amsterdam. He's got Eminem, Lenny Kravitz, Alicia Keys, Mike Tyson -- but so far, unfortunately, not a single White House drug czar.
 The czars have preferred to criticize from afar. In the past, they've called Dutch drug policy ''an unmitigated disaster,'' bemoaning Amsterdam's ''stoned zombies'' and its streets cluttered with ''junkies.'' Anti-pot passion has only increased in the Bush administration, which has made it a priority to combat marijuana. 
More than half a million Americans are arrested annually for possessing it. The Bush administration can't even abide it being used for medical purposes by the terminally ill. Why risk having any of it fall into the hands of young people who could turn into potheads, crack addicts and junkies?
 But if America's drug warriors came here, they would learn something even if they didn't sample any of the dozens of varieties of marijuana sold legally in specially licensed coffee shops. They could see that the patrons puffing on joints generally don't look any more zombielike than the crowd at an American bar -- or, for that matter, a Congressional subcommittee listening to a lecture on the evils of marijuana. 
 And if they talked to Peter Cohen, a Dutch researcher who has been studying drug use for a quarter-century, they would discover something even more disorienting. Even though marijuana has been widely available since the 1970's, enough to corrupt a couple of generations, the Netherlands has not succumbed to reefer madness. 
 The Dutch generally use drugs less than Americans do, according to national surveys in both countries (and these surveys might understate Americans' drug usage, since respondents are less likely to admit illegal behavior). More Americans than Dutch reported having tried marijuana, cocaine and heroin. Among teenagers who'd tried marijuana, Americans were more likely to be regular users. 
 In a comparison of Amsterdam with another liberal port city, San Francisco, Cohen and other researchers found that people in San Francisco were nearly twice as likely to have tried marijuana. Cohen isn't sure exactly what cultural and economic factors account for the different usage patterns in America and the Netherlands, but he's confident he can rule out one explanation.
 ''Drug policy is irrelevant,'' says Cohen, the former director of the Center for Drug Research at the University of Amsterdam. It's quite logical, he says, to theorize that outlawing drugs would have an impact, but experience shows otherwise, both in America and in some European countries with stricter laws than the Netherlands but no less drug use. 
 The good news about drugs, Cohen says, is that the differences among countries aren't all that important -- levels of addiction are generally low in America as well as in Europe. The bad news is that the occasional drug fad get hyped into a crisis that leads to bad laws.
 ''Prohibition does not reduce drug use, but it does have other impacts,'' he says. ''It takes up an enormous amount of police time and generates large possibilities for criminal income.''
 In the Netherlands, that income goes instead to coffee-shop owners and to the government, which exacts heavy taxes. It also imposes strict regulations on what goes on in the coffee shop, including who can be served (no minors) and how much can be sold (five grams to a customer). Any unruly behavior or public disturbances can quickly close down a shop. 
 To avoid problems at the Green House, Roskam has closed-circuit cameras and a staff that urges novices to stick with small doses, and to protect their lungs by taking hits from a vaporizer. Unlike street buyers in America, customers know exactly what strength they're getting, which is especially useful for the hundreds of people with multiple sclerosis and other ailments who use his marijuana medicinally.
 Roskam sneers at the street products in the United States, which he considers overpriced and badly blended. But he acknowledges there's one feature in the American market he can't compete with.
 ''Drugs are just less interesting here,'' he said. ''One of my best friends here never smoked cannabis, never wanted to even try my products. Then when she was 32 she went to America on holiday and smoked for the first time. I asked her why, and she said: 'It was more fun over there. It was illegal.' '' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); COCAINE (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); HEROIN (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Marijuana; Coffeehouses; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: ALICIA KEYS (57%); JOHN F TIERNEY (56%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (96%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (73%) Amsterdam (Netherlands); Netherlands

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



490 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Europe Agrees to Send 6,900 Troops Into Lebanon
After a week of confusion and missteps, Europe pledged to add up to 6,900 troops to the United Nations peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon. But the job of disarming Hezbollah will be left to the Lebanese, if it is done at all. A1

Iraqi Economy Causing Concern 

Violence, corruption and the fallout from decades of government control are driving up the price of almost everything in Iraq, which, coupled with flat wages, are making Iraqis increasingly concerned about the future of the country's economy. A1

No Word on Hostage Journalists
The Hamas-run Palestinian Authority said some progress was being made to secure the release of two kidnapped Western journalists a day before a deadline of midday today. But it was not clear that anyone was in communication with the group that claimed responsibility for the abductions. A7

Jittery Day for Airlines
Several instances of continued jitters in the air after the London bombing alert caused alarm in Britain and the United States, including a passenger jet flying from New York to Ireland that was evacuated and searched after a caller told the police that a liquid explosive had been planted on board. A4

Russia Opposes Iran Sanctions
Russia's defense minister said it was premature to consider punitive actions against Iran despite its refusal so far to suspend its efforts to enrich uranium. A7

Times Researcher May Appeal
Lawyers for a Chinese researcher for The New York Times said they would probably appeal his conviction on a fraud charge but also expressed satisfaction that he was acquitted of a more serious charge, leaking state secrets. A6

Lost Fishermen Return Home
Three fishermen who survived months adrift at sea returned home to Mexico, where some greeted them as heroes but others cast a skeptical eye on their epic story of seamanship and survival. A3

Arrests in Japan Over Exports
Five executives of a precision instruments maker in Japan were arrested on suspicion of illegally exporting equipment to Malaysia that could be used in making nuclear weapons, the police said. A8

OBITUARIES A13

Marie Tharp
An oceanographic cartographer whose work in the 1950's, 60's and 70's helped throw into relief -- literally -- the largely uncharted landscape of the world's ocean floor, she was 86. A13

Vashti McCollum
A mother whose suit to stop religious instruction on school property led to a landmark ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1948 to protect the separation of church and state in education, she was 93. A13

NATIONAL A9-12

FEMA Is Better Prepared, But Not Ready Everywhere
Along the Gulf Coast and in other locations struck by disaster, like New York City, FEMA has made important advances to prepare for the next catastrophe. But in large chunks of the country, far more limited progress has been made, a recent federal assessment concluded. A1

Women in Clergy Find Limits
Whether they come from theologically liberal denominations or conservative ones, black churches or white, women in the clergy still bump against what many call the stained-glass ceiling -- longstanding limits, preferences and prejudices within their denominations. A1

Robbers Target Restaurants
Working in pairs, robbers have hit more than 50 restaurants across the San Fernando Valley, killing one person and terrifying scores of workers and patrons. The criminals have stubbornly foiled police efforts over the last two years. A9

Motions in Ramsey Case
John M. Karr, the former school teacher who faces possible murder charges in the death of 6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey, began fighting back with a flurry of defense motions including a request that the judge bar any DNA testing until a hearing can be held on the matter. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Mayor's Panel on Poverty Narrows Its Focus
Leaders of a mayoral commission charged with working to eradicate poverty in New York are scaling back wider ambitions to instead focus on helping three distinct populations: young children, young adults and the working poor. B1

At Least 6 Are Shot in Queens
At least six people were shot in various neighborhoods across Queens by a gunman who was driving around in a car, apparently firing at people at random, the police said. The victims were mostly hit in their hands, legs and other limbs, the police said. B1

State Senator Indicted
Efrain Gonzalez Jr., one of the longest-serving Latino members of the New York State Senate, was indicted on federal charges of mail fraud, accused of using $37,000 from a nonprofit organization for personal expenses. B1

Religion Journal B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

Nike Splits With Track Coach
Nike ended its contract with the track coach Trevor Graham and stepped into the debate over Graham's role in doping violations by many of his athletes. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Northwest Strike Blocked
A federal judge temporarily blocked a potential strike by flight attendants at Northwest Airlines and urged the company and its workers to resume contract talks. The union representing flight attendants said it would hold off on work stoppages. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: No place for cluster bombs; stem cells without embryo loss; greening up the grass roots; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the hayloft.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B15
Crossword B14
TV Listings B16
Weather A16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); BOMBINGS (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (74%); WRITERS (74%); HAMAS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); ARRESTS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); OCEANOGRAPHY (69%); APPEALS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ACQUITTAL (63%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHURCH & STATE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS INTERIM FORCE IN LEBANON (84%); HEZBOLLAH (58%); HAMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



491 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Rubin Quits As Director At Ford

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley, in Detroit, and Julie Creswell, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Aug. 25 

 BODY:
Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary and currently a Citigroup executive, has stepped down as a director of Ford Motor, clearing the way for his investment bank to play a more significant role as Ford makes major decisions about its restructuring.
 Mr. Rubin, a director and chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup, said in a letter released Friday that he wanted to avoid any potential conflicts that could be raised by his presence on Ford's board, which he joined six years ago. 
It came as Ford's chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., is pondering a wide variety of steps that are aimed at reversing Ford's losses, resizing the company and enabling it to withstand brutal industry competition. 
 Those steps could include finding buyers for luxury brands like Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin. That task could fall to Citigroup as well as another financial adviser, Goldman Sachs, which like Citigroup has a longstanding association with Ford.
 Last month, Mr. Ford hired Kenneth Leet, a former executive with Goldman Sachs and Bank of America, as a strategic adviser to lead the company's review and make recommendations on steps -- like alliances with other auto companies and the sale of its units -- that the company needed to take to restructure..
 People briefed on Ford's activities said the company's future relationship with both Goldman Sachs and Citigroup could be more far-reaching than individual deals had been in the past. 
 Mr. Rubin's resignation came in a letter Thursday to Mr. Ford. In it, he said Citigroup's ''multifaceted relationship with Ford could raise a question whether my relationship with Ford and Citigroup creates an appearance of conflict.'' 
 ''Although no conflict currently exists and while I would have liked to remain involved, I have with great regret concluded that I should resign from the board at this time.'' 
 Mr. Rubin was out of the country Friday and could not be reached. He is the fourth board member to leave Ford this year. Carl Reichardt, a longtime director who served briefly as the chief financial officer under Mr. Ford; Marie-Josee Kravis, an economist and senior fellow at the Hudson Institute; and James Padilla, the company's former president who retired in July, all left the board in May. At that time, Ford reduced its board from 15 to 12 members.
 Mr. Ford said Mr. Rubin, who served as Treasury secretary from 1995 to 1999, ''has been a wise and generous counselor to me and to the company,'' adding that he understood ''Bob's prudent decision to resign as we continue to explore future strategic options.''
 Oscar Suris, a Ford spokesman, said Friday that the company's relationship with Mr. Rubin ''doesn't end today.''
 ''This is merely a move on his part to ensure he's doing the right thing from a corporate governance standpoint.'' 
 His departure is the second instance this year of a major Wall Street figure's leaving an auto company's board. Merrill Lynch's chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, left the General Motors board in February, saying that the increasing time demands at G.M. were becoming difficult to meet in light of his responsibilities at Merrill Lynch, long an investment adviser to G.M. Likewise, Ford has done substantial business with Citigroup through the years, even while Mr. Rubin served on the board, said John Casesa, an industry analyst with Casesa Strategic Advisors. Last year, Citigroup Global Advisers served as a financial adviser to Ford when it sold the Hertz Corporation to a private equity group for $15 billion.
 Thus, Mr. Rubin's decision to resign now may be a sign that ''whatever's coming down the line at Ford will be big stuff,'' Mr. Casesa said.
 Mr. Rubin's move comes as Wall Street and the news media have shone a harsh spotlight on Ford, which is fighting to hang on to its position as the No. 2 in the American market, behind G.M. Although the company's troubles have been building for some time, Ford in large part was able to escape scrutiny because of even bigger problems at General Motors.
 Those days are over. In recent days, the company has been awash in speculation, ranging from the prospects of the Ford family's taking the company private, which many analysts dismiss as unlikely, to the lineup of potential buyers for Jaguar and its other brands.
 The speculation can be a useful tool for Ford as it gauges investor and employee sentiment to steps it may take, analysts said. Conversely, it can also serve to undermine morale and raise expectations too high for the company to meet.
 Ford's woes have provided kindling to fire the rumors. Last week, Ford said it would cut its fourth-quarter production by 21 percent, its biggest cut in more than two decades, because sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles have been devastated by high gasoline prices. In July, Toyota passed Ford for the first time to rank as the second-biggest carmaker in the American market.
 Ford, which lost nearly $1.5 billion during the first six months of 2006, cut its dividend in half last month. In January, Ford announced a turnaround plan for its North American operations, which it called the Way Forward. Under it, Ford planned to close 14 factories and cut 30,000 jobs by 2012.
 But the company is now expanding the plan, warning that it might have to cut deeper and more quickly than the original blueprint anticipated. Details are expected to be announced in mid-September and could include more cuts in white-collar jobs and more buyouts for blue-collar workers. Ford, which has not identified all the factories that it plans to close, may add more plants to the list and speed the layoffs already announced.
 Ford shares rose 24 cents, to $8, on word of Mr. Rubin's resignation as well as reports that Ford's former chief executive, Jacques A. Nasser, may lead an investment group to bid for some of Ford's assets. Mr. Suris said the reports were speculation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Rubin, center, is a former Treasury secretary and is currently chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman/Bloomberg News)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); SPORTS CARS (68%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Robert E Rubin; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



492 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Shares Flat as Fed Chief Offers No Hints

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a lackluster session mostly lower yesterday after a speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, failed to give investors any hints about interest rate policy despite their concerns that the economy might be slowing too fast. 
 The major indexes finished the week with losses. 
Further exasperating investors was a rally in oil and natural gas prices, which helped push blue chips lower and reinforced concerns that consumer spending will weaken. Stocks have retreated this week on questions about whether the economy is heading for a soft landing.
 With little to guide them in slow summer trading, investors dwelled on the week's data showing sluggish housing and orders for durable goods. Traders hoped Mr. Bernanke might sound a more dovish tone after another Fed official said interest rate increases might still be in store this year.
 ''Without anything from Bernanke, the theme of the week is that there's now a negative shift in opinion about the economy due to housing data,'' said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. ''Don't forget volume is light. There's not that many buyers and sellers out there, and that will push the market in one direction without much effort.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 20.41 points, or 0.18 percent, to 11,284.05. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.97 point, to 1,295.09, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.18 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,140.29.
 Bonds rose, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note gaining 5/32, to 100 24/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.78 percent from 4.80 percent Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Analysts said investors were waiting to see if stocks could latch on to a direction next week, when a batch of economic data, including consumer confidence, job growth and manufacturing readings, will be released. Many on Wall Street will not return from vacation until after Labor Day, and could begin to digest and trade on those numbers then.
 ''There's still a coin toss to how people will respond, but we believe the focus on rates is going to diminish and people will look more at the economic data to see how severe the downturn is going to be,'' said Warren West, head trader at Greentree Brokerage Services in Philadelphia. ''We're to stop celebrating a downturn, and start to worry it will be more than just a soft landing.''
 Many investors believe recent data suggests the Fed might have gone too far by raising rates 17 times in two years. If the economy moderates too quickly, that could erode corporate profit and consumer spending.
 Also adding to the stock market's unease has been the direction of oil. Crude oil prices have crept higher on concern that Iran, the world's fourth-largest producer, will blockade exports if sanctions are imposed over its nuclear program.
 But the most immediate fear is a storm south of Puerto Rico that could threaten Gulf of Mexico production early next week. 
 A barrel of light crude for October delivery rose 15 cents, to $72.51, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Higher fuel prices pushed the Dow Jones transportation average -- which measures transportation industry stocks -- lower for the seventh straight week. Shares of Continental Airlines fell 43 cents, to $22.96, while AMR, the parent of American Airlines, dropped 46 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $19.40.
 Technology stocks moved moderately higher, with XM Satellite Radio rising 59 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $13.49. The company, whose shares were off nearly 54 percent from the start of the year, was given regulatory approval for three radio models with FM transmitters.
 Ford Motor added 24 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $8 after the former Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, resigned from the board, citing a potential conflict of interest with his duties as a member of the chairman's office at Citigroup. There has been speculation the Ford family might take the company private or pursue a sale or alliance with another automaker.
 H&R Block shed $1.98, or 8.7 percent, to $20.81, after reporting late Thursday that it was setting aside $102.1 million to cover possible losses from having to buy back mortgage loans as borrowers are increasingly missing their early payments. The warning pushed shares of banks with large mortgage businesses lower.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average declined 97.42 points, or 0.86 percent; the S.& P. 500-stock index lost 7.21 points, or 0.55 percent; and the Nasdaq fell 23.66 points, or 1.09 percent.

 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the D.J. industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); US LABOR DAY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Finances; Credit

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



493 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Gives Seminar On History of Globalization 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 25 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Friday that the pace of globalization today was faster and more sweeping than at any time in world history.
 And while he generally lauded the expansion of global trade and finance, he warned that governments needed to help their citizens cope with the disruptions of new competition and ''ensure that the benefits of global economic integration are sufficiently shared.''
Delivering the keynote speech at the Fed's annual retreat here in the Grand Tetons, Mr. Bernanke stayed away from the battles at the top of the Fed's agenda -- rising inflation, high energy prices, a plunging housing market and worries about a possible economic downturn. 
 Instead, he focused on how today's wave of rising global integration was different from what the world has seen before -- a trend that is forcing the Fed and other central banks to change the way they think about monetary policy. 
 ''The emergence of China, India and the former Communist-bloc countries implies that the greater part of the earth's population is now engaged, at least potentially, in the global economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''There are no historical antecedents for this development.''
 Speaking more like the Princeton economics professor he once was, the Fed chairman surveyed previous expansions of global activity from the Roman Empire to the opening of the Suez Canal and European colonialism.
 Those expansions shared many common themes with trends of today, he said, including the role of new technologies in opening up trade opportunities as well as similar social and political backlashes from groups whose lives were disrupted by new competition.
 But while other experts have often cited the rapid economic integration before World War I as a precedent, Mr. Bernanke argued that the process today was faster, broader and deeper than earlier waves of globalization.
 Though he did not mention the practical implications for monetary policy and central banking, other experts here are delivering papers that examine the role of Chinese goods in holding down global prices and that scrutinize major changes in global capital movements between rich and poor countries.
 One of the most startling changes, which has helped fuel American growth and kept interest rates low, is that the United States and other wealthy industrialized countries are attracting huge volumes of capital from poorer counties in Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. 
 ''Today, the world's largest economy, that of the United States, runs a current-account deficit, financed to a substantial extent by capital exports from emerging market nations,'' Mr. Bernanke noted. 
 Mr. Bernanke has previously argued that the United States' huge indebtedness is merely the reverse side of a ''global savings glut'' caused by the fact that some other countries offer too few investment opportunities. 
 Other analysts take a much darker view. Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard University who has served as chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, warned in a paper here that the United States was becoming overly dependent on developing countries that might soon start using their excess savings for themselves.
 ''Even if these favorable trends continue, there are massive budget problems that most of the developed world is going to face as its populations age,'' Mr. Rogoff cautioned.
 The Fed and other central banks, he said, need to prepare for the ''risk of an eventual slowing down or reversal'' of the so-called savings glut. 
 Mr. Bernanke steered clear of that issue. But he was blunt in declaring that the current pace of globalization, though part of a trend that is thousands of years old, is also something the world has never seen.
 ''The scale and pace of the current episode is unprecedented,'' he said. Though Columbus's voyage to North America ultimately transformed the world, he noted, that change took centuries to occur. By contrast, he said, the emergence of China as an industrial dynamo and export powerhouse has altered the world economy and geopolitics in less than 30 years.
 The patterns of global trade and finance have changed as well, he said. The old distinction between core rich countries that exported manufactured goods and poorer periphery countries that exported natural resources has broken down.
 Production is becoming more geographically fragmented, he noted, citing chip makers like Advanced Micro Devices that do production in Texas and Germany and final processing in Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and China. 
 If Mr. Bernanke had a message to political leaders, it was that they needed to acknowledge the downsides of globalization in terms of lost jobs, disrupted livelihoods and wrenching change.
 ''The challenge for policy makers,'' he said, ''is to ensure that the benefits of global economic integration are sufficiently widely shared -- for example, by helping displaced workers get the necessary training to take advantage of new opportunities -- that a consensus for welfare-enhancing change can be obtained.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, right, and Donald L. Kohn of the Fed board of governors, took a break yesterday at the retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Mr. Bernanke delivered the keynote speech. (Photo by Matthew Staver/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HISTORY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INFLATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); WORLD WAR I (70%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); MOUNTAINS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



494 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's Former Economy Czar Weighs Run for President

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
If any one person can claim to be the architect of Argentina's remarkable economic recovery, it is Roberto Lavagna, who was finance minister from 2002 until late last year. But now the government he once served has made him one of its main antagonists -- and has transformed him into an opposition rallying point and a likely presidential candidate.
 With elections scheduled for late next year, President Nestor Kirchner has a support level of more than 60 percent, according to recent polls. Much of that popularity stems from three consecutive years of 8 percent growth, a result of policies that Mr. Lavagna largely devised but which are now being derided as ''neo-liberal,'' almost an insult here. 
 ''It's like an inheritance,'' Mr. Lavagna said in an interview, referring to economic indicators that at the time of his departure were Argentina's strongest in a century. ''That's a phenomenal base on which to build,'' he added.
 But in his view, the Kirchner government is squandering the opportunity by imposing ''a rigid system of price controls'' and resuming ownership of some formerly state-run companies privatized in the 1990's, like water utilities and airlines.
 A former ambassador, Mr. Lavagna has also been critical of what he calls Mr. Kirchner's ''turn to the left'' on foreign policy, especially the budding alliance between Argentina and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. As Mr. Lavagna sees it, Mr. Chavez is trying to hijack Mercosur, the South American customs union, and turn it into an anti-American political alliance, apparently with Mr. Kirchner's acquiescence.
 Mr. Lavagna's transformation from czar of the economy to potential candidate is occurring as opposition complaints about Mr. Kirchner's accumulation and consolidation of power are growing. The main battleground has recently been the president's demand for permanent ''superpowers'' to allow him to alter budget expenditures and issue ''decrees of necessity and urgency'' without seeking congressional approval.
 In midterm elections last October, Mr. Kirchner, victorious with only 22 percent of the vote in 2003 and initially dependent on Mr. Lavagna for credibility, won a comfortable de facto majority in both houses of Congress. He also has the support of nearly all of the country's 24 governors but has balked at having to negotiate and bargain to win support for his programs.
 ''Some legislators want to extort me,'' Mr. Kirchner, a Peronist, complained last month while arguing in favor of added powers, which Congress eventually approved. ''They don't want to let me govern, they want Argentina not to change.''
 Mr. Lavagna, 64, described the measures as ''a step backward,'' noting that this year's budget was submitted without decree authority ''because we didn't think it was necessary.'' At the same time, he has warned of government contracts and control of state companies being steered to Mr. Kirchner's political allies based on records of loyalty, not competence.
 But despite all the speculation about him, Mr. Lavagna, who is not affiliated with any party, is not yet officially running for office. He said he would make a decision at the end of the year, because ''I've never been involved in party politics, and so I don't know if my ideas can be transformed into an electoral campaign.''
 But if Mr. Lavagna seems to be playing it coy, so is Mr. Kirchner. He has said only that the Peronist candidate will be ''a penguin,'' meaning someone from Patagonia, but using the word in both its masculine and feminine forms, thus hinting that he may want to step aside and let his wife, Senator Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, be the Peronist standard-bearer.
 Behind the scenes, two former presidents whom Mr. Lavagna also served, representing parties that have historically been rivals, have been working to build support for his candidacy. Eduardo Duhalde, who appointed Mr. Lavagna finance minister, has sought to bring dissident Peronists into the Lavagna camp, while Raul Alfonsin has been trying to steer remnants of the Radical Civic Union party there.
 Mr. Lavagna appeals ''to a fractured opposition because he appears to be the leader who has the most electoral density,'' said Graciela Romer, a leading political consultant and pollster. Positioning himself as a member of what he calls the ''progressive center,'' Mr. Lavagna, like Mr. Kirchner ''appeals across ideological lines, from the left to the center-right,'' she said.
 Elisa Carrio, a center-left member of Congress who ran against Mr. Kirchner in 2003 and has said she will challenge him again, contended that any effort to defeat the president was probably doomed. Though Mr. Kirchner's support ''is a broad sea that is only an inch deep,'' she said, unless there is ''a crisis generated by an excess of power or authoritarianism'' on his part, he will coast to victory.
 If Mr. Lavagna runs in 2007, Ms. Romer predicted, the best he can reasonably expect is to win 15 to 20 percent of the vote and position himself as the leader of the opposition for the next election, in 2011. ''His only chance is if he can somehow force a second round, and all the voters on the center-right come to him,'' she said, after voting for others in the first round.
 Mr. Lavagna has been reluctant to take credit for playing the decisive role in Argentina's comeback that economic analysts ascribe to him. But he has responded sardonically to recent attacks on him and claims by Mr. Kirchner's allies that the president is the real economic helmsman, saying, ''There is a tendency to put on the medals won by others, from human rights to the economic recovery.''
 He also recalled a conversation he once had while still a member of the Kirchner government during which another senior official told him that the only two ways of dealing with Mr. Kirchner were ''to be either a slave or an enemy, and I've chosen to be a slave.'' That option, Mr. Lavagna added, ''is not for me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Lavagna was Argentina's finance minister from 2002 to 2005. (Photo by Horacio Paone for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); AIRLINES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (66%); APPROVALS (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); EXTORTION (61%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (53%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (51%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (78%) ARGENTINA (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



495 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Panel Set to Recommend Scaled-Back Approach to Fighting Poverty

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Leaders of a mayoral commission charged with working to eradicate poverty in New York City are scaling back wider ambitions to instead focus on helping three distinct populations: young children, young adults and the working poor.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg formed the panel in January to draw up a template for his administration to attack chronic poverty. He described this as a key goal of his second term, much as overhauling the school system was during his first.
The panel has completed its fieldwork, and a memo from its leaders to its members, which was given to The New York Times by critics of the narrowed focus, indicates that the group is shelving suggestions to help populations like the elderly, men returning from prison, the unemployed and the homeless.
 The Commission on Economic Opportunity, as the panel is named, is drawn from the upper echelons of the city's business, nonprofit, academic and social services sectors, with Richard D. Parsons, the chairman of Time Warner, and Geoffrey Canada, who runs one of the most acclaimed antipoverty programs in the country, at its helm. Its leaders have traveled to the city's poorest areas and even overseas to determine which strategies are most successful. 
 The memo urges the commission, as it prepares its final report to the mayor, to hone its recommendations to include only proven methods that will be most effective in combating poverty.
 Emphasizing the need to show progress using the limited money and authority available to city government, the approach outlined in the memo is more business- and results-oriented than broader strategies used in the past, which relied on federal subsidies and entitlement programs to fight poverty at all levels.
 ''We must take what we have learned and fashion a realistic set of recommendations that will give more New Yorkers a chance to lift themselves out of poverty,'' reads the memo, from Mr. Parsons, Mr. Canada and Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs, who is overseeing the commission. ''To have a more powerful impact, rather than spread efforts across the entire population,'' the memo suggests focusing on children younger than 6, people 16 to 24, and the working poor. 
 The limited scope of the recommendations has drawn private criticism from some panel members, who have begun to wonder what the purpose was of having the commission in the first place, though none would speak publicly for fear of alienating the administration. 
 The memo suggests that the commission is tailoring its recommendations to Mr. Bloomberg's interests and campaign promises, building on and better coordinating existing programs rather than creating a variety of new pilot projects. 
 The city's poverty rate, which is roughly twice that of the nation, has been climbing, jumping from 17.9 percent in 2000 to 25.5 percent in 2004, said Andrew A. Beveridge at Queens College, based on the most recent available census figures. 
 According to a report released last year by the Community Service Society, an antipoverty group, the total number of New Yorkers living in poverty is approaching 1.8 million, more than the population of Philadelphia.
 But until now, the city had not tried to take a coordinated approach to the problem, instead spreading its efforts through individual agencies with programs that focused on isolated or indirect methods. Those include reducing homelessness, improving education, creating jobs by supporting small businesses and increasing the amount of low-cost housing available.
 In taking a more targeted and coordinated approach, and one that views antipoverty aims as part of an economic development strategy, the city is in some ways mirroring efforts of other cities and states that are trying to fill the gap left by dwindling federal contributions, said Harry J. Holzer, a public policy professor at Georgetown University. 
 At the same time, the panel is laying the groundwork to make measurable progress before the end of Mr. Bloomberg's term in just over three years. Fulfilling his promise of making a major reduction in poverty is clearly an important element in the legacy Mr. Bloomberg would like to leave the city.
 City officials declined to discuss the memo or details about the recommendations or their financing. But the highly coordinated focus on children, young adults and the working poor reflects the financial strictures under which the commission has operated. 
 ''We have to be realistic,'' Mr. Bloomberg told a gathering of the commission and city officials earlier this year. ''The answer to curing poverty can't just be bigger government. We can't make that mistake from the past. The answer to curing poverty can't be walking away from people. We've also made that mistake in the past.''
 The focus also reflects a view within the administration that the lines between the populations may not be as distinct as they might appear. Helping young children, officials have said, by necessity means helping their families as well.
 But for some of those who work with the poor, the memo is causing worries that the city may scale back on its efforts for other types of poor people. 
 ''We are concerned that the long-term unemployed and welfare recipients are going to be left out of the commission's recommendations,'' said Sandra Killett, co-chairwoman of the board of directors at Community Voices Heard, one of the many advocacy groups tapped by the commission for ideas. ''Shouldn't these populations be a priority in addressing poverty? It doesn't even seem like the Human Resources Administration,'' the city's welfare agency, ''is part of the process.''
 The memo suggests focusing on ways to provide full-day child care for working parents, to move young adults from high school into college with an emphasis on workplace skills and to make sure working adults get aid to which they are entitled.In addition, the memo suggests a focus on enhancing neighborhood-based strategies, an approach that Daniel L. Doctoroff, Mr. Bloomberg's development deputy, has already begun in Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick in Brooklyn and Melrose in the Bronx.
 The directives to the commission also emphasize the importance of engaging the private sector in its work, making sure that education and work force development efforts dovetail with industries in which jobs are expected to grow.
 While some have criticized the commission's limited scope, other commission members and outside experts said that Ms. Gibbs was right to steer the recommendations toward a few focused goals in order to make the kind of measurable progress that has been a hallmark of the Bloomberg administration's results-oriented strategies. This approach has led to reductions in homelessness during the mayor's first term. 
 If the administration can test projects in neighborhoods that can make the city a model of successful antipoverty programs, it could potentially make a case to the federal government to provide financing for similar projects nationwide, said Gordon Berlin, president of M.D.R.C. Mr. Berlin, whose research organization evaluates programs for low-income people, cautioned that doing so would require collecting compelling data, a priority the memo outlines.
 Merryl H. Tisch, a member of the State Board of Regents and chairwoman of the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, said that she had been ''a little taken aback'' when her attempts to include the problems of the elderly were rebuffed. Still, she said, she came to see that the commission was not the place to deal with them, and called the focus on youth and the working poor realistic.
 ''You can't do everything in one fell swoop,'' she said. ''You have to do things that the city can afford and that state and federal funding would help subsidize. It's not a perfect world, but just trying to undertake this is extraordinary.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); CHILDREN (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CENSUS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Children and Youth; Aged; Homeless Persons; Prisons and Prisoners

ORGANIZATION: Commission on Economic Opportunity (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); RICHARD D PARSONS (71%) Diane Cardwell; Jo Craven Mcginty; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Richard D Parson; Geoffrey Canada

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



496 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Obama Gets a Warm Welcome in Kenya

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
If Senator Barack Obama is ever thinking of running for president -- or changing careers to rock star -- he got excellent practice in Nairobi on Friday.
 Thousands of people lined the streets, waiting hours in the intense sunshine just for a glimpse of him.
Local newspapers overflowed with breathless coverage, including the headline, ''Village beats the drums for returning son.'' 
 Everywhere he went he had to part seas of shutter-snapping journalists and mobs of ecstatic fans.
 A riot nearly broke out when he slipped past his bodyguards at a downtown event and simply smiled at the crowd.
 ''Obaaammmaaaa!'' the people yelled.
 Mr. Obama, a freshman Democratic senator from Illinois, was in Kenya's capital on Friday as part of a tightly scripted four-country tour in Africa to raise awareness for AIDS and to reconnect with his roots. 
 His father was a goat herder-turned-economist from western Kenya and, though Mr. Obama was never close to him or spent much time in Kenya, many Kenyans claim him as one of their own.
 ''He's our lion,'' said George Mimba, a computer consultant, after shaking Mr. Obama's hand.
 ''He will help us,'' said Bob Osano, a marketing agent stuck behind a metal barricade.
 Schools in western Kenya have been renamed for Mr. Obama. Unofficially, so has a popular brand of beer.
 All week, people near Nyangoma-Kogelo, the village where Mr. Obama's father grew up, were scrambling to prepare a welcome fit for royalty, fixing roads, practicing skits and ironing their Obama T-shirts. 
 On Saturday, Mr. Obama plans to visit the village and sit in a tin-roof house with his grandmother, who speaks no English and will be waiting for the rising Democratic statesman with an egg, apparently a grandmother-grandson tradition in these parts. He also plans to take an H.I.V. test in public to help promote awareness of the virus.
 Mr. Obama seems to be many things to people here: a role model; a black man succeeding in a white man's world (he is the only African-American in the United States Senate); a friend in a high place; and the embodiment of American opportunity and multiculturalism (his mother is white and from Kansas). In Kenya, people who are half-white and half-black are called ''point fives.''
 Wycliffe Muga, a local commentator, said the backdrop to the excitement was that many Kenyans are fed up with their own leaders and the country's persistently high levels of corruption and crime. They place their hopes in outsiders like Mr. Obama, who they think will help from abroad.
 ''Call it the donor mentality,'' Mr. Muga said. ''People are saying, 'We have a senator now; we have a man in power.' They forget he is a U.S. senator representing the state of Illinois.''
 It was a point Mr. Obama had to make when he was asked at a news conference on Friday about lowering American subsidies on farm produce so African farmers could compete.
 He responded that many of his constituents were soybean farmers. ''It's important to me to be sure I'm looking out for their interests,'' he said. ''It's part of my job.''
 Mr. Obama, who sits on the Senate subcommittee for African affairs, used the news conference to show off his fluency in all things African.
 He said ''Zimbabweans were ill served'' by their dictatorial president, Robert G. Mugabe. He spoke of the troubled Darfur region of Sudan, saying, ''We're on the verge of an enormous humanitarian crisis.''
 Regarding Kenya, he talked about his meetings earlier in the day with President Mwai Kibaki and the opposition leader Uhuru Kenyatta.
 He praised Kenya's lack of major ethnic conflict and its history of clean elections. But he added, ''You're starting to see the reassertion of ethnic identity as the basis for politics,'' which he said was not good.
 Before arriving in Kenya, Mr. Obama visited South Africa, where he met with apartheid-era freedom fighters and people with AIDS. After five days in Kenya, he will travel to Chad to speak with refugees from nearby Darfur, and to Djibouti, where American forces are stationed in a counterterrorism operation.
 Of course, he could not escape Beltway politics, even 7,500 miles away.
 One Kenyan journalist, after a long preamble on the virtues of the American Constitution, asked him, ''What will you do to liberate Congress from the White House?''
 Mr. Obama threw a few jabs at the Bush administration for not consulting lawmakers enough and vowed, ''You're going to see a change in the balance of power soon.''
 And then came the questions everybody wanted to ask: Does he harbor presidential ambitions? If so, will he run for president in 2008?
 ''I don't know what to do with these two questions,'' Mr. Obama said, cracking a toothy grin.
 ''The day after my election to the United States Senate, somebody asked me, am I running in 2008. I said at that time: 'no.'
 ''And nothing so far,'' he said, ever so slightly stressing those last two words, '' has changed my mind.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Barack Obama greeted crowds in Nairobi, near where the United States Embassy stood before a bombing destroyed it in 1998. (Photo by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RIOTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WRITERS (72%); AIDS & HIV (70%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); CORRUPTION (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); BEER & ALE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



497 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Russia Says It Opposes U.N. Sanctions on Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
Russia's defense minister said Friday that it was premature to consider punitive actions against Iran despite its refusal so far to suspend its efforts to enrich uranium as the United Nations Security Council has demanded. 
 Although Russia agreed to the Security Council's resolution on July 31, Defense Minister Sergei B. Ivanov's remarks made it clear that Russia would not support taking the next step that the United States and Britain have called for: imposing sanctions against Iran or its leaders over its nuclear programs. The Council set Aug. 31 as the deadline for Iran to respond to its demand.
 Russia has repeatedly expressed opposition to punitive steps, even as President Vladimir V. Putin and others have called on Iran to cooperate with international inspectors and suspend its enrichment activity.
 But on Friday Mr. Ivanov went further, saying the issue was not ''so urgent'' that the Security Council should consider sanctions and expressing doubt that they would work in any case.
 ''I know of no cases in international practice or the whole of previous experience when sanctions achieved their goals or were efficient,'' Mr. Ivanov, a close ally of Mr. Putin who also serves as deputy prime minister, said in televised remarks in the Far East.
 Russia's opposition left in doubt the Bush administration's delicate diplomacy to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear energy programs, which American officials fear disguise an effort to build nuclear weapons.
 Echoing a statement by the Foreign Ministry after Iran responded in writing this week to an offer of incentives from Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States, Mr. Ivanov said that Russia would continue ''to advocate a political and diplomatic solution to the problem.''
 But neither he nor other officials have said what Russia will do if Iran refuses to meet the Security Council's demands to suspend its nuclear programs by the deadline. 
 On Wednesday a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Mikhail L. Kamynin, said that it was important to ''grasp nuances'' in Iran's lengthy written response and that Russia would continue to use its influence with the Iranians.
 Russia has significant economic ties with Iran and is building a nuclear reactor at Bushehr, an Iranian city on the Persian Gulf. Underscoring Russia's cooperation in the field, an Iranian delegation has been visiting this week to discuss further joint projects, which officials from both countries have emphasized are purely civilian in nature.
 But Russia's opposition to sanctions appears to extend beyond purely commercial interests. Officials have indicated that they fear that sanctions would lead to a new American-led military conflict in the region, as happened in Iraq.
 Voicing a similar fear, the French foreign minister, Philippe Douste-Blazy, said in Paris that Iran's response was ''not satisfactory'' but warned that it would be worse ''to lend fire to a confrontation between Iran on one side -- the Muslim world with Iran -- and the West.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SERGEI IVANOV (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) INDIAN OCEAN (51%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



498 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: From Cowed to Defiant: Sudan Balks at Taking Peacekeepers

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
On Sept. 12, 2001, President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, whose government had once played host to Osama bin Laden, sent a message to President Bush and the American people. 
 He called the attack on the World Trade Center ''a crime against humanity'' and promised to join the fight against terrorism.
Nearly five years later, it is Mr. Bush's turn to send a message to Mr. Bashir, via the top American diplomat for Africa on Saturday -- but they are unlikely to find Sudan to be such a receptive audience. 
 The Bush administration is pressing Mr. Bashir to accept a United Nations peacekeeping force to salvage the dying peace agreement in Darfur that the United States worked so hard to get. The message will be blunt, Jendayi E. Frazer, assistant secretary of state for African affairs, said in Washington on Friday before heading to Khartoum. Despite Sudanese objections to the peacekeeping force, she said, she expected that a Security Council resolution authorizing it would pass and that the troops would be at least partly in place by Oct. 1. 
 But Ms. Frazer will arrive in a very different Khartoum than the cowed one that sent the message in 2001. Back then, Sudan's economy had been battered by sanctions after a decade as a pariah state. Given its jihadist past and suspected ties to terrorism, the threat of military action by the United States still hung heavily, jeopardizing a fledgling oil boom. The very survival of the government, ruled by a tiny elite since it overthrew an elected government in 1989, was at stake. 
 Today, the Sudanese capital is defiant and transformed, a boom town built on oil money and investments from the Persian Gulf, China and Malaysia, buoyed by a changing geopolitical landscape in which it seems convinced it has little to fear from thumbing its nose at the world's only superpower. ''They seem to be playing on Washington's weakness and their relative strength,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, whose writings helped shape the Bush administration's Sudan policy.
 ''The U.S. is completely pinned down with Iraq and Lebanon and related issues; there is a surge of investment capital coming into Khartoum,'' Mr. Morrison said. ''It looks to me like they are calculating that time is on their side and they don't have to compromise. Immediately after 9/11 they came under a serious, credible threat from the U.S., but now I think the equation has changed to where the threats are not there and not credible.''
 Rising oil prices mean poor petro-states like Sudan are less dependent on Western-dominated institutions. The rapid growth of China's economy has created alternative markets. The majority of Sudan's crude goes to China, and the Sudanese are betting that those exports are strategic enough to warrant the threat of a Security Council veto of the peacekeeping force by China. 
 Arab solidarity, bolstered by the role of the United States in Iraq and its support for Israel's incursions in Lebanon, has helped cast Sudan's fight against the United Nations force as one of Arab and Muslim resistance to Western domination. In his increasingly bellicose speeches, Mr. Bashir has compared Sudan to Lebanon and the prospect of a United Nations force to Israel, vowing that Sudan would repulse any attempt by foreign forces to enter Darfur. 
 The Arab League has pledged to pay for a strengthened African Union peacekeeping force, Sudanese officials said. The current 7,000-member force is almost out of money. 
 Indeed, Sudan's plan for pacifying Darfur with its own troops working in tandem with the African Union, which was presented to the Security Council last week, was seen by many officials in New York and Washington as yet another negotiating ploy. But any illusions about the seriousness of Sudan's intentions fell away when it declined even to discuss the matter with the Security Council. 
 Sudan's foreign minister, Lam Akol, said in an interview here that the plan to use troops to pacify Darfur was already in motion. ''With this plan, we are implementing the Darfur peace agreement,'' he said. ''We do not need the permission or the input of the United Nations or anyone else.'' 
 The indifference to outside pressure suggests that the true audience for Khartoum's protests against the threat of Western dominance is internal. Right now, the government's biggest threat is within the president's own clique, said Eltayeb Hag Ateya, director of the Peace Research Institute at the University of Khartoum. ''This has to do with a power struggle in Khartoum, not anything outside,'' Mr. Ateya said. 
 Power struggles abound, from the Islamists who think the government has taken the side of the infidels, to the Arab nationalists who think any accommodation with the West is a capitulation of Arab pride, to the internationalists who urge compromise to ensure greater wealth. 
 Given the proposal put forward by Sudan last week, which calls for 10,500 Sudanese troops to quell the rebellion in Darfur among those who did not sign a peace agreement in May ending the conflict, it seems that the hard-liners currently have Mr. Bashir's ear. 
 Islamic extremism and rabid Arab nationalism have never fit comfortably with most Sudanese. Here in Khartoum, many men's foreheads bear the telltale bruise of the prayerful, but almost every one of them will shake a woman's hand. On the banks of the Nile, courting couples sit together, chaste yet unsupervised romance blossoming. 
 Many people here in Khartoum, asked about the United Nations force, said it did not really matter to them. ''We want more openness,'' said Mazin Aboud, a 27-year-old computer engineer. ''We don't want Sudan to be isolated anymore.'' 
 But if the aftermath of Sept. 11 pushed Sudan to compromise with the United States, end a brutal civil war with the south and cooperate with Washington in fighting terrorism, the current era leaves the United States with few carrots or sticks to end the conflict in Darfur, which Mr. Bush has called genocide. 
 Mr. Morrison said that with little leverage left, the United States should focus on preventing the total collapse of the vast aid effort in Darfur, a lifeline to millions, and on stopping the blood bath that the impending onslaught by the Sudanese Army would surely cause. 
 ''I don't mean to pretend there is any fix here,'' he said. ''What is an option is to face up to a fact that we are in a slide right now and we need to push back and contain the slide to prevent a catastrophe.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%); OMAR AL-BASHIR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (78%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); AFRICA (92%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006



499 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS: LIBYA; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Tripoli: Once a Pariah, Now a Hot Spot 

BYLINE: By KEVIN GRAY

 BODY:
THE beach was dark. Along the shore, where the black Mediterranean lapped the Libyan sand, whispering figures crept beside the water's edge. My friend, a man I had met in Tripoli just a day earlier, had left me there among a dozen deserted grass huts at the bottom of a nameless road 20 miles from the city. He had hiked back behind the hills, he said, ''to make a call.'' That was an hour earlier. 
 To say I was nervous is an understatement. I had $1,000 strapped to my stomach in a money pouch; my international cellphone had no range; and no one back home knew where I was. At a distant end of the beach, on a high rocky jetty, a tent lighted by fires flapped in the wind, its silhouetted occupants beating their African drums.
A sudden skittering near my feet made me jump. Flashlights swept toward me over the sand. That's when I saw them: dozens of long-legged crabs that had come up to the beach to feed but, chased by 10 or so children, would soon become dinner themselves. 
 A few seconds later, my friend Mecki was at my shoulder, and with him were six childhood buddies. They were carrying fresh fish they had speared that day in this same inlet, a wood-burning grill and a plastic Fanta bottle full of homemade schnapps.
 That was two years ago, shortly after the United States lifted its 24-year-old trade embargo against Libya, and I was as much a curiosity to my new friends as they were to me. Since then, small groups of Americans have trekked to Libya and undergone similar transformations from suspicious outsiders to welcomed insiders. 
 They've taken kitschy photos beneath billboards of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the man Ronald Reagan once called ''this mad dog of the Middle East.'' They've wandered through the fragrant alleyways of Tripoli's old city and haggled with its expert silversmiths. At night, they've smoked hookahs in Italianate courtyards near the harbor and eaten shaved ice alongside families escaping the heat of their homes.
 In May, the United States announced that it was restoring diplomatic relations with Libya, which means Libya's capricious visa-approval process should become simpler, leading to what tourism officials hope will be an influx of American visitors.
 Thanks to a flood of new investment from the West, Tripoli is already remaking itself into a travel-friendly destination, as I found when I returned there this spring. Where visitors once had to choose from a handful of state-run hotels, there are now dozens of private places: from the family-run Tebah Hotel, with its chrome-trimmed lobby and collection of stuffed cats, to the over-the-top Corinthia Bab Africa Hotel, a $192 million showcase overlooking the sea, complete with spa, gym and fine restaurants.
 It's no mystery why the Phoenicians picked this deep-water port 2,500 years ago as one of their primary trading posts on the North African coast. The water is Greek-island blue and placid. The marina's docks are packed with bountiful fishing boats, sun-shriveled fisherman and boys who sell cups of espresso and cans of Pepsi wrapped in foil to keep them cold for 1 dinar (about $1.25) apiece. On the horizon sit massive idling oil tankers, whose deck lights form a faint string of jewels at night from one end of the Earth to the other.
 A busy roadway separates the sea from Green Square, a broad plaza from which the main shopping streets branch out, and a good place to start the day and watch the bustle unfold. But get ready for strangers to accost you. Chances are, you'll be the only Westerner in sight, and your new friend will want to know if you've ever met Oprah, whom he watches on satellite TV, or if you know why ''Friends'' was canceled.
 Wandering down 1st September Street, named in honor of Colonel Qaddafi's 1969 coup, you immediately grasp that the heart of Tripoli, a city of 1.7 million (roughly one-third of Libya's population), beats at a colonial pace. It is very much the Havana of the Arab world, a time capsule thanks to years of severe sanctions.
 THE Italians, who ruled Libya as a colony from 1911 to 1947, built this section of the city in the 1920's, with its filigreed iron balconies and broad marble courtyards, which are now filled with drying laundry, exposed wires and the shouts of uniformed schoolboys playing soccer. The Euro-clothing stores, with their soccer jerseys and Armani shoes, are nearly all aimed at men (most women wear the traditional hijab and shop for fabrics in the medina, or old city). Young guys in Diesel knockoffs slouch against the windows on the high narrow sidewalks and will offer warm hellos if greeted.
 While the city still runs on a bring-your-cash economy, A.T.M.'s are appearing in larger hotels and a few camera shops catering to tourists take credit cards. Of course, modernity is nowhere in sight once you cross Green Square and enter the medina. Its meandering souks offer everything from cheap luggage and Nike knockoffs to stuffed pythons and cheetah pelts to illegal ivory and handcrafted gold and silver arabesque jewelry sold by the gram.
 Since the entire city shuts down for about three hours around 1 p.m. so the locals can avoid the blistering heat with a shady nap at home, it's a good idea to grab lunch in the medina. The best place to do that is al-Bouri, a rustic carpet-walled cafe a few yards north of the medina gate and through a warren of back alleys. You can get a full meal (spicy Libyan soup, couscous with lamb and grilled shilba, a type of seabream) for 5 dinars. 
 There is little to do as the city sleeps, so you may want to catch a cab at Green Square (most rides around town are 2 to 3 dinars) back to your hotel for a little rest. Libyan drivers like to make up for the strict politics of their leader by ignoring traffic lights and swerving into approaching traffic if it means getting past a logjam of cars. So hang on to your lunch.
 And if you're staying in the area of al-Kendi Street, a booming residential and retail district south of the square, where hotels are going up on nearly every block, don't be alarmed by the rubble and garbage in the street. It's all part of the chaos of progress -- and the lack of any clear cleanup plan. 
 The evenings in Tripoli are a bit of a bust if you're looking for night life. Libya is one of the few dry countries left on the planet. The best bet is a leisurely dinner a few miles east of town, at the Hoffra (meaning hole) Fish Market. It is a slippery, slimy alley of fishmongers, who offer squid, shrimp, farouge (a local fish) and other things by the kilogram. 
 One of several nearby cafes will cook whatever you buy for 5 dinars a person. You can follow that with a relaxing hookah and a cup of stiff and muddy Arabic coffee.
 If you happen to have taken the phone number of that stranger you met in the morning, however, and if he happened to invite you to the beach, you can find yourself swilling bootleg schnapps cooked on a stove-top pot as the stars twinkle extra brightly overhead. Of course, you'd also wake the next morning with a poisoned headache, sand fleas biting your face and the surreal scene outside your grass hut of teenage girls in black hijabs as they splash in the blinding surf atop inflated Donald Duck rafts. 
 And sitting closer to you, your new friends would be smoking cigarettes and laughing, while the nice families stare and one new pal bellows, ''Don't worry, these are not terrorists.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A.T.M.'s are now a common presence in Tripoli, including one at the Bab al-Bahar, above. Below, the Corinthia Bab Africa has a spa and a sea view from its rooftop pool. (Photographs by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (63%); APPROVALS (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (53%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Kevin Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); AFRICA (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Tripoli (Libya) ; Libya

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



500 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Investors Without Borders

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT turns out that most American investors are not xenophobic. 
 For years, shareholders in the United States have been criticized as harboring a ''home bias'' -- allocating far less to foreign stocks than they would if they did not let familiarity, patriotism and national loyalties stand in the way. But several recent studies are painting a different picture of the willingness of Americans to invest in foreign stock markets.
The studies have found that previous estimates of home bias were exaggerated -- and that most remaining home bias has little to do with investor irrationality. 
 The bias that earlier researchers said they had detected was not cyclical, by the way. Even during periods when foreign stocks have been relatively popular with American investors, as they have been over the last couple of years, researchers still concluded that investors were allocating a disproportionate share of their portfolios to United States stocks.
 What could have led these earlier researchers to exaggerate the amount of home bias? The answer may be found in an assumption they made: that if there were no home bias, American investors' exposure to a given country's stocks would equal that country's share of the total market capitalization of all publicly traded stocks in the world.
 But this exaggerates home bias, according to Francis E. Warnock, an associate professor of business administration at the University of Virginia, because many foreign companies' shares are held by insiders, and are thus not readily available to outside investors. A better measure of home bias would focus only on shares not owned by insiders. Calculated this way, Americans' home bias would be smaller in the case of almost all foreign stock markets, Professor Warnock said.
 Consider a recent National Bureau of Economic Research study, called ''Financial Globalization, Governance, and the Evolution of the Home Bias,'' that was written by Professor Warnock along with Bong-Chan Kho, a finance professor at Seoul National University, and Rene M. Stulz, a professor of banking and monetary economics at Ohio State University. The professors found that, as of the end of 2004, the most recent year they studied, nearly half the shares of the average foreign company were owned by insiders, in contrast to about 12 percent for the average company in the United States. Concentrating on just the shares available to outsiders, and not on all outstanding shares, reduces the estimate of home bias by about 40 percent. (A copy of the study is at www.nber.org/papers/w12389.pdf.)
 What accounts for the home bias that remains? Another National Bureau of Economic Research study, of which Professor Warnock was also a co-author, analyzes the leading hypotheses that were previously proposed. The other authors of the study, ''Look at Me Now: What Attracts U.S. Shareholders,'' were David C. Smith, an associate professor of commerce at the University of Virginia; John Ammer, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve; and Sara B. Holland, a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley. A copy is at papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract--id=556208. 
 To the researchers, the primary cause of what previously was assumed to be home bias is the level of a company's ''informational transparency.'' Other things being equal, they found, American investors allocate less of their stock portfolio to a foreign company if it is less forthcoming about the success or failure of its businesses, and operates in a country with weak or inconsistently applied accounting standards.
 Professor Warnock says that nothing is irrational about investors' behavior in this regard. Much uncertainty arises if companies aren't transparent about their businesses, or if their financial statements don't adhere to strong accounting standards. Because of that uncertainty, such companies' stocks would have to promise significantly higher returns than American companies in order to justify investing in them. Indeed, the professor says, it would be irrational for investors not to shun foreign companies that are not very forthcoming in providing information about their operations. 
 PROFESSOR WARNOCK does not deny that some individual investors may be irrationally shunning foreign equities. His research has found that psychological and behavioral factors do play a small role in explaining investors' behavior. For example, he and his fellow researchers found that, other things being equal, American investors are slightly more likely to invest in a foreign company to the extent that it is more familiar, as measured by the percentage of its sales generated by operations outside its home country. But the tendency is rather weak, and Professor Warnock concedes that the proportion of a company's operations that are global is an imperfect measure of familiarity. 
 This research does not excuse investors from the need to divide their stock portfolios among both domestic and foreign companies. On the contrary, Professor Warnock says he believes that a stock portfolio that is well diversified among ''informationally transparent foreign companies'' will produce greater returns over the long term with less volatility than one that invests only in domestic stocks.
 But the studies do suggest that average investors needn't worry that they are irrationally avoiding foreign stocks.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Insiders''Insiders of publicly owned foreign companies generally own a higher percentage of their companies' stock than do their American counterparts, leaving fewer shares for purchase.Percent of shares of a country's publicly traded companies that are owned by insidersSELECTED COUNTRIESArgentina: 93.9%China: 72.5Mexico: 66.4India: 60.5Brazil: 52.2Hong Kong: 46.6Germany: 44.3Spain: 37.6Japan: 34.0Italy: 33.7France: 33.1Netherlands: 29.2Sweden: 21.5Canada: 18.2Britain: 12.3U.S.: 12.2(Sources by Bong-Chan Kho, Rene M. Stulz, Francis E. Warnock)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); BONDS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (68%); NETHERLANDS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



501 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 8-27-06: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Reflexions

BYLINE: By William Safire. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
The man whose words are parsed more closely than anybody else's in the world opined in early June to a bunch of bankers that this year's ''core inflation'' -- setting aside volatile food and gas prices -- ''has reached a level that, if sustained, would be at or above the upper end of the range that many economists, including myself, would consider consistent with price stability.''
So said Ben Bernanke, current chairman of the Federal Reserve, in a written sentence that he must have sweated over for a week. I think his point was that inflation may be getting too high (in which case it would be inconsistent with price stability), and so I ran his words past Floyd Norris of The Times, a practiced Fedspeak cryptologist. ''What bugged me most about the sentence is its reliance on 'core' inflation,'' noted my colleague. ''Using the core figure for very short periods of a few months may make sense as a way to avoid meaningless volatility, but using it for six months or even longer is hard to understand.'' 
 Even harder to understand is why economists have picked up a vogue word in politics -- every ''power base'' now boasts a ''core constituency'' -- and are using it to modify ''inflation.'' It is a word with beautiful poetic associations, from Shakespeare's ''I will wear him in my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart'' to Keats's ''A virgin purest lipp'd, yet in the lore/Of love deep learned to the red heart's core.'' Now here it is qualifying the rising cost of living. ''The 'core inflation' rate,'' Norris says, ''is relevant for those who neither eat nor use energy.''

Myself, Himself
 Why did bearded Ben, who seems like a nice guy, choose the reflexive myself rather than the simple, objective me?
 ''Including myself,'' the Fed chairman can rest assured, is not a grammatical mistake; the loosey-goosey Merriam-Webster usage dictionary gives 40 examples of writers throughout history who use the reflexive myself in lieu of me -- even including a citation of myself. But I changed me to myself in that last sentence to illustrate an insensitivity to style. That self-centering myself carries a ring of intellectual arrogance that clanks on many ears; a plain me as the object of including, in contrast, has a subtle touch of modesty. A good stylist zings in a reflexive self only when an intensifier is needed to call more attention to the subject.
 Mamie Hixon of the deliciously prescriptive Grammar Hotline at the University of West Florida says that ''a reflexive pronoun is used as the object in a sentence when the word to which the reflexive pronoun refers is the subject.'' That's an instruction in desperate need of a f'r-instance. She explains: ''In the sentence 'I am giving myself a raise,' I is the subject and myself is a reflexive pronoun referring back to I. It is also the object of the verb am giving. So in that sentence, myself refers back to the subject and is also the object of the verb. It meets both criteria of a reflexive pronoun.''
 Hixon takes to task those who respond to ''How are you?'' with the familiar but curious answer ''Fine -- how's yourself?'' She holds that it's ungrammatical. ''That's because 'How are you?' transposes to 'You are how,''' she notes, ''and that's a strange but grammatical sentence. But 'How's yourself?' transposes to 'Yourself is how,' and that's ungrammatical, because yourself cannot function as the subject of a sentence -- it can only work as a reflexive or intensive pronoun.''
 Granted, but that's where good grammar and common usage lock horns. The longtime usage of ''How's yourself?'' has broken through the gravity of grammar to enter the stratosphere of idiom, as infuriating to us half-purists as ''could care less.'' In a language that knows when to hold 'em and when to fold 'em, one wild card trumps all others: Idioms is idioms. (''An idiom is an idiom'' is not idiomatic.) Though it sneaks into the English language through the back doors of dialect and slang or repeated error, a word, once it becomes an entrenched idiom, cannot be heaved out of the saloon by beefy bouncers battling bad form.

How's Yourself?
 Let me speculate about the roots of the idiom How's yourself? It was probably influenced by the Irish-American dialectical use of Himself -- capitalized as a proper noun -- meaning ''top dog.'' It's the intensifier understood in ''He, himself. . .,'' with the ''he'' unspoken. 
 Example: The historian Robert Schlesinger came by this week, researching a book about the Judson Welliver Society, a group of speechwriters from the past 11 presidencies that calls me foundering president. He asked about the waning policy-making influence of today's speechwriters (a trend often deplored by his father, Arthur Jr., the historian and Kennedy adviser-speechwriter) and asked me to recount a moment when a mere writer could believe himself to be at the zenith of White House power. 
 In 1971, Chief Justice Warren Burger asked President Nixon to speak at a Law Day conference in Williamsburg, Va. As a nonlawyer drawing the assignment, I was told to be sure to clear my draft of the president's remarks with Burger. While dutifully following that instruction in a long phone conversation with the meticulous Burger, I looked up to see my secretary, the ordinarily serene Sally Cutting, running into the room gesticulating at the telephone extension: ''It's Himself!'' she cried, repeating, ''Himself is on Line 2.'' President Nixon had apparently dialed my extension directly and was holding on, hardly the customary procedure of chief executives.
 What was an aide to do, with his boss hanging on, probably drumming his fingers as vital affairs of state demanded his attention? I covered the phone mouthpiece with my hand and said, ''Tell the president I can't take his call now, I'm on with the chief justice.'' 
 That stunning sentence, enshrined in my memory as no other, is now part of Welliver speechwriting lore. (As for Himself, he understood.)


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Lettering by Tom Brown and Todd Albertson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); COST OF LIVING (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); WRITERS (70%); HISTORY (68%) English Language; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



502 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Eat Drink Man

BYLINE: By Ligaya Mishan. 
Ligaya Mishan is on the staff of The New Yorker.

 BODY:
THE BANQUET BUG
 By Geling Yan.
 276 pp. Hyperion East. $24.95.
AMONG the specialties on the menu of one (real-life) Beijing restaurant are 30 varieties of animal penis. A particularly sizable specialty, Dragon in the Flame of Desire, comes from a yak and is served whole -- and, on request, flambeed. This prurient item might easily have featured in ''The Banquet Bug,'' Geling Yan's sly comic novel about the excesses -- culinary and otherwise -- of modern life in the Chinese capital. Although it may seem fantastical, her fiction is rooted in fact.
 A journalist who came to the United States after the Tiananmen Square massacre, Yan has written screenplays and novels in Chinese. In this new novel, her first in English, she presents a portrait of Beijing in which the nouveaux riches, profiting from China's economic reforms, dine on sauteed fish eyes while the poor sell pints of their own blood and scramble for work as movie extras, playing corpses. Everything in the city seems to be a con: prostitutes pose as virgin college girls; a popular soy sauce is revealed to be made of human hair scavenged from hospital wards; supposedly blind masseurs push up their sunglasses to watch television after their clients have departed. 
 Even the novel's hero, Dan Dong, leads a double life. An unschooled emigrant from the countryside, he has just lost his job at a cannery. Gone is the fabled ''iron rice bowl,'' Mao's guarantee of lifetime employment for the proletariat. But, thanks to a case of mistaken identity, Dan has stumbled onto a new career: masquerading as a journalist at state-sponsored banquets, where he is served sumptuous food and given ''money for your troubles'' in exchange for the promise of favorable press.
 The banquets promote various causes and products -- literacy, birdwatching, a drug for an unidentified ''deadly flu'' -- all ignored by Dan, who is spellbound by the haute cuisine. Crab-claw tips turn out to taste (surprise!) like chicken intensified to the thousandth power. Raw veal is calligraphically draped over jellyfish to mimic an ancient imperial seal. (''Three chefs spent 16 hours in a refrigerated room to make these dishes,'' a foodie at the next table explains.)
 But this isn't a simple fable about a humble peasant getting in touch with his inner epicure. Dan has childhood memories of eating ''dark gruel made of tree bark and sorghum'' in his native Gansu, one of the provinces plunged into years of famine by Mao's Great Leap Forward, the disastrous policy that may have killed as many as 40 million people.
 The capacity to endure suffering without complaint is considered a defining trait of the Chinese character; in Mandarin, it's called ''eating bitterness.'' Yet all Dan wants is to eat deliciousness -- and to accumulate enough cash to buy his wife an apartment with a toilet. (They live in what real estate agents might optimistically call an industrial loft: an abandoned office above the cannery that fired him, with diverted factory runoff for their water supply.)
 Dan's gig as a gastronome is threatened by an unscrupulous reporter (who tries to extort information from him via foot massages) and by government investigators seeking to exterminate freeloading ''banquet bugs.'' Meanwhile, a group of poor farmers is begging him to publish a story about their exploitation by party officials.
 Mao said, ''To know the taste of a pear, you must change the pear by eating it yourself.'' And the taste of forbidden fruit awakens Dan to the limitations of his experience. He is no longer content to subsist on tins of sardines, unsalably past their expiration date, which his former employer hands out in lieu of back wages. He sees injustice in the withholding of shark fins and Black Forest cake from the common man and is moved to protest ''so many omissions; a life blank as if unlived.'' At a banquet hosted by a drug company, Dan dines on gelatin made of seahorses and bull penises (to boost virility) and frog uterus soup (an aphrodisiac). Like much of ''The Banquet Bug,'' the scene works splendidly as farce -- even as it arouses the nagging suspicion that it might not be so far-fetched after all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MAMMALS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DISMISSALS (64%); HOSPITALS (51%); MASSAGE SERVICES (51%); BIRDING (50%); BIRDS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Ligaya Mishan; Geling Yan

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); GANSU, CHINA (57%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



503 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2593 words

HEADLINE: Orphaned

 BODY:
I.
 I spent the Christmas of 1984 in the St. Thomas housing project, a parcel of low-rise New Orleans blight tucked beside the Mississippi River. It was a glorious day. Neighbors sat on stoops with their stereos loud, swapping plates of corn bread and shrimp-stuffed squash. Kids -- happy kids -- played everywhere, with toys that looked especially new in barren courtyards. Big Wheels, bikes, robots and dolls -- they had been liberated from layaway with dollars squeezed from welfare and menial jobs. One mother let her phone service lapse to buy a $100 set of superheroes that her son could not bring himself to like. She laughed and drank a beer. My guide was a teenage tenant, Thomasina Crockett, whose faith in her future had survived the projects for 15 years. ''I don't think God said, 'Your Mama went out and got pregnant so you have to live in the project,''' she said. ''You can bounce back.'' 
Though bounded by streets called Felicity and Religious, St. Thomas rarely felt so sublime. A few months later, I was standing beside Hope House, a social-service center on the edge of the project, when a pickup truck crashed down the block. Out flew the guy who had stolen it, and behind him the owner, waving a gun. ''I should have shot the bastard,'' he said as the thief vanished inside the brick maze. I was following a Hope House program that brought in middle-class teenagers to study poverty. Some went through the motions for community-service credits. The most searching, Liz Godeaux, who was 19, felt the misery of the project so deeply that it challenged her faith. She had left the hamlet of Swords, La., with a rosary and a plan: to ''show love to the poor.'' But some of the poor leered and smelled like beer. When three homeless men appeared on a rainy night, asking for money and food, she stood behind a locked door and cried. ''I know that Jesus would have probably went up to them and hugged them,'' she said. ''But I'm afraid they're going to hurt me.'' By the end of her weeklong stay, she could sum up St. Thomas tersely: ''This is a bad place.'' 
 With crack, it got worse. New Orleans set records in the 1990's with its homicide rates, and St. Thomas was especially violent. Some of the victims were ''Sesame Street'' age. Coco Vessel, a 5-year-old boy friendly with the nuns who worked at Hope House, was playing in the courtyard at dinnertime when one neighbor aimed at another and shot him instead. Sister Lilianne Flavin, his closest nun friend, marked the place with a tree and put down a plaque. ''May his death be a reminder of the sacredness of life,'' it said. A few years later, a truck from the housing authority crushed it. 
 New Orleans was always a place of unsettling juxtapositions: rosaries, guns and stuffed squash. Now it is physically jarring. I took a drive last month through a city that, almost a year after the storm, remains a collage of tossed wood and crushed metal. The trafficked routes, from the French Quarter to St. Charles Avenue, feint at normalcy. But blocks away are ruins -- the bereft cityscapes, the jumbles of junk, captured in the wrenching photographs of Brenda Ann Kenneally.
 My driving companion, Bill Quigley, worked in St. Thomas as a seminarian 35 years ago; today he is, in all but title, New Orleans's leading lawyer for the poor, as well as a professor of law at Loyola. ''You see any kids?'' he said. We were at South Johnson and Melodia, near the showcase campuses of Loyola and Tulane. Six of seven homes on a block stood empty, and the flood line measured six feet high. ''Here we are in the middle of the summer -- no school -- and not a kid as far as you can see,'' Quigley went on. ''Not a bicycle! Not a tricycle! This is a typical New Orleans neighborhood. This isn't particularly stark.'' 
 A mile away, we came across a ruined school -- in fact, a collection of them. The campus at 2600 South Rocheblave had housed a set of career academies, which a failed New Orleans superintendent, the seventh in 10 years, had championed during his brief tenure. The security gate swung open, along with a classroom door. Drowned legal books, black with mold, covered the classroom floor. An attendance book, open on a desk, gave the room an abandoned-in-a-hurry feel, like a bayou Pompeii. Everywhere was silence.
 It was the silence of missing kids. New Orleans had 128,000 children before the storm. No one knows how many have now returned, but just 18 percent of public-school students were back by the end of the school year. With families still trickling home, a midrange estimate has the schools reopening with 38 percent of their old seats filled. Extrapolating to the child population as whole, that would mean more than 80,000 children are still gone. 
 Near or far, there is reason to fear how they are faring. With the child poverty rate at 41 percent before Katrina -- two and a half times the national average -- the city was filled with what social workers call children ''at risk.'' (They were not at risk equally: 7 percent of white children were poor and 47 percent of blacks.) Some of those kids now miss the bad old days. Howard and Joy Osofsky, a husband-wife team of mental-health experts at the Health Sciences Center of Louisiana State University, have screened more than 2,700 area children since the storm. Among those in fourth grade and beyond, 49 percent met the threshold for clinical referrals. Symptoms included depression, aggression, an abundance of disturbing memories of the storm or an aversion to thinking about it at all. One in seven felt the problems strongly enough to request psychological assistance. 
 Then again, the resilience of children is a potent force -- ''a little bit like having God on your side,'' the psychoanalyst Selma Fraiberg observed decades ago. How well children recover depends in part on the parents from whom they take their cues, drawing strength from strength or angst from angst. The quicker adults settle into homes and jobs, the quicker they settle their kids. But the adults of New Orleans are anything but settled. Every teacher in town knows a child hiding his emotions to protect a troubled parent; psychologists call it ''parentification.'' It's hard to avoid the impression that there's a lot of parentification going on. 
 We drove east, past a shuttered housing project here, a cluster of tiny trailers there, until a chance turn onto Piety Street surrounded us with kids. They were teenage church campers from as far as Virginia, sweating through protective suits as they ripped out moldy drywall. About 450 had come to town, and with a week's hard work, they might gut 10 houses. Two doors down, Bernice Mosely, who is 82, leaned on crutches and introduced herself as ''a cripple.'' She had moved back to her half-gutted house hoping to hire someone to fix it. She had no refrigerator, no stove, no air-conditioning and, despite crime rates that are returning to old levels, no fear. With a few days of food in her cooler, she smiled. ''There's nothing like home,'' she said.
 There is only so much of this the brain can absorb, so many miles of forlorn lots and empty stores and churches caked with Pontchartrain mud. Television conveys the fright of the damage but not the scale. We crossed into the Lower Ninth Ward, past an industrial roof caught in a tree. On my last visit, in February, the storm-tossed houses still straddled the streets; most had now been pushed back onto their lots or bulldozed. That is the Ninth Ward's yardstick of progress: wreckage turned to rubble. Not a thing was being rebuilt. Poverty lawyers are by definition drawn to uphill fights. When I asked Quigley how he kept his bearings, he answered with a mix of Catholicism and Zen: ''The hardest thing in the world is to have a heart that is totally open to tragedy -- like we see all around us -- and also open to hope.''

II.
 At the risk of stating the obvious, it is amazing what damage floodwaters can do. In metro New Orleans, 160,000 homes were damaged or destroyed. Katrina left the city itself with 12 million tons of debris. That is about seven times the amount produced when the World Trade Center collapsed. Before the storm, New Orleans had about 450,000 residents. Postal data released this month found 171,000 had returned. That is 38 percent.
 Every problem in the city seems tangled in another. Uprooted trees took water pipes with them, leaving a water system that loses nearly two gallons of every three pumped. Low water pressure is an epidemic. The Times-Picayune, one institution in good working order, wrote about a high-rise condominium that could not feed the sprinklers at the top; it was ordered to keep two firefighters on duty around the clock, at a weekly cost of $9,000. 
 Amy Liu and her colleagues at the Brookings Institution in Washington keep a monthly tally of where the rebuilding stands. About 60 percent of former customers have electricity. Just over 40 percent have gas. Seventeen percent of the buses are running. Half the hospitals are closed. So are 77 percent of the child-care centers. 
 Brookings does not chart leadership, but presidential credibility waned early with six words: ''Brownie, you're doing a heckuva job.'' (Brownie was Michael Brown, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and his fumbling efforts drew national scorn.) President Bush did appear in the French Quarter two weeks later with a pledge to rebuild the city ''higher and better.'' But his attention has been sporadic, and his priorities have been abroad. Two months later, a front-page editorial in The Times-Picayune warned about broken promises. It says something about Bush's Gulf Coast ambitions that his emissary to the region carries such an unambitious title: ''federal coordinator.'' 
 If federal leadership has been halting, local leadership has halted. Mayor C. Ray Nagin appointed a commission to produce a rebuilding plan, and he has run from it ever since. The plan contemplated a city with a shrunken ''footprint,'' one limited to neighborhoods with plausible elevations and economics. This was rational from a planner's point of view (the city cannot afford all the police, firefighters and utility lines it had) and lethal from a politician's, since it would likely abandon many poor black neighborhoods and some that are not so poor. Greeted with howls of black outrage, it was dead before arrival. But talk of conspiracies abounds. Many black New Orleanians warn that whites are trying to drive them away, and a few even ask whether the destruction was planned.
 Avoiding decisions, Nagin clings to the fiction that all neighborhoods can return, while awaiting the results of another planning process, the city's third. The result, if not quite paralysis, is reconstruction torpor. The first person on the block to renovate his house could be caught on the wrong side of the triage tracks, left without utilities, adequate police and fire protection, schools or stores. 
 Among the puzzles to be solved is the future of public housing. Representative Richard Baker, a white Republican from Baton Rouge, did little for the cause of racial trust when he was overheard thanking God for the projects' destruction. ''We finally cleaned up public housing,'' he said. ''We couldn't do it, but God did.'' Now the federal government wants to knock down about 4,500 of the remaining 7,900 apartments and replace them with mixed-income sites. The U.S. housing secretary, Alphonso Jackson, has a point. New Orleans before the storm was in a demographic death spiral, with middle-class families of all races getting out of town; dangerous to those within and without, the projects were part of the problem. Bill Quigley, who is suing to stop the demolition, also has a point: many low-income families have nowhere else to go, especially since the housing shortage has increased rents by 39 percent in the past year. The projects were nothing to cheer for, but neither is a tourist economy with no place for its cooks or hotel maids to live.
 Both sides see vindication in the death of the St. Thomas project, which had seemed so alive that Christmas morning two decades ago. It was torn down in 2001 and replaced by River Garden, a mixed-income complex where apartments rent for more than $1,200 a month. The housing authority says that subsidies have allowed about 120 low-income families to remain; its critics put the number at 60. Either amounts to a shrunken footprint: St. Thomas, in its heyday, had 1,500 apartments. I caught up with Sister Lilianne, who still works at Hope House, teaching adults to read and write, and keeps on her desk a picture from Coco Vessel's memorial service. We walked to the neighborhood gym, where in the middle of the summer, in the middle of the city, not a soul was at play.

III.
 About the time St. Thomas was razed, a Jesuit priest acquired an empty furniture store a mile or so away and turned it into a year-round elementary school for poor families. To send their children to the Good Shepherd School, parents contribute $100 a year and 75 community service hours. Many of the students come from the projects. All but one are black. That Good Shepherd has been open since January is a tribute to the determination of its principal, Karen Ranatza, who wanted to give her students one place where life could seem normal again. From what I saw, she succeeded.
 For all the trauma of the past year, the kids seemed, well, like kids -- silly, serious, earnest, funny, waving their hands to talk about the places they had been and the friends they had made. But the storm is never far. When the mayor came for a post-Katrina visit, Ranatza had the students draw their wishes for the city. They do not lack for colored crayons, yet they rendered New Orleans in sepulchral black and white. ''They were so aware of the lifelessness,'' Ranatza said. ''They had internalized it.'' 
 Eleven of 15 fifth graders have returned. All but one live in a trailer. One cannot sleep unless she is near her mother's open bedroom door. Another showed me a letter to her teacher: ''I feel so angry and mad at Hurricane Katrina. I feel so emotional.'' Ranatza organized a week's trip to a Nantucket summer camp, hoping to help students conquer their fears -- of traveling, of leaving parents, of the unknown. Panic set in when the pilot introduced herself. Her name was Katrina.
 I asked the fifth graders if they thought the country cared much about New Orleans. ''No!'' they said.
 Tamera: ''I don't have a feeling they care.''
 Logan: ''President Bush, he stayed in the White House. He didn't even come and see.''
 Devonte: ''His wife do. She cares.''
 Chelsea: ''They're going to tear down all the projects! They're building houses on them for people who have money!''
 Israel: ''A lot of racist people want to move the black people out.''
 Tamera: ''They bombed the levees. White people!''
 Ranatza walked in, hardly surprised at what kids can hear on the streets. ''Did black people get flooded?'' she said patiently. ''Yes. Did white people get flooded? Yes. Did rich people get flooded? Yes. Did poor people get flooded? Yes.''
 Then we talked about how flimsy the trailers feel, especially in a storm, and how boring the trips to the Laundromat are and how much garbage is still on the ground. When I asked if there was anything else they want people around the country to hear, Israel spoke up again. His father, a National Guardsman, is in Kuwait, his flooded house was burglarized and someone killed his dog. 
 ''We deserve better,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph A. Hardin Elementary School in the Lower Ninth Ward, which was overrun by flood waters. From left to right: A classroom
the cafeteria
 the school office. (Photographs by Brenda Ann Kenneally For The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CHRISTMAS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HURRICANES (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); RELIGION (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); WEATHER (66%); CRIME RATES (64%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Children and Youth

PERSON: Jason Deparle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



504 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: All Eyes On the Employment Numbers

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
STOCKS have settled into a fairly narrow trading range as investors try to decide whether the economy will make a hard or soft landing.
 The August employment report on Friday may help persuade investors that one outcome or the other is likely. But with the economy and markets straddling the middle of the road, a clear indication of where they are heading may be too much to hope for. 
David Rosenberg, chief North American economist for Merrill Lynch, forecasts job growth this month that is ''very close to the average of the past four or five months.''
 His estimate of 120,000 new jobs is in line with the number anticipated in a Bloomberg News poll of economists, and just above the 113,000 jobs that the economy added in July.
 A more significant element in the job report may be the unemployment rate. Mr. Rosenberg noted that in past Federal Reserve credit-tightening cycles, the peak in rates coincided with a trough in the jobless rate.
 ''If you're looking for a metric for the inflection point in Fed policy, it's the unemployment rate,'' he said.
 Stocks could rally if the figure remains at 4.8 percent, which he expects, and if the rest of the report confirms slow, steady progress for the job market. Wall Street may put a positive spin on neutral.
 ''Right now the stock market is concerned about the Fed and inflation,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''As long as we get a positive number'' of new jobs ''but one that isn't strong enough to generate a lower unemployment rate, that's what the market would like to see.''
 Such a result ''takes the Fed out of play and is still consistent with a soft-landing scenario,'' he explained.
 By contrast, a combination of a lower unemployment rate, high wage growth and weak job creation -- which is possible with a decline in the number of job seekers -- could send stocks lower, he cautioned.

DATA WATCH -- Other items on the economic calendar this week include the provisional report on second-quarter economic output, on Wednesday. It is expected to show an annualized increase of 3 percent, up from 2.5 percent in the first quarter.
 Two widely followed measures of consumer confidence are expected to send mixed messages of the public mood in August. 
 The Conference Board report, due on Tuesday, is forecast in the Bloomberg poll to show a decline to 103 from 106.5 in July.
 And, on Friday, the indicator from the University of Michigan is expected to edge higher, to 79 from 78.7.
 A small gain is also expected on Friday in the Institute of Supply Management's assessment of manufacturing activity for August. 
 A reading of 55 is predicted, after 54.7 last month.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls from 2005 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (72%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (72%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



505 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 288

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Culture Club

BYLINE: By Glenn O'Brien

 BODY:
Area's opening-night theme was ''Night,'' and there was a masked welder in the middle of the darkened dance floor showering everyone with sparks. The dancers loved it. At ''Surrealism,'' the anteroom where you paid your admission had been transformed into a restroom complete with toilets and urinals in homage to Duchamp. ''Gnarly'' featured skulls, monster trucks, a drag racer, a skateboard ramp with live skaters, a strobe-lighted electric chair and a speedboat in the swimming pool with a giant gargoyle driving it. I remember watching Matt Dillon watching a pack of real outlaw bikers swarming around a completely nude biker chick, maybe calculating his odds of moving in. There was a film loop of the exploding-head scenes from ''Scanners'' that night, too, and in the bathroom a scale model of a bowling alley and a beauty parlor populated by real cockroaches. Then there was the night one of the waitresses, Karen Finley, did this nude act with canned yams. 
Area was a nightclub that was like art. Andy Warhol often talked about business art being the next big thing, and this seemed like it, though Area's creators would never say that their elaborate installations had that intent. Yet Area was unprecedented in ambition, invention and fabulosity. It was riotously successful yet insanely oblivious to profit, and then suddenly it was gone -- from a 13,000-square-foot nightclub with three bars, a swimming pool and a tank full of live sharks to a pile of pictures of a lost dream. The club is now history, and so is the world that inspired it. 
 New York in the early 1980's was ground zero for art and would-be artists. It was also economically depressed, which meant that kids could live in the city and work miracles with duct tape. Area's founders, Eric and Christopher Goode, Shawn Hausman and Darius Azari, four young friends from California, came here like the rest: to have fun while getting famous. They had thrown theme parties back home, but they wanted to make history. Eric Goode, who now builds hotels and restaurants (Bowery Bar, the Maritime Hotel, the Park), says the clubs back then were driven solely by music -- disco, punk or rock. ''Area,'' he recalls, ''was purely visual. It was based on 'happenings,' on what Allan Kaprow and Jim Dine and Claes Oldenburg did.''
 Hausman, a designer, adds: ''We were going to open this place for two years, and that was going to be it. We didn't want to be club owners.''
 Area's premiere, in September 1983, was announced by a pharmaceutical-looking capsule that arrived in a jeweler's box with the instructions: ''Place capsule in glass of hot water and allow to dissolve.'' The club's ''Disco'' night was announced by a phonograph record; ''Suburbia,'' by a slice of Velveeta; ''Confinement,'' by a Chinese finger trap. ''Gnarly'' beckoned with a corrugated box that, when opened, set off a mousetrap smashing open an ammonium capsule. In turn, the capsule might have revived anyone who fainted at the mousetrap snap, but it did not amuse the United States Postal Service.
 ''I've never been in a rock band, but I would imagine our way of working was a little like a band,'' Hausman says. The themes, which changed roughly every six weeks, were generated by marathon brainstorming sessions and then put into play by a frenzied art department of rotating eccentrics that included brilliant and sometimes slightly mad talents like Kenny Baird, Michael Staats, Mark Garbarino (who later designed prosthetic makeup in Hollywood), Serge Becker (now an owner of Joe's Pub and La Esquina) and Reno Dakota (who made the film ''American Fabulous'').
 ''Eric would be doing windows inside a display, doing the whole thing himself,'' Hausman says. ''I'd be managing a crew of 20 people. Maybe Chris would be taking care of the business end, which we weren't prepared for at all. Darius was the mechanical one; he did effects. He was also the cheerleader. If you came by on Wednesday at 3 p.m., we'd be in despair saying, 'There's no way this one is going to get done,' and he'd be insisting, 'We can do this!'''
 The art department had wild imaginations and the obsessive ability to work three days straight. ''I eventually found out half of them were junkies,'' Goode says. ''But I always liked reckless abandon.'' A quality shared by each and every one of them. ''It didn't look fake because it wasn't,'' Goode says of each theme's castings. ''For 'Gnarly,' we got real bikers; for 'Sex,' we got real perverts.'' Other key players included Joe Dolce, now the editor in chief of Star magazine, who wrote crazy press releases and did guerrilla P.R. Eric and Christopher's sister Jennifer was the team researcher and designated shopper. Her list for ''Suburbia'' included 100 boxes of cereal, Fluffernutter, Goobers, a washer and dryer, plastic pink flamingos, an oak-veneer bedroom set, a toilet, Astroturf, Spic and Span, and Tide.
 And then there were the regular performers: Bernard Zette, a man who appeared variously as Marie Antoinette, Marilyn Monroe and Jackie Kennedy; Jeffrey Strouth, whose repertory included characters from John Travolta to Lewis Carroll's Caterpillar; the ultravixen costume artist Christina Downing; Michael Anderson, later the midget on ''Twin Peaks''; and the almost equally diminutive David Yarritu, who went on to play with the band ABC. The artist Jeff Vaughn created ingenious, otherworldly slide projections. Johnny Dynell, Anita Sarko and DJ Red Alert frequently spun records, but sometimes Jean-Michel Basquiat worked the turntables for fun, playing Miles, Duke and Bird.
 A few of Area's themes were more curated than constructed. Ironically, Eric Goode recalls, art didn't hold up that well as a theme, but artists had a field day. David Hockney flew in to do the pool. Michael Heizer put his meteorites on the dance floor. Warhol did T-shirts and an invisible sculpture. Keith Haring painted something on the dance floor. Barbara Kruger painted something on a wall. Basquiat, Alex Katz, Jenny Holzer and Tom Wesselmann all did windows. Larry Rivers did a great sculpture of two guys having sex.
 One of the more spectacular themes was (and happened to come) ''Ready-Made.'' Hausman's father had produced the film ''Silkwood,'' and when production shut down, the nuclear-reactor set was going to be tossed out. So Shawn and Eric flew to Texas and drove it back to New York in a 24-foot Ryder truck. Sex, of course, was an ongoing theme at Area. There was talk of something called ''gay cancer,'' but AIDS wasn't yet feared. At either end of the women's bathroom, projectors were set up so that films could be seen in the lounge or on the dance floor. People would sneak in and have sex in the space between the projector and the screen, giving hundreds of people a wild shadow show.
 No matter what the theme, though, Area's most salient feature was its radical restroom concept. There was a men's and a women's, as usual, but no one enforced proper attendance. These were the ''Bright Lights, Big City'' years, but there were other strange things going on in the loos. Eric Goode denies that there was a bar in the bathrooms, but acknowledges that it was a club within a club. ''They were the first truly coed bathrooms,'' he says. ''Stephan Lupino set up a studio in there, photographing people with their clothes off. And Chuck Close's big penis image was exhibited there.''
 I suppose it was all too crazy to last. And too interesting and too labor-intensive and too ... well, not profitable enough. Two years came and went. The partners wanted to close. The investors wanted to sell, but sell what? The concept? When Ian Schrager and Steve Rubell later opened Palladium, it was clearly inspired by Area but vast in scale. By the time Hausman returned to California, ''it had become more about who was throwing the big party,'' he says. ''People didn't care about the themes as much. It was over.''
 So, after 25 buildups and tear-downs, Area closed in early 1987 with ''Childhood,'' a nice symbolic touch suggesting a life lived backward. For years after, I felt a twinge of nostalgia whenever I passed the site, at 157 Hudson Street in TriBeCa. When something like Area comes along, you think, This is a first! But when you think, This is a first, it's often really a last. Area suggested a brilliant future, where night life and art would merge. And they did, for a moment, with reckless abandon. 
 If you got past the door (9.), you never knew what or whom you'd find at Area. 1., 11. A ''Fashion'' night. 2. Matt Dillon. 3. Area's impresario, Eric Goode, right, with Alan Rish. 4. Peter Fraser and Elizabeth Saltzman. 5. Members of the Ramones with Christina Downing. 6. From right, Pilar Limosner, Dianne Brill, Rudolf, Carmel Johnson. 7. The scene. 8. Jean-Michel Basquiat. 10. Sally Randall and Ellen Kinnally. 12. Zoe Lund. 13. Malcolm McLaren. 14. Edwige. Area was known for its elaborate themes, which changed roughly every six weeks, and for its vitrines, which often displayed live animals and people. 15. The indoor pool on a ''Sports'' night. 16. Keith Haring, contributing to an ''Art'' night. 17. Steven Meisel, left, and Teri Toye. 18. Calvin Klein, left, and Tommy Street. 19. David Hockney, Andy Warhol, a friend and Haring. 20. Dianne Brill with members of Frankie Goes to Hollywood. 21. George Hamilton. 22. Laurie Anderson and Roy Lichtenstein. 23. A wigged-out Michael Musto, left, and Albert Crudo. 24. A ''Science Fiction'' night. 25. Bernard Zette. 26. A ''Confinement'' night. 27. Tommy Street. 28. A ''Surrealism'' night. 29. Jennifer Goode.


GRAPHIC: Photos: If you got past the door (9.), you never knew what or whom you'd find at Area. 1., 11. A ''Fashion'' night. 2. Matt Dillon. 3. Area's impresario, Eric Goode, right, with Alan Rish. 4. Peter Fraser and Elizabeth Saltzman. 5. Members of the Ramones with Christina Downing. 6. From right, Pilar Limosner, Dianne Brill, Rudolf, Carmel Johnson. 7. The scene. 8. Jean-Michel Basquiat. 10. Sally Randall and Ellen Kinnally. 12. Zoe Lund. 13. Malcolm McLaren. 14. Edwige. Area was known for its elaborate themes, which changed roughly every six weeks, and for its vitrines, which often displayed live animals and people. 15. The indoor pool on a ''Sports'' night. 16. Keith Haring, contributing to an ''Art'' night. 17. Steven Meisel, left, and Teri Toye. 18. Calvin Klein, left, and Tommy Street. 19. David Hockney, Andy Warhol, a friend and Haring. 20. Dianne Brill with members of Frankie Goes to Hollywood. 21. George Hamilton. 22. Laurie Anderson and Roy Lichtenstein. 23. A wigged-out Michael Musto, left, and Albert Crudo. 24. A ''Science Fiction'' night. 25. Bernard Zette. 26. A ''Confinement'' night. 27. Tommy Street. 28. A ''Surrealism'' night. 29. Jennifer Goode.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); BOWLING CENTERS (53%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%) Nightclubs and Cabarets; Parties (Social); Art

ORGANIZATION: Area (NYC Nightclub)

PERSON: Glenn O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



506 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 261

LENGTH: 2536 words

HEADLINE: Lone Star Style

BYLINE: By Cathy Horyn

 BODY:
Art Palace stands on East Cesar Chavez Street in Austin, Tex., and one look at its sun-seared porch and the two cinder-block sofas parked in the yard told me I was in the right place. The brown-haired girl waiting in the door just confirmed things. 
''Hi, I'm Ali,'' she said, tossing her hips tomboy fashion. Her voice was friendly and unfriendly. She looked to be about 22. I was to discover later, in her painting studio at the University of Texas, where she is a graduate student, that Ali Fitzgerald is in fact drawn to the depravity of the Old West and, still later, on her blog, Calamity Jane-ish, that she addresses everything and everyone as if with a blade of wild grass between her teeth. Art Palace is a gallery that belongs to Arturo Palacios, but Arturo Palacios was in Mexico on the day that I phoned, so Ali let me in. Like all the grass-roots galleries that have opened in the last year on the east side of Austin, Art Palace doesn't keep regular hours. I'd heard of Arturo Palacios from a woman in Houston named Rainey Knudson, who runs Glasstire.com, an online journal of the state's visual arts. Knowing that I was not interested in seeing institutions or galleries that sold New York artists, and being sympathetic, she did not mention any. She said I should see Arturo Palacios.
 ''He's fabulous,'' Knudson said, and smiled. ''Kind of a mess.'' After a moment she added, ''He's the real deal, in my opinion.''
 I had come to Texas in search of an energy and a passion that was seeping out of my familiar world, fashion. Actually, I had come to Texas in lieu of going to Vilnius, Lithuania. It had occurred to me that with countries like the United States sated on and dulled by sophisticated design, and luxury companies pinning their futures on Bangalore yuppies, the combination of economic urgency and political change in Eastern Europe might yield a new, adventurous style. Mind you, I had no evidence that this was happening, merely a two-plus-two hunch. My editors, unfortunately, did not share my zeal for a two-week tour of Lithuania.
 Since I'd pretty much bluffed them in order to get what I really wanted, it seemed polite to wait a few seconds before answering.
 ''O.K.,'' I said, ''then I want to go to Texas.''
 The idea that a single state could serve as a template for what might be exciting in fashion, without actually mentioning clothes or, bless them, socialites, is not as wild as it sounds. Oil had gone to $75 a barrel. The Texas economy is booming. Dallas, for years locked in a Sodom-and-Gomorrah war with Houston, will get a new opera house by Sir Norman Foster, a theater by Rem Koolhaas and bridges by Santiago Calatrava. You have major collectors of contemporary art in Dallas, like Cindy and Howard Rachofsky, who have a home by Richard Meier. Art and architecture have sucked a lot of the energy away from fashion. One of the wildest projects I heard about was the Ballroom Drive-In, a 100-car movie screen that's going up on 150 acres in Marfa, a town of about 2,300 people in West Texas. Two art patrons, Fairfax Dorn and Virginia Lebermann, have been working with Ole Scheeren, a partner of Koolhaas, as well as film curators and artists. You'll be able to sit under the stars, turn on your car radio and catch ''The 400 Blows'' in the middle of the Chihuahuan Desert. As Dorn said, ''The whole point is to experience the landscape.''
 Texas has always had individuals who are ambitious about building stuff, if only from an anxiety about living in such a remote, often unlovely place. But precisely because they live in such a place, under conditions that promote self-reliance, they value what is adventurous. ''What makes Texas so compelling is this great, open, friendly culture where you really feel you can do whatever you want,'' said Knudson, who is married to the performance artist Michael Galbreth and lives in a corrugated-metal-sided home, almost a warehouse. ''More so than other places in the country.'' Why should that matter more today than in the past? Because we live in a homogenized world. We drink the same Starbucks, wake up in the same sensory-neutralizing hotels and wear the same clothes. Fashion contributes to this hollowed-out feeling by endlessly appropriating the past and using the cult of personality as a substitute for substance. That's a generalization, but you know what I mean. Is a Marni blouse going to change the way you look at the world? Is it going to make you happy? No, but maybe a beautiful building or a Calatrava bridge will. In Texas, they get it.
 As Bill Wittliff, who wrote the screenplay for ''Lonesome Dove,'' said, ''It's simply a place where people want to do something more than they want to be somebody.'' Twenty years ago, Wittliff and his wife, Sally, started the Southwestern Writers Collection in San Marcos. ''If your concentration is on being somebody,'' he continued, ''then the work is totally different, and I think it has less of a chance of being something with meaning and endurance.'' 
 There is another inescapable fact about Texas. And that is the importance of land in the identity of Texans. ''Of all the other systems of values, like style, there is still land,'' David Heymann, an associate dean of architecture at the University of Texas, told me one evening in Austin as we drove through a subdivision of McMansions to reach a stunningly modern house that he is building for a client. And, indeed, as Texans confront the ever-growing problem of sprawl and McMansionism, it's interesting to see how people make connections between ordinary daily life and nature.
 So I went to Texas. At Art Palace, I stood looking at the small group of paintings and drawings that Ali, who was silent, had curated. I'm not an art critic, but I felt an exhilaration seeing the work. I told her it was exactly what I'd hoped to find. Later, when I spoke to Palacios, he said of the artists he represents, ''They're all young, and there's a sense of urgency about them.'' I heard similar comments from other dealers in Texas.
 Ali asked me what kind of story I was writing. I would later spend a lot of time with her, and with a curator named Risa Puleo and an artist named Rebecca Ward, the four of us driving through the hot Texas days in Rebecca's maroon Camry to visit studios and eat Tex-Mex. One morning they took me over to see an artist and recent University of Texas graduate named Christa Palazzolo. Palazzolo, in an apron, was in her kitchen working on a photo-realistic painting of Loretta Lynn surrounded by a surrealistic group of animals. She explained that it was for a one-night show later that week.
 ''Just one night?'' I said.
 She smiled. ''Just one night.''
 I did my best to explain to Ali what I was doing so far from home.
 She smiled opaquely. ''So it's like Kerouac.''
 I laughed. ''Yeah, that sounds right.''
 he striking fact about the house at 8605 Preston Road in Dallas is not that it was designed by an eminent Modernist architect but, rather, that its owners did not betray a classic elitist impulse to shield the home from the public with trees and a discouraging wall. Howard and Cindy Rachofsky's house by Richard Meier, set on three and a half open acres with sculpture like Paul McCarthy's big, wacky ''Apple Heads,'' seems to invite people to gaze. Enjoy!
 Howard Rachofsky, when I saw him in June with his wife and another couple, Deedie and Rusty Rose, explained that the decision to site the house in full view of a busy road fit with his beliefs about the role of architecture, which, along with a passion for contemporary art, has evolved over the last 25 years. ''Architecture transforms people,'' Rachofsky, a former hedge-fund manager who favors bright Italian shirts and white trousers, said. The house's popularity, though, had an unexpected consequence. ''Everybody and his uncle wanted to borrow it for some kind of event,'' he said. ''And, in a fun way, it drove us from the house.'' Last year, the Rachofskys and Roses, along with their friends Marguerite and Robert Hoffman, jointly pledged their collections to the Dallas Museum of Art, with the Rachofskys throwing in the Meier house. They live elsewhere, using the house for events and to display pieces from their collection.
 If an evening at the Rachofskys discourages anything, it is the view that you can't be rich Republicans (the Roses are good friends of President and Laura Bush) and also practice democratic beliefs; that you can't influence your world (Deedie led the search to hire Koolhaas for the Dallas theater and also proposed Heymann to design the Bushes' modern house at Crawford) without acting from elitist assumptions. 
 I'm sure there are people in the fashion industry who would be surprised and relieved to learn that Dallas isn't the big-hair capital anymore, but if that's all they think, they are indeed peering down from their ivory towers as Texans gaze at modernist sugar lumps.
 I had trusted Texas to show me what was possible if you left the East, if you believed in your own eyes and ears, but after five days on the road, of blatting highways and three or four good but disconnected experiences, I was beginning to wonder if Texas wasn't, as Texans fear, an endless corridor of Wal-Marts and Sonic burger drive-throughs. I wanted an experience that was unmistakably Texan in its felicity and directness, yet able to satisfy a world-devourer, and I found it on South Congress Avenue in Austin, at the Hotel San Jose.
 It's impossible to describe the effect of the San Jose, because words like ''homey'' and ''authentic'' also conjure up lace curtains and wagon-wheel tables. Mention the concrete floors and simply furnished rooms, with low pine beds and white linens, and it sounds Miami Kitsch; describe the native plantings, dirt paths and lively courtyard, and it sounds Austin Hippie. It is neither. The San Jose is a good example of how a true vernacular design, combined with a modest sense of luxury, can create a singularly pleasing experience.
 The hotel was a drive-up fleabag when Liz Lambert, a former Manhattan assistant prosecutor with roots in West Texas, bought it, in 1995, and though she used an architect, Bob Harris of San Antonio's Lake/Flato, they resisted making it look ''designed.'' ''What I hate about most places,'' Lambert said, ''is that it's presented to you all done, instead of letting a place go.'' Her next project is a tent motel, with vintage trailers, in Marfa. ''To find a way to sleep under the stars instead of in a hotel room, and to experience the desert in a closer way -- that's the idea,'' she said. She's calling it El Cosmico.
 The first time I was in San Antonio was in the early 90's, to interview Tommy Lee Jones, and we had lunch at the Liberty Bar with his young children and then drove to his ranch in West Texas. You could do things like that then. The second time I was in San Antonio, in June, I went to the Liberty Bar with Lawrence Markey, a New York art dealer who recently relocated his gallery, and was immediately and pleasantly freaked to see Jones, who was having lunch with his wife, Dawn. He remembered me. (''Your hair is different.'') We talked about the movie he was planning to make of Ernest Hemingway's ''Islands in the Stream,'' for which his friend Wittliff is writing the screenplay, and I told him I was in Texas in lieu of going to Vilnius. He frowned ruggedly.
 San Antonio has the dusty dryness of an old Spanish city. It's also one of the coolest places on the planet, with its own musical genius and art scene. One night I ran into Ali and the girls at a gallery opening, and they took me over to Sala Diaz, one of the earliest of the grass-roots galleries. There was a huge party going on in the backyard; the next night, too. People were blond, brown, poor, white and everything in between. ''Diversity really affects everyday life in San Antonio,'' said the artist Franco Mondini-Ruiz, who, after living in New York and Rome, recently bought his great-grandmother's house in the barrio. ''I thought Rome was going to be more like a Fellini movie, a 'Satyricon.' But in San Antonio I live in 'Satyricon.' It's very immediate living here. There is a still a cultural and class colonial war going on, every single day.'' Though the outside of his house is plain, the inside is another world -- the cultural war, if you will, inside Mondini-Ruiz's head. There is glamorous New York, registered in a white 70's sofa; Rome, in the crackled kitchen floor (actually torn linoleum he left alone); Tex-Mex, in the salvaged layers and cool, bottle-green darkness.
 ''See that juxtaposition?'' he said, pointing to a small flat-screen TV mounted between two porcelain sculptures. ''That took seven generations to happen. It did. It took me going to law school and growing up in a white neighborhood. That is my great-grandma, that is tacky Mexican lady, that is chic gay guy. And it took seven generations for it all to trickle into how I arranged those things.''
 Very few Americans are aware that when the Bushes visit their ranch in Crawford, they're staying not in the humble farmhouse of news photos but rather in a totally ''green'' single-story limestone house. People might be surprised that a man whose intentions are frequently questioned lives in a house where there is no vertical transition -- you enter straight from the lawn; where there is no formal front door but instead a series of doors that also serve as windows. ''The Bushes are only there for a short time, and every experience should be concrete,'' the architect David Heymann said, adding: ''It's a very searing landscape. There's no middle ground. There's you and the infinite.''
 It was my last evening in Texas. I'd waited in Austin for Heymann to return from a vacation in Spain with his family. Now we were driving to the hilltop house of a private client. I think Heymann is one of the sanest people I've ever met. Gangling, with sandy hair and glasses, he speaks with enormous energy and passion. He says things about the land and ordinary life that just make sense. For instance, the Bush house has a surrounding porch shaded by the roof. There are no gutters; it's a ground system. At one end of the house there is a wide porch. ''When it rains you get this wall of water on three sides with a fireplace on the fourth side,'' he said. ''You get this direct and immediate connection with the landscape. It's totally easy.''
 We had reached the top of the hill. It was going to be an impressive house, shaped like a flying wedge in glass and limestone. Like the Bush place, it makes simple connections with the landscape. As Heymann led me around to the back, he said, ''The house is set up so that this view is dead west and that one is dead north.
 ''C'mon, I'll show you something,'' he added, and we went into the house and climbed up several flights of stairs, stepping over construction debris.
 At the top we were on a crow's-nest. You could see Austin and the green belt around Barton Springs. Behind us, over corniced subdivisions, was the hazy Texas sunset. Heymann sat down on a bench and said, fondly: ''The idea was to have this spot where you could basically sit and drink. Just sit and drink.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: For art's sake A group of young artists gathers at Art Palace in Austin, Tex. Seated on the floor is Ali Fitzgerald, one of the gallery's curators.
 Texas high-low From left, the design of the Hotel San Jose in Austin is both casual and sophisticated. In the barrio of San Antonio, Franco Mondini-Ruiz's house, once the home of his great-grandmother, mixes 70's New York with Tex-Mex and Rome. In their Richard Meier house in Dallas, Howard and Cindy Rachofsky show their contemporary-art collection, including a Styrofoam sculpture by Tom Friedman and a painting by Andro Wekua. (Photographs by by Dan Forbes. All other photographs by Peter Rad.Neon By Lite Brite Neon Studio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (79%); VISUAL ARTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PAINTING (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%) Art

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Cathy Horyn

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (97%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (52%) UNITED STATES (97%); LITHUANIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); INDIA (52%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



507 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Stampedes a Texas Town, And Tranquillity Rides Into the Sunset

BYLINE: By WHITNEY JOINER

DATELINE: MARFA, Tex. 

 BODY:
UNTIL six months ago W. E. Love, also known as Chip, had not particularly intended to carry on his family's cinematic legacy. Then Joel and Ethan Coen came to town.
 Like many people raised in this isolated West Texas town near the Mexican border, Mr. Love, 49, grew up with a small connection to Hollywood: his grandmother was an extra in the 1956 film ''Giant.'' That Texas epic, touted at the time as the most expensive movie ever made, irrevocably changed Marfa, a drought-plagued ranching town that had long seen better days. The film's stars -- Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean -- drew crowds at the Hotel Paisano on Marfa's main street, and the movie employed hundreds of locals as extras. 
Operating on a somewhat less grand scale, the Coens -- the writing and directing team behind ''Fargo,'' ''The Big Lebowski'' and ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?'' -- visited Marfa last March, as they searched for ranch land on which to film their latest project, an adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's 2005 novel ''No Country for Old Men.'' Set in the late 1970's in West Texas, the story is an ultraviolent neo-western about an antelope hunter, Llewelyn Moss (played by Josh Brolin), who stumbles across $2 million in a drug deal gone awry. Moss takes off with the money, prompting a chase up and down the Mexican border, as a psychopathic hit man (Javier Bardem) follows him, leaving a slew of bodies in his wake. On their trails is the aging local sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones).
 The president of Marfa's only bank, Mr. Love also owns a cattle ranch and gave the Coens a tour of his property when they scouted locations last spring. As the filmmakers and Mr. Love sat on his back porch talking, Joel Coen asked if Mr. Love would be interested in playing a small role in the movie.
 ''He said, 'It's pretty easy -- it'll just take a couple of days,' '' Mr. Love recalled recently. '' 'But there's two bad things: You have to fall down, and you get killed.' '' (The part Mr. Coen envisioned for Mr. Love was one of the hit man's victims, who comes to a grotesquely bloody end.) Mr. Love warned the Coens that he wasn't an actor: the only time he'd performed was in a high school production of ''The Wizard of Oz.'' ''They said, 'Perfect!' '' he recalled. ''I'm kind of bashful, but I thought it'd be a real goof.''
 So on the afternoon of May 24, Mr. Love stood on a desolate desert highway west of town, surrounded by cattle ranches peppered with cactuses and jackrabbits, and, in front of a collection of cameras and crew, was shot in the head with a cattle stun gun by Mr. Bardem. Dying on camera was harder than he expected, he said, and he was disheartened by the number of takes the directors called for. ''I wanted to do well for those guys because they were so nice,'' he said. ''I felt a huge responsibility not to stink.'' 
 By now Marfans have come to take a certain amount of celebrity presence for granted, thanks to their town's reputation as an international art destination. Marfa is home to both the Chinati Foundation, a sprawling outdoor art space founded in 1979 by the minimalist artist Donald Judd, and the Lannan Foundation's writers residency program.
 But it is still three hours away from a commercial airport or a shopping mall and has just 2,400 residents, making the arrival this year of not one, but two Hollywood productions something of an event. Even as the Coens were shooting in Marfa, another well-known writer-director, Paul Thomas Anderson (''Magnolia,'' ''Punch-Drunk Love''), was preparing to shoot his first movie in four years on a 500-acre set south of town. That film, ''There Will Be Blood,'' based on Upton Sinclair's 1927 novel ''Oil!,'' is a turn-of-the-century epic starring Daniel Day-Lewis as a power-mad oil prospector whose greed menaces a small farming village. 
 The producers of both films said the presence of two major projects, bankrolled by the same studio, Paramount Vantage (with Miramax), and filmed in the same tiny town, was just a coincidence.
 ''In a lot of ways movies are run as separate companies,'' said Robert Graf, the producer of ''No Country for Old Men.'' That both movies would be in Marfa simultaneously, he said, ''was one of those things that people just sort of found out. It dawned on us slowly.'' 
 While Mr. McCarthy's novel travels through a number of towns up and down the Texas-Mexico border, Mr. Anderson's film is actually set in Bakersfield, Calif. ''Paul started searching for the location a couple of years ago,'' said JoAnne Sellar, producer of ''There Will Be Blood.'' ''He looked extensively in California, but none of the ranches had 360-degree views, where you didn't feel like a freeway or a Burger King was around the corner. Paul came to Marfa and completely fell in love with it. He couldn't shake it from his head.'' (Like the Coens, Mr. Anderson declined to be interviewed for this article.)
 While the landscape was the main draw for both productions, the town of Marfa was a factor too. An eccentric, fiercely independent place that's become a haven for artists and art tourists, Marfa has seen an upsurge in galleries, boutique hotels and print coverage in the last 10 years. The Coens became enamored with Marfa, ''as a lot of people are,'' Mr. Graf said. ''There are a lot of really interesting and fun people in Marfa.'' 
 Apart from a handful of scenes that used locals' cars as background vehicles, Mr. Love was the only Marfan to appear in the Coens' film. But Mr. Anderson's film, which shot for more than two months, employed around 350 locals, whether as one-day extras or permanent assistants. His production rented 32 houses in town and booked 400 hotel rooms, spread out through Marfa and its neighboring towns of Alpine and Fort Davis. 
 Mr. Anderson also cast local non-actors as principal characters. The primary relationship in ''There Will Be Blood'' is between Daniel Day-Lewis's character, Daniel Plainview, and his young son, H. W. After casting calls in both New York and Los Angeles, Ms. Sellar said, Mr. Anderson found the perfect H. W. in Dillon Freasier, a 10-year-old boy from Fort Davis, Tex. ''Paul's always been very much into casting real people,'' Ms. Sellar said. ''He really wanted a kid who'd grown up around ranches and horses rather than someone coming in and trying to fake that.'' 
 Mr. Anderson also cast locals as the wife and daughters of the farming family that intertwines with Mr. Day-Lewis's character throughout the film. Christine Olejniczak, 48, a visual artist who moved to Marfa six years ago, was cast as Mother Sunday, the wife and mother. When she first heard the films were coming to Marfa, Ms. Olejniczak said, ''it didn't really register as a big deal to me.'' 
 ''Just like, oh, there's going to be a lot of people in town this summer,'' she continued. ''It's funny that it would not only affect my life, but affect it so enormously. It's like I ran away to the circus, but the circus came to town instead. They taught me a trapeze act, and just when I started to get good at it, they left.''
 Though Hollywood returned to Marfa in full force this summer, these aren't the days of ''Giant.'' Neither the locals who have lived here for generations, nor the neo-Marfans drawn by the relatively recent art presence -- most of whom have moved from urban areas in which they're used to at least acting as if they don't recognize a celebrity -- seemed particularly swayed by, say, eating lunch next to Joel Coen's wife, the actress Frances McDormand, or spotting Mr. Anderson's partner, Maya Rudolph, the former ''Saturday Night Live'' cast member.
 ''A lot of people live out here in West Texas because they're pretty independent in the first place,'' said Maiya Keck, a Marfan restaurateur. ''Either they're from here and raised that way, or they've moved out here because they liked the space and solitude. They're not the kind of people who generally want to rubberneck -- or even recognize -- a celebrity.'' 
 Jason Willaford, an artist who co-owns a gallery with his wife, was instrumental in shepherding the Coens into Marfa. A hunting enthusiast who's friendly with many of the local ranchers, Mr. Willaford was able to connect the Coens with the land they might want to use. 
 The ranchers ''didn't get all gaga just because they're movie people,'' Mr. Willaford said. ''It was like, 'Well, I'm going to have to have a meeting with my family.' It's not like, 'Whoa, the movie people are coming here and we're going to drop everything for them.' ''
 Apart from the movie shoots, Marfa has seen more than its share of fame this summer. In early July the musician David Byrne stayed for a week with a crew of rowdy Texas singer-songwriters, including Terry Allen, Guy Clark, Joe Ely and Robert Earl Keen. But in some ways Marfa's shrugging attitude baffled the film crews. There are only a handful of restaurants in town, and if you're hungry past 9 p.m., you have to settle for the local gas stations' dizzying array of fried food. Both crews asked local restaurants to either open earlier or stay open later, and most declined. ''That's frustrating,'' Ms. Sellar acknowledged. ''We've been working six-day weeks, and on our one day off -- Sunday -- nothing's open. Everybody's been very welcoming, but they're like, 'We're not going to change our ways.' '' 
 Even though both crews brought in hundreds of people, many local business owners found their stay to be prohibitive to their businesses, since Marfa's economy is based on tourism. ''The movies filled up all the hotels, and they work late and are fed through their caterer,'' said Ms. Keck, the restaurateur. ''This is the first week the hotels haven't been full of movie people, and we've been so busy. I'm so glad it's back to normal. Now we can go to our coffee shop and not have to wait 45 minutes to get our cappuccino.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Josh Brolin, top, plays an antelope hunter in ''No Country for Old Men,'' a modern-day western from the Coen brothers. Bottom, a scene from ''There Will Be Blood,'' Paul Thomas Anderson's adaptation of Upton Sinclair's novel ''Oil!'' (Photos by above, Richard Foreman/Paramount Classics
below, Francois Duhamel/Miramax Films)(pg. 13)
 Chairs on the set of the Coen brothers' ''No Country for Old Men'' indicate the stars visible in Marfa, Tex. (Photo by Alberto Halpern)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (70%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Whitney Joiner

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%) Marfa (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



508 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; The Face; Pg. 158

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Painted Lady 

BYLINE: By Leslie Camhi

 BODY:
A muse's long-term career prospects are, at best, uncertain. ''After Picasso, only God,'' remarked Dora Maar, the artist's mistress and herself a gifted photographer who, after their nine-year affair, passed the latter half of her life in monastic seclusion. Modigliani's last lover, Jeanne Hebuterne, she of the swanlike neck and almond eyes, met her end with a leap from a fifth-story window, the day after her painter's untimely demise. The flame-haired Elizabeth Siddal, a favorite Pre-Raphaelite model and eventual wife of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, poisoned herself with laudanum. And Lee Miller, the celebrated beauty (and later wartime photographer) who shone like the sun in Man Ray's portraits, anesthetized herself with alcohol. Indeed, ''The Lives of the Muses,'' by Francine Prose, often reads as a cautionary tale. Survive your apotheosis into art, and you risk being sidelined by history. 
Ada Katz, whose musedom is fast approaching the half-century mark, sat at home recently, looking at some 40 of her husband's portraits of her, the focus of ''Alex Katz Paints Ada,'' a show opening at the Jewish Museum in New York on Oct. 27. (Her husband, Alex Katz, was to be interviewed later; unaccustomed, perhaps, to going second, he could be seen prowling between his studio, the kitchen and the front door.)
 Her presence is as quietly all-pervasive as the smell of oil paint in this temple of art, a luminous and sparely furnished SoHo loft. But if there's a secret to her longevity at the center of her husband's oeuvre, she's not about to reveal it. In the 1960's, he portrayed her as a sleekly mysterious American sphinx in sunglasses and a sweater. Garbo talked; Ada, never. Such is her deep reserve that you can spend a very pleasant hour tete-a-tete with her and still wonder if you have ever really met.
 In fact, her conversation has much in common with his paintings. In both, the past appears smoothed of fine lines and blemishes (if indeed it ever had any), with its broad outlines intact, a vision at once entirely matter-of-fact and oddly elusive.
 This petite woman with the uncannily familiar face was born Ada Del Moro in the Bronx to Italian parents from Abruzzi. From her mother, a practiced seamstress who for years made most of her daughter's clothing, she inherited (according to her husband) her acute sense of style and disarmingly wide smile. She says she more closely resembles her father, who had ''Asiatic eyes'' and ''sensuous lips.'' (The classic Roman nose is still unspoken for.)
 This muse trained at Brooklyn College and New York University as a research biologist. (A woman! In the 1950's! Yes, she says, there weren't many.) She went to Milan on a Fulbright scholarship to study tumor genetics and was working at Sloan-Kettering Institute in New York when she met her future spouse, during the opening of his two-person show at the artist-run Tanager Gallery, on East 10th Street. (He says she was ''already an art-world legend''; she claims that she was ''shy about going into galleries.'')
 That was in October 1957; they married the next February. Did she sense she was signing on to be represented into the next millennium? ''Never,'' she says. ''The thing I do remember from when we met is that I was sitting with my hands in my lap, and this guy that I was interested in was looking at my eyes, my ears, my shoulders. The whole thing was just very sensual. And I didn't think I could handle it. But then it became just this thing that he did. I was sitting and he was painting, and that was it.''
 Did she feel an obligation to maintain her beauty in the service of his art? ''Oh, no,'' she says with a laugh. ''I was overwhelmed at first. But he was painting other people at the same time. He did several double portraits -- of me, of Robert Rauschenberg, of others. I was very interested, I learned a lot about painting. And I loved, I mean, liked the idea that he was painting me. But after a while it wasn't such a shock.''
 Emotion held in check. That, too, is vintage Katz. (Or is it something he learned from 
 her?) Even his most intimate images, like the startlingly lush ''Upside Down Ada'' (1965) -- a cinematic, lover's-eye view, from dark, cascading hair to the barest hint of a shoulder -- are most powerful for what they don't reveal. There, viewers can only imagine the nude.
 The Ada of the paintings tends to be stylishly dressed, but her allure is less a matter of her clothes than of how she wears them. Of a shocking-pink raincoat that shows up in one canvas against a dramatic black background, she recalls: ''It was very cheap. In fact, I bought another one in navy.''
 ''The Black Dress'' (1960), an Egyptianate frieze of six raven-haired Adas posing next to Katz's portrait of their friend, the poet James Schuyler, suggests the admiring glances of a husband who notes his supremely poised wife and her compact economy of gesture from across a crowded room; her aura is at once understated and utterly constant, like the idea of God or the weather. The dress, Ada says, was ''nothing extraordinary,'' though his picture of her in it summons a Platonic ideal of cocktail attire and comportment.
 Their early life together revolved around an art world, tiny by today's standards, and its rituals -- Tuesday-night openings uptown, Fridays at the Club on Eighth Street, Saturday outings to galleries and museums. Sometimes she'd accompany him to the Cedar Street Tavern, the legendary artists' hangout, where, a decade earlier, Jackson Pollock might have been found pulling off the men's-room door.
 Then, as now, her ubiquity in her husband's art inspired a certain degree of speculation. ''Elaine de Kooning said, 'Oh, well, you paint Ada all the time because her face has an easy outline, and she never changes her hair or anything,''' Ada recalls. ''Another time, she told me, 'I'm looking at your face, and you and Harold Rosenberg''' -- the art critic -- '''are the only ones who have those thick eyebrows.' I thought, Oh, my God, that was very funny.''
 And this is one muse who says she never gave her immortality in art a second thought. When the couple's son, Vincent, a poet, was born in 1960, Ada left her job, never to return, but her roles in the paintings expanded. The bathing beauty, the chicly retiring bohemian, the cocktail hostess and (increasingly) the self-assured woman of the world could also be cast as an up-to-date Madonna. (Starting around midmarriage and continuing for about a decade, she produced plays with poets and artists, though she downplays the endeavor as ''not a moneymaker.'') Most people have family photo albums from when their children are young; the Katzes have a body of work. ''We didn't take pictures of each other,'' she recalls. ''He painted.''
 Alex Katz, when he sits down a bit later, calls his wife ''the perfect model.''
 ''She's both a European beauty and an American beauty,'' he says. ''She's like Dora Maar, the same kind of face, but then her smile is the American-beauty smile.''
 His continuing fascination with her visage is evident even in a canvas from last year; though her hair is now smartly streaked with gray, she's still forthright and inscrutable.
 ''It's strange, the whole thing,'' he continues. ''Ada was on a Madame Curie track, working 60 hours a week. She didn't have that much intention of getting married. And I believe there were probably three guys in New York she could relate to. So I just got lucky. I fit what she wanted, or what would have been acceptable.''
 So it was all up to her? ''Yes, definitely,'' he replies. ''No one in their right mind would have said no'' to her.
 This muse chose her artist. Did she also mold him? By what magical osmosis did her fiercely willed modesty come to resemble the supremely controlled surface of his art? Rubbing up against his uncompromising vision for some 50 years may have worn the rough edges of her personality so smooth that they're barely perceptible, but she says: ''We don't have ups and downs. We live together, and he works right here. So if it were really bad, we'd have to stop.''
 And to hear him tell it, she's the unyielding one. ''She's intense,'' he claims. ''There's no second place in her life. That's the side you don't see. She's very discreet about that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The evening muse Alex Katz depicts his wife, Ada, in ''The Black Dress'' (1960).
Portraits of a lady ''Ada'' (2005), left, and ''Ada With Bathing Cap'' (1965). Ada Katz says she never felt obligated to maintain her beauty for her husband's art. (Photographs by ARTWORK $
 ALEX KATZ/LICENSED BY VAGA, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PAINTING (78%); POISONINGS (69%) Art; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Jewish Museum (NYC)

PERSON: Alex Katz; Ada Katz; Leslie Camhi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



509 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 27, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	2	2	5	ANGELS FALL, by Nora Roberts. (Putnam, $25.95.) When a chef from Boston, now living in Wyoming, witnesses a murder, the locals won't believe her.		 	 	 	3		1	CRISIS, by Robin Cook. (Putnam, $25.95.) There are shocking revelations at a medical malpractice trial.		 	 	 	4	3	3	THE MESSENGER, by Daniel Silva. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gabriel Allon, an art restorer and an occasional spy for the Israeli secret service, uncovers an Al Qaeda plot against the Vatican.		 	 	 	5	4	4	THE RUINS, by Scott Smith. (Knopf, $24.95.) Two young American couples on vacaton in the Yucatan confront a horrible menace.		 	 	 	6	8	6	CAN'T WAIT TO GET TO HEAVEN, by Fannie Flagg. (Random House, $25.95.) A return to Elmwood Springs, Mo., the setting of Flagg's ''Standing in the Rainbow.''		 	 	 	7	5	4	PHANTOM, by Terry Goodkind. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) The latest volume of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series.		 	 	 	8		1	HAPPINESS SOLD SEPARATELY, by Lolly Winston. (Warner, $21.99.) A marriage is strained by infertility and infidelity.		 	 	 	9	6	8	TWELVE SHARP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) The bounty hunter Stephanie Plum must find a killer and rescue a kidnapped child.		 	 	 	10	7	8	WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, by Sara Gruen. (Algonquin, $23.95.) A young man -- and an elephant -- save a Depression-era circus.		 	 	 	11	9	4	PEGASUS DESCENDING, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) In the 15th Dave Robicheaux novel, the Louisiana detective pursues cases that lead back to the killing of his best friend 25 years earlier.		 	 	 	12		1	THE NIGHT GARDENER, by George Pelecanos. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) Three Washington cops reunite to solve a murder that resembles a 20-year-old cold case.		 	 	 	13	13	7	COMING OUT, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $20.) An attorney's household is thrown into chaos when her daughters receive an invitation to a debutante ball.		 	 	 	14	12	4	SLEEPING WITH FEAR, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $25.) A psychic F.B.I. agent comes under attack by someone who can control dark forces. The last volume in Hooper's ''Fear'' trilogy.		 	 	 	15	10	3	DEAD WRONG, by J. A. Jance. (Morrow, $25.95.)While awaiting her second child's birth, Sheriff Joanna Brady must find out who savagely beat one of her officers.		 	 	 	16*	11	3	THE EXPECTED ONE, by Kathleen McGowan. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) An American journalist in France finds scrolls hidden by Mary Magdalene.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	2	43	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	4	2	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	3	1	3	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (The Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the Bush administration's and the military's failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contribued to its further growth.		 	 	 	4	3	71	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	5		1	THE LOOMING TOWER, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf, $27.95.) The road to 9/11 as seen through the lives of terrorist planners and the F.B.I. counterrorism chief.		 	 	 	6	5	70	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	7	15	12	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	8	11	14	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	9	9	10	GODLESS, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $27.95.) The columnist argues that liberalism is a religion with sacraments, a creation myth and a clergy.		 	 	 	10	6	5	CONSERVATIVES WITHOUT CONSCIENCE, by John W. Dean. (Viking, $25.95.) The authoritarian character of contemporary conservative beliefs and attitudes.		 	 	 	11	10	4	THE LANGUAGE OF GOD, by Francis S. Collins. (Free Press, $26.) The head of the Human Genome Project argues that faith in God and faith in science can coexist.		 	 	 	12	8	8	THE ONE PERCENT DOCTRINE, by Ron Suskind. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The role of ideology and personality in the Bush administration's decision to go to war.		 	 	 	13	13	76	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	14	7	3	INSIGHT, by Sylvia Browne. (Dutton, $25.95.) The self-proclaimed psychic describes cases from her 50-year career.		 	 	 	15	14	5	THE LONG TAIL, by Chris Anderson. (Hyperion, $24.95.) How the Internet has changed business so that its future requires ''selling less of more.''		 	 	 	16*		1	STUMBLING ON HAPPINESS, by Daniel Gilbert. (Knopf, $24.95.) A Harvard professor explores why people can't predict what will make them happy.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Aug. 12, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

JAMES TIPTREE, JR.: The Double Life of Alice B. Sheldon, by Julie Phillips. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) A biography of the complex woman who, as James Tiptree Jr., found in science fiction the perfect genre for telling her own story.
 THE THREE MUSKETEERS, by Alexandre Dumas. Translated with an introduction by Richard Pevear. (Viking, $35.) Pevear's translation briskly conveys Dumas's singular style.
 HALF LIFE, by Shelley Jackson. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) One conjoined sister despises the other in this futuristic black-comedy novel. 
 THE GIRLS, by Lori Lansens. (Little, Brown, $23.95.) An engagingly perverse novel about twins conjoined spiritually as well as physically.
 LBJ: Architect of American Ambition, by Randall B. Woods. (Free Press, $35.) Lyndon Johnson's greatness is on display along with his flaws in this sympathetic and nuanced biography. 
 MALORY: The Knight Who Became King Arthur's Chronicler, by Christina Hardyment. (HarperCollins, $29.95.) The strange case of Sir Thomas Malory, author of ''Le Morte d'Arthur.'' 
 THREE DAYS TO NEVER, by Tim Powers. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A lost discovery of Einstein propels this genre-blending thriller. 
 YOU'RE NOT YOU, by Michelle Wildgen. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $23.95.) In this novel, an aimless student develops bonds with the ill but vital woman she is hired to care for. 
 GHOST HUNTERS: William James and the Search for Scientific Proof of Life After Death, by Deborah Blum. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) An account of 19th-century attempts to provide rigorous, empirical evidence of a spiritual realm.
 A LAND GONE LONESOME: An Inland Voyage Along the Yukon River, by Dan O'Neill. (Counterpoint, $24.95.) O'Neill explores the ghost towns of the Yukon's boom-and-bust past.
 THE SEDUCER, by Jan Kjaerstad. Translated by Barbara J. Haveland. (Overlook, $27.95.) A wry, big-hearted novel about a remarkable man who is ''Norway's greatest television talent.'' 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (73%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (73%); RELIGION (70%); SCANDALS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



510 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Offering Prizes to New-Home Buyers

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
BUYERS are said to have the upper hand these days in the market for residential real estate, and this is reflected in the elaborate presents and price breaks that consumers are being offered to purchase homes in new developments.
 At the Ocean Acres at Barnegat development, where hundreds of single-family homes are being built near Barnegat Bay, several buyers await delivery of new Toyota Yaris hatchbacks, which will arrive in their garages early next year at the time of their closings, courtesy of the developer, Walters Homes.
Last month, in the Poconos, the Teicher Organization was giving away new Mazda Miata convertibles to those who signed contracts on the weekend when sales opened for its new Mystic Pines Townhomes development at the Pinecrest Lake Golf and Country Club. 
 At the Devonshire, a new development of 68 estate-style homes in Monroe, buyers are being guaranteed a 30-year mortgage with a rate of only 6 percent, with the rate locked in until closing -- plus a minimum of $20,000 in cash and six months without mortgage payments.
 That interest rate compares with a average rate of 6.6 percent for a 30-year mortgage in New Jersey as of Aug. 18. On a $600,000 loan, the lower interest rate would bring down the monthly mortgage payment by about $235 a month.
 The program at Devonshire is promoted by the developer, Matzel & Mumford, as providing ''peace of mind'' for buyers in the development, which has four- and five-bedroom homes priced from $694,900. The below-market-interest-rate incentive is scheduled to expire at the end of the month.
 But other companies continue to come up with new ideas to entice potential homeowners to set aside their anxiety about climbing mortgage interest rates and buy now.
 The Kaplan Companies of Highland Park, for one, appears to be going to unusual lengths to persuade prospective buyers that they have nothing to lose by making a purchase. For the next 60 home buyers at its current New Jersey projects -- Towne Lake and Harbour Pointe at La Mer, both in Sayreville; the Heights of Hampton; the Woodfield at Mount Olive; the Villages at Cinnaminson Harbour; and the Ambiance at Hackensack -- the company is offering a plan intended to provide full protection against the vagaries of the housing market over the next three years.
 ''We will buy back any home we sell -- at the price paid -- at any time in the next three years, should the market price of that home fall,'' said Jason Kaplan, president of the Kaplan Companies.
 Kaplan also promises to pay closing costs for home buyers who want to refinance their mortgages during the next three years.
 For potential buyers who may be having difficulty selling a home they currently own, Kaplan is offering to buy the house. And for those who are renters and need to break a lease, it is offering to pay the cost of doing so.
 Finally, the company is holding out a safety net to buyers who lose their jobs within the next three years. In the event of that disaster, Kaplan will pay the mortgage for up to one full year.
 As always with eyebrow-raising offers, certain conditions apply. For example, there is the matter of setting a price for a customer's current house. ''We will buy at market price, based on comps'' -- sales prices for comparable homes in the same neighborhood -- ''factoring in a real estate broker's commission,'' Mr. Kaplan said.
 But given that the market slowed markedly last spring, producing an eight-month backlog of homes for sale around the state, Kaplan's offer removes the significant burden of having to wait to sell in order to buy, Mr. Kaplan said.
 ''It's a soft market for sellers, but a strong market for buyers right now,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''We really wanted to get the attention of buyers.''
 ''I just bought my own house'' in Short Hills, Mr. Kaplan said, ''and I was able to negotiate the price, while I know that a year ago I would have been just another one of those bidding on it, which was crazy.'' 
 Mr. Kaplan said the biggest concern of people looking at Kaplan's various communities of single-family homes and town homes right now seems to be: If I buy now, will the value of the home hold up?
 ''We are confident that the homes we build are priced right, and that nothing drastic is happening with the market,'' he said. ''We are basically just putting our name and wallet behind it.'' 
 Kaplan, like other large home building companies in New Jersey, has houses for sale in many places and price ranges -- and Mr. Kaplan said the market situation appears similar across the board.
 ''Any product, any price, any geographical area of New Jersey,'' he said, ''if stuff is overpriced, people are just not buying. If it is priced right, then it will move.'' 
 Starting prices for Kaplan's condominiums at the Villages at Cinnaminson Harbour, along the Delaware River in Burlington County, are set in the low $200,000's, mid-$200,000's and low $300,000's, for three different designs.
 The units at the Harbour Pointe at La Mer, which all have two bedrooms and two baths, are priced from the mid-$300,000's. Condos at the Ambiance at Hackensack are priced from the low $400,000's.
 Single-family homes and larger town homes at the Heights of Hampton, Woodfield at Mount Olive and Towne Lake have prices starting in the $500,000's, Mr. Kaplan said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PROMOTING 'PEACE OF MIND' -- At the Devonshire in Monroe, top, buyers are being guaranteed a 30-year mortgage with a rate of only 6 percent
 at Towne Lake in Sayreville, bottom, the builder will buy back any home within three years. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (88%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); MOUNTAINS (67%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages

COMPANY: MATZEL & MUMFORD (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (66%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%) UNITED STATES (90%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



511 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Last Call for a Chugger and a Sipper; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: The Once and Future Mileage King

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
CAN an automobile be ahead of its time and yet be obsolete? As it heads into retirement, the Honda Insight certainly looks that way. 
 When it was introduced in 1999 as the first gasoline-electric hybrid sold in America in modern times, it was also the most fuel-efficient mass-produced car. Although production ended this summer, it remains the nation's mileage champ after seven years.
Honda says the Insight will be replaced in two years with a more versatile, more advanced hybrid subcompact -- though not necessarily one that's more fuel efficient. 
 The still-futuristic-looking Insight, with its distinctive 67-horsepower 3-cylinder gasoline engine and 14-horsepower electric assist motor, was never redesigned or updated. A continuously variable transmission and an air-conditioner were made available in the second model year; neither was offered on the original 2000 model because Honda wanted to keep weight down and fuel economy at a maximum. 
 The strategy worked, as the Insight earned an E.P.A. mileage estimate of 70 miles a gallon in highway driving; its city rating was 61 m.p.g. With air-conditioning, the rating dropped to 66/60, and to 57/56 with the variable transmission and air-conditioning.
 But as the old disclaimer says, ''Your mileage may vary.'' Over the years, Insight aficionados entertained themselves by trying to outdo one another in using the least gas to cover the same ground.
 The Insight was first shown in late 1999, when gasoline averaged $1.39 a gallon; Honda challenged several automotive magazines to a fuel economy contest on a 195-mile trip from Columbus, Ohio, to Detroit.
 The staff of Car and Driver magazine rigged up a hulking Ford Excursion with essentially a large box behind it, in which the Insight could be driven in a nearly drag-free aerodynamic environment. 
 The magazine's technical editor, the late Don Schroeder, drove the Insight safely within the confines of this box, just inches behind the Excursion's rear bumper. The magazine won the contest, achieving 121.7 m.p.g. at an average speed of 58 m.p.h. 
 Two years later, the same magazine (with different editors) reported disappointing mileage over a long-term (40,000 mile) test of an Insight with air-conditioning. That Insight averaged 48 m.p.g., but the editors still praised the car for its ''engineering brilliance'' and stellar reliability.
 A lively debate continues over the actual mileage that an Insight can attain in real-world driving. Most owners seem to get the advertised mileage, if not more, but a few complain that their fuel economy is disappointing.
 The best generalization I can make is this: If you drive the car badly, you will get bad mileage. Jack-rabbit starts, choppy acceleration and over-revving the engine before shifting will result in poor economy -- as low as 18 m.p.g., in my experience. But judicious use of throttle, brakes and transmission can yield impressively higher results.
 In a test of the departing 2006 model, equipped with a continuously variable transmission -- less fuel-efficient than the standard five-speed manual -- I drove from Los Angeles to Las Vegas on a summer's day with temperatures topping 105 degrees. Traveling at speed on Interstate 15 and sections of historic Route 66, I experimented with different driving styles and with the air-conditioner on and off. 
 My route alternated between stretches at sea level and elevations around 4,000 feet. One problem was finding a free-flowing section of road, without constipated traffic, where I could cruise without interruption.
 The duck-tailed Insight, which weighs a scant 1,850 pounds, seemed to float across the road like a hovercraft. Its suspension, tuned for minimum rolling resistance, followed every pavement imperfection. Its skinny, hard 14-inch tires -- designed for low rolling resistance and high mileage -- squirmed on grooved pavement. Road noise flooded the cabin.
 But the Insight consumes less than a supermodel. In my best segment, running alone at about 55 m.p.h. into a strong headwind, I managed to achieve mileage of a little over 118 m.p.g. for 22 miles (according to the readout of its on-board computer, which seemed very accurate). But I had to abort my economy run when the traffic slowed. 
 The trick if there is one, is starting off conservatively and then maintaining a steady speed. Unlike the Toyota Prius, which can run on either the gas engine or electric motor, the Insight's gas engine is always propelling the car, sometimes with an electric assist and sometimes without it. To get optimum mileage while cruising in a Prius, you need to coax it into electric-only mode by letting off slightly on the throttle; in the Insight, you accelerate as gently as possible and then carefully maintain a steady speed.
 Driving partly in this manner, and partly more aggressively, I averaged nearly 70 m.p.h. on my Los Angeles-to-Las Vegas round trip -- about 600 miles -- on a single 10.6-gallon tank of regular unleaded. Many vehicles I've driven on this stretch over the years have been lucky to make it one way without refueling, even with tanks twice as large.
 While the Insight was a mileage giant, it fell on its face in the marketplace. Instead of having to limit yearly sales to 6,500, as the company had originally planned, Honda has struggled some years to sell half that number. When the last few models remaining on dealer lots are gone, sometime this fall, Honda estimates that total global sales for the entire model run will probably amount to less than 18,000.
 All right, it's a tiny two-seater without a trunk, with sometimes curious handling and indifferent comfort. It requires more trade-offs than most Americans are willing to make. Its sticker prices of $19,330 to $21,530 are high for a subcompact. And larger, more versatile hybrid cars, like the Honda Civic Hybrid and the Toyota Prius, cost little more. 
 But if gasoline prices continue to balloon -- perhaps by the time they hit $4 or $5 a gallon -- it may dawn on more drivers in gas guzzlers that the Insight was ahead of its time. 
 By then, however, it will be gone.

INSIDE TRACK: Ennui killed this electric car.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Honda Insight has changed little since it went on sale as a 2000 model. (pg. 1)
 By closely following a Ford Excursion that cut a path through the air, Car and Driver magazine attained 121.7 m.p.g. in an Insight. (Photo by Car and Driver)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%) Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



512 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Parking Headaches At Train Stations

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 With taxes, traffic and parking becoming the mantra for complaints by homeowners and business owners across Long Island, your Aug. 13 article ''Same Problem, Different Stations'' applies throughout our region. 
 In Syosset, the Long Island Rail Road parking lots are full before 7:30 each weekday, forcing the overflow to encroach upon the residential streets far beyond the immediate areas containing the commuter-intended parking restrictions. This also causes detriment to the downtown business district by exhausting the available customer parking.
Hicksville and many other stations along the Port Jefferson line suffer the same dilemma, and both Hicksville and Syosset would benefit significantly from a Metropolitan Transportation Authority proposal to build a modern, high-capacity station between them. Parking problems, downtown congestion and emerging railroad safety conditions would be addressed in both areas. 
 Additionally, the outdated infrastructure in both downtowns could receive much-needed improvements as outlined in already established and approved Town of Oyster Bay revitalization plans.

ROBERT ROCKELEIN
Syosset

The writer is a member of the Syosset Chamber of Commerce.

To the Editor:
 Your article about commuter parking did not mention political reasons that created and perpetuate the problem. Before railroads went bankrupt, they provided parking to attract customers. When they became publicly subsidized, most parking lots were given or sold to communities, and local politicians reserved them for residents. 
 Railroads are open ''systems.'' When parking is restricted, it becomes a ''closed'' system, difficult to manage. With dual wage-earners, ridership requires parking. Without it, it is necessary to increase public subsidies. 
 The overarching goal of transportation authorities must be to improve service and increase ridership. Perhaps transit authorities should set deadlines for increasing parking or impose a ''private parking premium'' to tickets from restricted parking communities, and have that ''premium'' subsidize costs for communities with open public parking.
 To challenge the current politically restricted parking requires strong state leadership that may conflict with home rule. But when public money subsidizes public transportation, service must be open to everyone. Only when such politically restricted parking is challenged can America have self-sustaining, growing, vibrant rail service.

Jack R. Stokvis
Haworth, N.J.

The writer was assistant secretary for community planning and development at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 1981-88.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); WRITERS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CITIES (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%) Railroads; Parking Garages and Lots; Commuting; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

PERSON: Jack R Stokvis; Larry Littlefield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



513 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Parking Headaches At Train Stations

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your article about commuter parking (''Same Problem, Different Stations,'' Aug. 13) did not mention political reasons that created and perpetuate the problem. Before railroads went bankrupt, they provided parking to attract customers. When they became publicly subsidized, most parking lots were given or sold to communities, and local politicians reserved them for residents. 
 Railroads are open ''systems.'' When parking is restricted, it becomes a ''closed'' system, difficult to manage. With dual wage-earners, ridership requires parking. Without it, it is necessary to increase public subsidies.
The overarching goal of transportation authorities must be to improve service and increase ridership. Perhaps transit authorities should set deadlines for increasing parking or impose a ''private parking premium'' to tickets from restricted parking communities, and have that ''premium'' subsidize costs for communities with open public parking.
 To challenge the current politically restricted parking requires strong state leadership that may conflict with home rule. But when public money subsidizes public transportation, service must be open to everyone. Only when such politically restricted parking is challenged can America have self-sustaining, growing, vibrant rail service.

Jack R. Stokvis
Haworth, N.J.

The writer was assistant secretary for community planning and development at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 1981-88.

To the Editor:
 ''Same Problem, Different Stations'' states ''more than 7,000 people board commuter trains each day at the Princeton Junction station, but there are only enough parking spaces for about half of them.'' That means if half of the people using the station were willing to catch rides with others who live nearby, and those who live nearby were willing to drive them, the problem would go away. 
 The problem, therefore, is that people are unwilling to cooperate in any way.
 Towns and commuter rail stations should simply limit station parking to those willing to drive people each way. A system could be developed to match drivers and riders for each trip. (I proposed such a system in 1994, while I was a regional economist at New York's Department of City Planning.) 
 Those riding, rather than driving, would save not only gas and parking, but also perhaps the fixed cost of owning and insuring an additional automobile.

Larry Littlefield
Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CITIES (86%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Railroads; Parking Garages and Lots; Commuting; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: Jack R Stokvis; Larry Littlefield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



514 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing across the region, new census data show.
 According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to 2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city, compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.
''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation, and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''
 Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated, among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to draw highly skilled and educated workers. 
 Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region. Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.
 So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing friction with some residents over crowded housing. 
 And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.
 The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2 percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.
 Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and housing that is hard to afford.
 ''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and affordable housing.''
 In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000 to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000. 
 Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.
 The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes. The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school enrollments and previous censuses.
 The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern Westchester.
 In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.
 In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and Passaic, stopped growing or declined.
 Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the suburbs.
 So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.
 ''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.
 ''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.
 In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing, and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable. 
 ''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said. 
 The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great conflict. 
 Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as a working-class community.
 ''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around, blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''
 The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990, according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.
 Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed harassment.
 The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''
 Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing. 
 ''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''
 James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs because there is little public transportation.
 ''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''
 The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their legal status.
 ''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''
 Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.
 ''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''
 The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30 percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English. 
 The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be more insular and less involved in the schools. 
 ''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District on Long Island. 
 But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.
 ''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''
 Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities, including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y. Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants, including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005''Graph tracks top 25 countries of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for 2000 and 2005.(Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (92%); SUBURBS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Suburbs; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



515 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Paying to Play at School

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
IN Glen Ridge, N.J., students participating in extracurricular activities must pay $200. In Haddonfield, a South Jersey district, the high school's annual fee is $100. This fall, Washington Township in Mercer County, N.J., will institute a $100 activities charge for the first time. And in Madison, Conn., high school students must pay a $75 registration fee for each sport they play.
 These pay-to-play charges, initiated by many school districts in the last decade as a way to raise money, are becoming more prevalent in states that permit them. But they are not universally popular: School districts' increasing fondness for the fees has prompted one New Jersey assemblyman to propose a ban.
 ''We are hearing that more and more boards are considering or implementing these fees,'' said Thomas Hutton, staff lawyer for the National School Boards Association. ''There are a lot of parents who know that the choice is to eliminate programs, and they don't want that.'' 
 In Connecticut, about 40 of the 166 public school districts charge an activity fee, said Vincent A. Mustaro, a senior staff associate for the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education. That estimate reflects the last survey of districts about the fees in 2004. ''It's a way of meeting budget, and it's a better alternative than eliminating programs,'' Mr. Mustaro said.
 In New Jersey, about a dozen of the state's 615 school districts charge fees. ''You see this when boards are faced with tough economic decisions,'' said Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. ''It's not something a board establishes happily.'' 
 But it is something that more New Jersey districts are pondering after five years of little increase in state aid for education. Local voters are clearly getting restive with ever-higher budgets: Only 53.4 percent of the districts won voter approval for their budgets in spring elections this year. The rate was the lowest since 1994, Mr. Yaple said.
 ''Charging a fee can be a difficult choice,'' he said. ''It's certainly not something all parents will support.'' 
 Julie Ross, a mother of three, will be paying the fee this year for her 14-year-old son, Max, so he can participate in clubs at Glen Ridge High School, but she said she did not agree with the three-year-old policy. 
 ''I absolutely object to these,'' she said. ''Our taxes have doubled in the 13 years we've lived here, and this is adding insult to injury. I know he wants to participate, so I'm going to have to bite the bullet, but it upsets me.''
 John J. Burzichelli, a New Jersey assemblyman from Gloucester, introduced legislation this month that would prohibit school boards from charging fees for sports or other extracurricular activities. Taxes are high enough and the charges keep some students from participating, he said, though districts say they waive fees in cases of financial hardship. 
 ''I think that if a program is being offered and it's advancing education, there should not be a user fee,'' Mr. Burzichelli, a Democrat, said. ''It's really not fair to say to a parent, 'If you don't pay extra, your child misses out on an opportunity.' This is not an a la carte menu. Aren't the homeowners paying enough now?''
 Schools in more than half the districts in the nation, including some in Texas, Illinois and Wisconsin, charge fees for activities, Mr. Yaple said, but some states have banned them. 
 In New York, the state education commissioner ruled in 1991 that students could not be charged for athletic activities, David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said. 
 So, what happens when sports programs are eliminated because of budget cutbacks? On Long Island, parents, students and others have been raising money this summer from private donations to save their sports programs in East Moriches, Roosevelt and East Islip after voters rejected their school budgets. In East Islip alone, almost $200,000 has been raised to help field teams with more than 200 players, including the varsity football team. 
 In New Jersey, some parents have become resigned to the fees. Randi Quiroga just paid the $100 fee for the first time so that her 16-year-old daughter, Elana, could play sports and join several clubs at Robbinsville High School in Washington Township. 
 ''I don't like the idea that I have to pay, but our district is not receiving the state aid it should have received the last few years,'' Mrs. Quiroga said. ''There's not a lot of money left in the budget. If it gives my daughter the things she needs, I'm willing to pay it.''
 Other parents support the fees. Sue Potters of Glen Ridge said she did because of the numerous and specialized activities schools now offer. Her 14-year-old son is in the marching band, and she said she did not object to paying $200 a year. ''I think it's fair that if you participate, you pay a higher portion of the costs,'' she said. ''Why should other people have to pay for 100 kids in the band?''
 While the fees do bolster budgets, they do not cover the full cost of extracurricular activities. For example, in Washington Township, in a district of 2,400 students, the new fees are expected to raise $60,000 to $90,000, but the extracurricular budget is more than a million dollars, the superintendent, John Szabo, said. For the most part, he said, parents accepted the fee because ''it was better than cutting programs.'' 
 In Haddonfield, the district spends an average of $435 a pupil on extracurricular activities while collecting $100 from each participating high school student in fees, said Alan Fegley, an assistant superintendent. Middle school students pay $50.
 Growing student populations have also been a reason to institute the fees. In Madison, Conn., where the school district's enrollment has grown by 1,000 students in the past 10 years, to 3,882 this fall, the activity fee for middle and high school students was started five years ago, said H. Kaye Griffin, the superintendent. 
 The district needed to do so to hire additional coaches and assistants and keep up the equipment, Dr. Griffin said. High school students pay a $75 registration fee for sports, while other activities, like intramural sports at the middle school, cost $25. 
 The fees do not seem to deter students from the activities, administrators said. ''We have more children participating than ever,'' Dr. Griffin said. She expects more than 800 students to sign up for high school sports teams in the next school year.
 Mr. Fegley said that participation in Haddonfield has also not suffered. About 85 percent of high school students and 80 percent of middle schoolers participate in a club, sport or artistic activity. The principals can waive the fee in hardship cases, ''and when it's been needed, it's been done,'' he said. 
 There have been few complaints in recent years about the fee, Mr. Fegley said.
 Dr. Griffin said that she, too, had heard few parents object to the fee. ''People understand and they value these programs,'' she said.
 Although more boards are considering charging fees, they do have concerns. 
 ''This is done with some trepidation,'' Steven D. Weinstein, a member of the Haddonfield Board of Education, said. ''You don't want fees to be so high that it discourages people from participating. The driving force here is a need to minimize cuts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH KICKS -- It costs $100 to play football at Robbinsville High School, above, and $200 at Glen Ridge High, both in New Jersey. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (74%); LAWYERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%) Athletics and Sports; Interscholastic Athletics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Organizations, Societies and Clubs

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: John (Assemblyman) Burzichelli; Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



516 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A Kaffeeklatsch With a Goal 

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of the many sharp realizations of being unemployed is that your friends and family can't really help. They might have leads at first, or loans, but as time passes ''they start to wonder why it's taking you so long to get a job, they get tired of hearing your tales of woe, they start thinking something is wrong with you,'' Tory Johnson said of the cycle she's seen so many times. 
 Early this summer Ms. Johnson decided to snip that cycle with cafe au lait and cookies. She began what she calls the Women for Hire Career Club, a weekly gathering of seven women at an Upper West Side Italian coffeehouse. It feels like a book group or an investment club -- but here the only topic is getting out and finding a job. The cookies aside, it is probably most like a Weight Watchers meeting, Ms. Johnson jokes. ''When you know you are going to get on the scale, that keeps you from bad foods all week,'' she said. ''In the same way, knowing that your peers will want to hear about the contacts you've made, the interviews you've secured, is motivation to send out that extra resume or make that extra phone call.'' 
Ms. Johnson is the only one at each meeting who has a job. She is chief executive of Women for Hire, which creates job fairs aimed at women. Readers of this column may remember that she also flew to Houston at this time last year and ''adopted'' a Katrina evacuee she met at the Astrodome, finding the woman a job and furnishing her new apartment.
 That young woman is back on her feet, leaving Ms. Johnson looking for an additional cause. She put the word out on her company's Web site, womenforhire.com, that she was looking for women in the New York area who had been unemployed for six months or more and who wanted to give and receive support. Out of 1,100 applications, she chose 10 who seemed to have ''a hunger for getting a job'' but soon dismissed 3 of them because they were not hungry enough. 
 The key to the group, Ms. Johnson says, is diversity. No two members are looking for the same sort of position, which would lead to competition. Some members are highly educated, others barely so. One of the first things the women came to realize, in fact, is that unemployment is a remarkable leveler. ''A retail sales clerk has the same worries as a seasoned graphic designer,'' she said. Each week Ms. Johnson sends her group out with a new assignment. Create a one-minute ''elevator pitch'' describing your ideal job and what you can bring to it. Bring three job leads for someone else in the group. Call an interviewer who did not hire you and ask for feedback. 
 For some of the women, the group has been a crash course in how to apply for work. Mohani Dass, a native of Trinidad, had held the same clerical job at the same law firm for 18 years, for instance, and thought she would hold it for 18 more. But her department was merged with another a year ago and she was laid off. That's when she realized she didn't know how to start again. When an employment agency told her to dress conservatively for one interview, she wore casual black pants and a black top. When she described this at a meeting, Ms. Johnson took her to Talbots the next day and treated her to two new suits. 
 For others, the group has provided an emotional anchor in choppy waters. Two women are in the process of ending marriages and need to work for the first time in years. ''I'm at the end of the process and she is still in the middle, so we can help each other with that,'' said Susan Parsons, who trained in graphic design at the Rhode Island School of Design, then set that degree aside for nearly two decades to raise three sons. 
 The women are careful to stress that they do not see each other as friends. ''We're networking; we're not socializing,'' said Lois Schwartz, an event marketer who left a corporate job to freelance and is now trying to get full-time work again. 
 That was the relationship Ms. Johnson envisioned when she began the group -- and one she hopes to eventually teach women to replicate without her, all over the country. The only piece of the template that she has not yet worked out is what happens when the members actually start finding jobs. 
 Ms. Parsons became the first. She was offered a teaching job on Wednesday, and Ms. Johnson assumes that, one by one, other chairs will become empty. ''Will it be me and one last holdout drinking coffee every week forever?'' she asked. ''I'll hang in as long as it takes. But these women will get work. It won't take them long.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); BOOK CLUBS (76%); WOMEN'S MARKET (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WEB SITES (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (69%); DIETING (53%); RETAIL SALES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Labor; Women; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Women for Hire

PERSON: Lisa Belkin; Tory Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



517 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Parking Headaches At Train Stations

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your article about commuter parking (''Same Problem, Different Stations,'' Aug. 13) did not mention political reasons that created and perpetuate the problem. Before railroads went bankrupt, they provided parking to attract customers. When they became publicly subsidized, most parking lots were given or sold to communities, and local politicians reserved them for residents. 
 Railroads are open ''systems.'' When parking is restricted, it becomes a ''closed'' system, difficult to manage. With dual wage-earners, ridership requires parking. Without it, it is necessary to increase public subsidies. 
 The overarching goal of transportation authorities must be to improve service and increase ridership. Perhaps transit authorities should set deadlines for increasing parking or impose a ''private parking premium'' to tickets from restricted parking communities, and have that ''premium'' subsidize costs for communities with open public parking.
 To challenge the current politically restricted parking requires strong state leadership that may conflict with home rule. But when public money subsidizes public transportation, service must be open to everyone. Only when such politically restricted parking is challenged can America have self-sustaining, growing, vibrant rail service.

Jack R. Stokvis
Haworth, N.J.

The writer was assistant secretary for community planning and development at H.U.D., 1981-88.

To the Editor:
 ''Same Problem, Different Stations'' states ''more than 7,000 people board commuter trains each day at the Princeton Junction station, but there are only enough parking spaces for about half of them.'' That means if half of the people using the station were willing to catch rides with others who live nearby, and those who live nearby were willing to drive them, the problem would go away. The problem, therefore, is that people are unwilling to cooperate.
 Towns and commuter rail stations should simply limit station parking to those willing to drive people each way. A system could be developed to match drivers and riders for each trip. (I proposed such a system in 1994, while I was a regional economist at New York's Department of City Planning.) 
 Those riding, rather than driving, would save not only gas and parking, but also perhaps the fixed cost of owning and insuring an additional automobile. 

Larry Littlefield
Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); TRAINS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%) Railroads; Parking Garages and Lots; Commuting; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

PERSON: Jack R Stokvis; Larry Littlefield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



518 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Paying to Play at School

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
IN Glen Ridge, N.J., students participating in extracurricular activities must pay $200. In Haddonfield, a South Jersey district, the high school's annual fee is $100. This fall, Washington Township in Mercer County, N.J., will institute a $100 activities charge for the first time. And in Madison, Conn., high school students must pay a $75 registration fee for each sport they play.
 These pay-to-play charges, initiated by many school districts in the last decade as a way to raise money, are becoming more prevalent in states that permit them. But they are not universally popular: School districts' increasing fondness for the fees has prompted one New Jersey assemblyman to propose a ban.
 ''We are hearing that more and more boards are considering or implementing these fees,'' said Thomas Hutton, staff lawyer for the National School Boards Association. ''There are a lot of parents who know that the choice is to eliminate programs, and they don't want that.'' 
 In Connecticut, about 40 of the 166 public school districts charge an activity fee, said Vincent A. Mustaro, a senior staff associate for the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education. That estimate reflects the last survey of districts about the fees in 2004. ''It's a way of meeting budget, and it's a better alternative than eliminating programs,'' Mr. Mustaro said.
 In New Jersey, about a dozen of the state's 615 school districts charge fees. ''You see this when boards are faced with tough economic decisions,'' said Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. ''It's not something a board establishes happily.'' 
 But it is something that more New Jersey districts are pondering after five years of little increase in state aid for education. Local voters are clearly getting restive with ever-higher budgets: Only 53.4 percent of the districts won voter approval for their budgets in spring elections this year. The rate was the lowest since 1994, Mr. Yaple said.
 ''Charging a fee can be a difficult choice,'' he said. ''It's certainly not something all parents will support.'' 
 Julie Ross, a mother of three, will be paying the fee this year for her 14-year-old son, Max, so he can participate in clubs at Glen Ridge High School, but she said she did not agree with the three-year-old policy. 
 ''I absolutely object to these,'' she said. ''Our taxes have doubled in the 13 years we've lived here, and this is adding insult to injury. I know he wants to participate, so I'm going to have to bite the bullet, but it upsets me.''
 John J. Burzichelli, a New Jersey assemblyman from Gloucester, introduced legislation this month that would prohibit school boards from charging fees for sports or other extracurricular activities. Taxes are high enough and the charges keep some students from participating, he said, though districts say they waive fees in cases of financial hardship. 
 ''I think that if a program is being offered and it's advancing education, there should not be a user fee,'' Mr. Burzichelli, a Democrat, said. ''It's really not fair to say to a parent, 'If you don't pay extra, your child misses out on an opportunity.' This is not an a la carte menu. Aren't the homeowners paying enough now?''
 Schools in more than half the districts in the nation, including some in Texas, Illinois and Wisconsin, charge fees for activities, Mr. Yaple said, but some states have banned them. 
 In New York, the state education commissioner ruled in 1991 that students could not be charged for athletic activities, David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said. 
 So, what happens when sports programs are eliminated because of budget cutbacks? On Long Island, parents, students and others have been raising money this summer from private donations to save their sports programs in East Moriches, Roosevelt and East Islip after voters rejected their school budgets. In East Islip alone, almost $200,000 has been raised to help field teams with more than 200 players, including the varsity football team. 
 In New Jersey, some parents have become resigned to the fees. Randi Quiroga just paid the $100 fee for the first time so that her 16-year-old daughter, Elana, could play sports and join several clubs at Robbinsville High School in Washington Township. 
 ''I don't like the idea that I have to pay, but our district is not receiving the state aid it should have received the last few years,'' Mrs. Quiroga said. ''There's not a lot of money left in the budget. If it gives my daughter the things she needs, I'm willing to pay it.''
 Other parents support the fees. Sue Potters of Glen Ridge said she did because of the numerous and specialized activities schools now offer. Her 14-year-old son is in the marching band, and she said she did not object to paying $200 a year. ''I think it's fair that if you participate, you pay a higher portion of the costs,'' she said. ''Why should other people have to pay for 100 kids in the band?''
 While the fees do bolster budgets, they do not cover the full cost of extracurricular activities. For example, in Washington Township, in a district of 2,400 students, the new fees are expected to raise $60,000 to $90,000, but the extracurricular budget is more than a million dollars, the superintendent, John Szabo, said. For the most part, he said, parents accepted the fee because ''it was better than cutting programs.'' 
 In Haddonfield, the district spends an average of $435 a pupil on extracurricular activities while collecting $100 from each participating high school student in fees, said Alan Fegley, an assistant superintendent. Middle school students pay $50.
 Growing student populations have also been a reason to institute the fees. In Madison, Conn., where the school district's enrollment has grown by 1,000 students in the past 10 years, to 3,882 this fall, the activity fee for middle and high school students was started five years ago, said H. Kaye Griffin, the superintendent. 
 The district needed to do so to hire additional coaches and assistants and keep up the equipment, Dr. Griffin said. High school students pay a $75 registration fee for sports, while other activities, like intramural sports at the middle school, cost $25. 
 The fees do not seem to deter students from the activities, administrators said. ''We have more children participating than ever,'' Dr. Griffin said. She expects more than 800 students to sign up for high school sports teams in the next school year.
 Mr. Fegley said that participation in Haddonfield has also not suffered. About 85 percent of high school students and 80 percent of middle schoolers participate in a club, sport or artistic activity. The principals can waive the fee in hardship cases, ''and when it's been needed, it's been done,'' he said. 
 There have been few complaints in recent years about the fee, Mr. Fegley said.
 Dr. Griffin said that she, too, had heard few parents object to the fee. ''People understand and they value these programs,'' she said.
 Although more boards are considering charging fees, they do have concerns. 
 ''This is done with some trepidation,'' Steven D. Weinstein, a member of the Haddonfield Board of Education, said. ''You don't want fees to be so high that it discourages people from participating. The driving force here is a need to minimize cuts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH KICKS -- It costs $100 to play football at Robbinsville High School, above, and $200 at Glen Ridge High, both in New Jersey. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (74%); LAWYERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%) Athletics and Sports; Interscholastic Athletics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Organizations, Societies and Clubs

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: John (Assemblyman) Burzichelli; Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



519 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing across the region, new census data show.
 According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to 2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city, compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.
''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation, and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''
 Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated, among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to draw highly skilled and educated workers. 
 Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region. Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.
 So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing friction with some residents over crowded housing. 
 And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.
 The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2 percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.
 Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and housing that is hard to afford.
 ''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and affordable housing.''
 In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000 to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000. 
 Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.
 The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes. The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school enrollments and previous censuses.
 The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern Westchester.
 In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.
 In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and Passaic, stopped growing or declined.
 Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the suburbs.
 So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.
 ''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.
 ''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.
 In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing, and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable. 
 ''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said. 
 The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great conflict. 
 Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as a working-class community.
 ''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around, blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''
 The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990, according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.
 Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed harassment.
 The borough's increasing Hispanic population fillsa void in the job market, the mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''
 Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing. 
 ''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''
 James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs because there is little public transportation.
 ''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''
 The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their legal status.
 ''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''
 Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.
 ''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''
 The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30 percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English. 
 The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be more insular and less involved in the schools. 
 ''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District on Long Island. 
 But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.
 ''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''
 Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities, including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y. Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants, including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map tracks percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005 and the top 25 countries of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (92%); SUBURBS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Suburbs; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



520 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Parking Headaches At Train Stations 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your article about commuter parking (''Same Problem, Different Stations,'' Aug. 13) did not mention political reasons that created and perpetuate the problem. Before railroads went bankrupt, they provided parking to attract customers. When they became publicly subsidized, most parking lots were given or sold to communities, and local politicians reserved them for residents. 
 Railroads are open ''systems.'' When parking is restricted, it becomes a ''closed'' system, difficult to manage. With dual wage-earners, ridership requires parking. Without it, it is necessary to increase public subsidies.
The overarching goal of transportation authorities must be to improve service and increase ridership. Perhaps transit authorities should set deadlines for increasing parking or impose a ''private parking premium'' to tickets from restricted parking communities, and have that ''premium'' subsidize costs for communities with open public parking.
 To challenge the current politically restricted parking requires strong state leadership that may conflict with home rule. But when public money subsidizes public transportation, service must be open to everyone. Only when such politically restricted parking is challenged can America have self-sustaining, growing, vibrant rail service.

Jack R. Stokvis
Haworth

The writer was assistant secretary for community planning and development at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 1981-88.

To the Editor:
 ''Same Problem, Different Stations'' states ''more than 7,000 people board commuter trains each day at the Princeton Junction station, but there are only enough parking spaces for about half of them.'' That means if half of the people using the station were willing to catch rides with others who live nearby, and those who live nearby were willing to drive them, the problem would go away. 
 The problem, therefore, is that people are unwilling to cooperate in any way.
 Towns and commuter rail stations should simply limit station parking to those willing to drive people each way. A system could be developed to match drivers and riders for each trip. (I proposed such a system in 1994, while I was a regional economist at New York's Department of City Planning.) 
 Those riding, rather than driving, would save not only gas and parking, but also perhaps the fixed cost of owning and insuring an additional automobile. 
 This is a self-inflicted wound.

Larry Littlefield
Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CITIES (86%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Railroads; Parking Garages and Lots; Commuting; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: Jack R Stokvis; Larry Littlefield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



521 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Paying to Play at School

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
IN Glen Ridge, N.J., students participating in extracurricular activities must pay $200. In Haddonfield, a South Jersey district, the high school's annual fee is $100. This fall, Washington Township in Mercer County, N.J., will institute a $100 activities charge for the first time. And in Madison, Conn., high school students must pay a $75 registration fee for each sport they play.
 These pay-to-play charges, initiated by many school districts in the last decade as a way to raise money, are becoming more prevalent in states that permit them. But they are not universally popular: School districts' increasing fondness for the fees has prompted one New Jersey assemblyman to propose a ban.
 ''We are hearing that more and more boards are considering or implementing these fees,'' said Thomas Hutton, staff lawyer for the National School Boards Association. ''There are a lot of parents who know that the choice is to eliminate programs, and they don't want that.'' 
 In Connecticut, about 40 of the 166 public school districts charge an activity fee, said Vincent A. Mustaro, a senior staff associate for the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education. That estimate reflects the last survey of districts about the fees in 2004. ''It's a way of meeting budget, and it's a better alternative than eliminating programs,'' Mr. Mustaro said.
 In New Jersey, about a dozen of the state's 615 school districts charge fees. ''You see this when boards are faced with tough economic decisions,'' said Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. ''It's not something a board establishes happily.'' 
 But it is something that more New Jersey districts are pondering after five years of little increase in state aid for education. Local voters are clearly getting restive with ever-higher budgets: Only 53.4 percent of the districts won voter approval for their budgets in spring elections this year. The rate was the lowest since 1994, Mr. Yaple said.
 ''Charging a fee can be a difficult choice,'' he said. ''It's certainly not something all parents will support.'' 
 Julie Ross, a mother of three, will be paying the fee this year for her 14-year-old son, Max, so he can participate in clubs at Glen Ridge High School, but she said she did not agree with the three-year-old policy. 
 ''I absolutely object to these,'' she said. ''Our taxes have doubled in the 13 years we've lived here, and this is adding insult to injury. I know he wants to participate, so I'm going to have to bite the bullet, but it upsets me.''
 John J. Burzichelli, a New Jersey assemblyman from Gloucester, introduced legislation this month that would prohibit school boards from charging fees for sports or other extracurricular activities. Taxes are high enough and the charges keep some students from participating, he said, though districts say they waive fees in cases of financial hardship. 
 ''I think that if a program is being offered and it's advancing education, there should not be a user fee,'' Mr. Burzichelli, a Democrat, said. ''It's really not fair to say to a parent, 'If you don't pay extra, your child misses out on an opportunity.' This is not an a la carte menu. Aren't the homeowners paying enough now?''
 Schools in more than half the districts in the nation, including some in Texas, Illinois and Wisconsin, charge fees for activities, Mr. Yaple said, but some states have banned them. 
 In New York, the state education commissioner ruled in 1991 that students could not be charged for athletic activities, David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said. 
 So, what happens when sports programs are eliminated because of budget cutbacks? On Long Island, parents, students and others have been raising money this summer from private donations to save their sports programs in East Moriches, Roosevelt and East Islip after voters rejected their school budgets. In East Islip alone, almost $200,000 has been raised to help field teams with more than 200 players, including the varsity football team. 
 In New Jersey, some parents have become resigned to the fees. Randi Quiroga just paid the $100 fee for the first time so that her 16-year-old daughter, Elana, could play sports and join several clubs at Robbinsville High School in Washington Township. 
 ''I don't like the idea that I have to pay, but our district is not receiving the state aid it should have received the last few years,'' Mrs. Quiroga said. ''There's not a lot of money left in the budget. If it gives my daughter the things she needs, I'm willing to pay it.''
 Other parents support the fees. Sue Potters of Glen Ridge said she did because of the numerous and specialized activities schools now offer. Her 14-year-old son is in the marching band, and she said she did not object to paying $200 a year. ''I think it's fair that if you participate, you pay a higher portion of the costs,'' she said. ''Why should other people have to pay for 100 kids in the band?''
 While the fees do bolster budgets, they do not cover the full cost of extracurricular activities. For example, in Washington Township, in a district of 2,400 students, the new fees are expected to raise $60,000 to $90,000, but the extracurricular budget is more than a million dollars, the superintendent, John Szabo, said. For the most part, he said, parents accepted the fee because ''it was better than cutting programs.'' 
 In Haddonfield, the district spends an average of $435 a pupil on extracurricular activities while collecting $100 from each participating high school student in fees, said Alan Fegley, an assistant superintendent. Middle school students pay $50.
 Growing student populations have also been a reason to institute the fees. In Madison, Conn., where the school district's enrollment has grown by 1,000 students in the past 10 years, to 3,882 this fall, the activity fee for middle and high school students was started five years ago, said H. Kaye Griffin, the superintendent. 
 The district needed to do so to hire additional coaches and assistants and keep up the equipment, Dr. Griffin said. High school students pay a $75 registration fee for sports, while other activities, like intramural sports at the middle school, cost $25. 
 The fees do not seem to deter students from the activities, administrators said. ''We have more children participating than ever,'' Dr. Griffin said. She expects more than 800 students to sign up for high school sports teams in the next school year.
 Mr. Fegley said that participation in Haddonfield has also not suffered. About 85 percent of high school students and 80 percent of middle schoolers participate in a club, sport or artistic activity. The principals can waive the fee in hardship cases, ''and when it's been needed, it's been done,'' he said. 
 There have been few complaints in recent years about the fee, Mr. Fegley said.
 Dr. Griffin said that she, too, had heard few parents object to the fee. ''People understand and they value these programs,'' she said.
 Although more boards are considering charging fees, they do have concerns. 
 ''This is done with some trepidation,'' Steven D. Weinstein, a member of the Haddonfield Board of Education, said. ''You don't want fees to be so high that it discourages people from participating. The driving force here is a need to minimize cuts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH KICKS -- It costs $100 to play football at Robbinsville High School, above, and $200 at Glen Ridge High, both in New Jersey. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (74%); LAWYERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%) Athletics and Sports; Interscholastic Athletics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Organizations, Societies and Clubs

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: John (Assemblyman) Burzichelli; Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



522 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing across the region, new census data show.
 According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to 2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city, compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.
''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation, and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''
 Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated, among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to draw highly skilled and educated workers. 
 Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region. Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.
 So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing friction with some residents over crowded housing. 
 And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.
 The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2 percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.
 Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and housing that is hard to afford.
 ''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and affordable housing.''
 In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000 to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000. 
 Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.
 The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes. The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school enrollments and previous censuses.
 The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern Westchester.
 In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.
 In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and Passaic, stopped growing or declined.
 Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the suburbs.
 So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.
 ''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.
 ''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.
 In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing, and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable. 
 ''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said. 
 The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great conflict. 
 Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as a working-class community.
 ''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around, blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''
 The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990, according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.
 Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed harassment.
 The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''
 Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing. 
 ''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''
 James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs because there is little public transportation.
 ''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''
 The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their legal status.
 ''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''
 Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.
 ''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''
 The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30 percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English. 
 The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be more insular and less involved in the schools. 
 ''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District on Long Island. 
 But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.
 ''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''
 Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities, including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y. Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants, including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map tracks percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005 and the top 25 countries of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (92%); SUBURBS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Suburbs; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



523 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of New Jersey

Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Public School Funding Reform. Tuesday at 1 p.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Government Consolidation and Shared Services. Wednesday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.
Trenton Joint Legislative Committee on Public Employee Benefits Reform. Thursday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.

Atlantic County

Hammonton Town Council. Monday at noon. Hammonton Town Hall, 100 Central Avenue. (609) 567-4300.
Margate Planning Board. Thursday at 7 p.m. Margate City Hall, 1 South Washington Avenue. (609) 822-0424.

Bergen County

Garfield Child care conference. Registration required. Tickets: $20. Monday from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Margaret P. Muscarelle Child Development Center, 1 Walnut Street. (201) 336-7150.
Hillsdale Planning Board. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Borough Hall, 380 Hillsdale Avenue. (201) 337-7470.

Burlington County

Jacobstown Economic Advisory Development Committee. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. North Hanover Township Municipal Building, 41 Schoolhouse Road. (609) 758-2522, ext. 43.

Cape May County

Cape May Court House Mental Health, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Board. Monday at 5 p.m. Cape May County Administration Building, 4 Moore Road. (609) 465-1055.

Essex County

Nutley Blood pressure screening. Monday from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. and Tuesday from 1:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Nutley Public Affairs Building, 149 Chestnut Street. (973) 284-4975.

Hudson County

Bayonne Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Thursday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 630 Avenue C. (201) 858-6000.

Middlesex County

Monmouth Junction Planning Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. South Brunswick Municipal Building, 540 Ridge Road. (732) 329-4000.
Monmouth Junction Zoning Board. Thursday at 7:45 p.m. South Brunswick Municipal Building, 540 Ridge Road. (732) 329-4000.
North Brunswick Township Council workshop. Monday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 710 Hermann Road. (732) 247-0922.
North Brunswick Affordable Housing Board. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 710 Hermann Road. (732) 247-0922.
North Brunswick Ethics Board. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 710 Hermann Road. (732) 247-0922.
North Brunswick Rent and Mobile Home Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Municipal Building, 710 Hermann Road. (732) 247-0922.

Monmouth County

Eatontown Planning Board. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Eatontown Borough Hall, 47 Broad Street. (732) 389-7621.

Morris County

Morristown County Human Relations Commission. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Administration and Records Building, Court Street. (973) 326-7270.
Morristown Board of Public Transportation. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 30 Schuyler Place. (973) 829-8101.
Mount Arlington Borough Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Mount Arlington Municipal Building, 419 Howard Boulevard. (973) 398-6832, ext. 52.

Passaic County

Little Falls Shade Tree Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 225 Main Street. (973) 256-0170.

Somerset County

Somerset Municipal Court. Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Franklin Township Municipal Building, 475 DeMott Lane. (732) 873-2500.

Sussex County

Newton Town Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Newton Municipal Building, 39 Trinity Street. (973) 383-3521.

Union County

Berkeley Heights Environmental Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. 29 Park Avenue. (908) 464-2700.
Fanwood Planning Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Fanwood Borough Hall, 75 North Martine Avenue. (908) 322-8236.

Warren County

Belvidere Board of Adjustment. Monday at 7 p.m. Belvidere Municipal Building, 691 Water Street. (908) 475-5331.
Johnsonburg Environmental Commission. Monday at 8 p.m. Frelinghuysen Township Municipal Building, 210 Route 661. (908) 362-7529.
Phillipsburg Environmental Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Lopatcong Municipal Building, 232 South Third Street, Morris Park. (908) 859-3355.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (76%); ZONING (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ETHICS (71%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); MENTAL HEALTH (63%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (63%); EDUCATION FUNDING (56%); CHILD CARE (51%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



524 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; REDEVELOPMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: For Its Next Big Deal, Peekskill Looks Downtown

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL, N.Y. 

 BODY:
AFTER decades of quiet decline, the city of Peekskill is looking for a growth spurt, with a new plan for downtown development added to several others already in the works. 
 Much is happening in this city of 22,000, a Hudson River community that thrived until the mid-1950s, when factories began closing their doors. The firm Warshauer Mellusi Warshauer Architects of Hawthorne, N.Y., working for the city, has developed a plan that would include 170,000 square feet of retail space, 500 residential units and 1,900 parking spaces in a four-square-block area in the city's downtown historic district.
The new buildings would range from 1 to 10 stories, in a style that Gary Warshauer, a principal in the firm, said would be traditional and in keeping with the eclectic nature of the buildings in the neighborhood. 
 A row of Victorian homes borders the north side of the area, which includes an early 20th-century Elks Lodge and a gas station and diner dating to the 1930's.
 The plan is the latest of several development projects in Peekskill. Since 2004, Ginsburg Development, a private developer, has been heading the design process for a riverfront redevelopment; that $200 million plan, calling for 500 condos and up to 100,000 square feet of restaurant and retail space, is now in the public review process. 
 Meanwhile, a city-sponsored program that creates living and working spaces for artists downtown has resulted in more than 150 artists moving to the city and the opening of a handful of new businesses since the first units were completed in 2002. The city is considering a Target store for another section of town, and other projects are in the discussion stage.
 Mayor John G. Testa predicted that the Warshauer plan would bring hundreds of residents and dozens of stores to the struggling four-square-block area, which was the focus of a recent city-ordered study of neighborhood blight. 
 The study rated 50 percent of the 22 properties examined as being in fair condition and 23 percent in poor condition. The other 27 percent were in good or excellent shape. 
 The types of businesses that would occupy the new retail space on those blocks remain to be determined, Mr. Testa said, noting that the city would try to nurture the kinds of businesses ''you don't find in a mall.''
 But some business owners and elected officials have expressed concern. That a blight study was conducted has led some to believe that city officials might attempt to claim land for the project using eminent domain, a process in which a government can seize property for public use. The mayor said that the city had no intention of doing so. 
 Others worried that the Warshauer plan could end up competing with the other projects. 
 ''A picture has begun to develop,'' said Drew Claxton, a Peekskill councilwoman. ''We have a blight survey, Warshauer's plans and riverfront plans. All three are very significant and will have great impact on our community, some good and some not so good.''
 ''You could well end up competing with each other,'' she said, expressing concern that the city had failed to create a master plan to handle development.
 Scott Sailor, who since 1993 has operated the Bruised Apple, a downtown store that sells used books, worries that the neighborhood's historic character might be lost. 
 ''It all depends on how they do it and which things they tear down,'' he said. ''Who defines history?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: LIVING HISTORY -- Storefronts in Peekskill's downtown historic district. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); OFFICE DESIGN (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%) Eminent Domain; Historic Buildings and Sites; Retail Stores and Trade; Housing; Parking; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: John G (Mayor) Testa; Warshauer Mellusi Warshauer Architects; Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Peekskill (NY); Peekskill (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



525 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing across the region, new census data show.
 According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to 2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city, compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.
''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation, and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''
 Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated, among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to draw highly skilled and educated workers. 
 Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region. Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.
 So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing friction with some residents over crowded housing. 
 And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.
 The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2 percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.
 Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and housing that is hard to afford.
 ''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and affordable housing.''
 In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000 to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000. 
 Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.
 The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes. The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school enrollments and previous censuses.
 The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern Westchester.
 In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.
 In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and Passaic, stopped growing or declined.
 Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the suburbs.
 So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.
 ''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.
 ''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.
 In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing, and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable. 
 ''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said. 
 The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great conflict. 
 Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as a working-class community.
 ''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around, blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''
 The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990, according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.
 Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed harassment.
 The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''
 Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing. 
 ''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''
 James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs because there is little public transportation.
 ''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''
 The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their legal status.
 ''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''
 Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.
 ''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''
 The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30 percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English. 
 The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be more insular and less involved in the schools. 
 ''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District on Long Island. 
 But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.
 ''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''
 Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities, including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y. Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants, including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005''Graph tracks top 25 countries of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for 2000 and 2005.(Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (91%); SUBURBS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Suburbs; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



526 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Paying to Play at School

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
IN Glen Ridge, N.J., students participating in extracurricular activities must pay $200. In Haddonfield, a South Jersey district, the high school's annual fee is $100. This fall, Washington Township in Mercer County, N.J., will institute a $100 activities charge for the first time. And in Madison, Conn., high school students must pay a $75 registration fee for each sport they play.
 These pay-to-play charges, initiated by many school districts in the last decade as a way to raise money, are becoming more prevalent in states that permit them. But they are not universally popular: School districts' increasing fondness for the fees has prompted one New Jersey assemblyman to propose a ban.
 ''We are hearing that more and more boards are considering or implementing these fees,'' said Thomas Hutton, staff lawyer for the National School Boards Association. ''There are a lot of parents who know that the choice is to eliminate programs, and they don't want that.'' 
 In Connecticut, about 40 of the 166 public school districts charge an activity fee, said Vincent A. Mustaro, a senior staff associate for the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education. That estimate reflects the last survey of districts about the fees in 2004. ''It's a way of meeting budget, and it's a better alternative than eliminating programs,'' Mr. Mustaro said.
 In New Jersey, about a dozen of the state's 615 school districts charge fees. ''You see this when boards are faced with tough economic decisions,'' said Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. ''It's not something a board establishes happily.'' 
 But it is something that more New Jersey districts are pondering after five years of little increase in state aid for education. Local voters are clearly getting restive with ever-higher budgets: Only 53.4 percent of the districts won voter approval for their budgets in spring elections this year. The rate was the lowest since 1994, Mr. Yaple said.
 ''Charging a fee can be a difficult choice,'' he said. ''It's certainly not something all parents will support.'' 
 Julie Ross, a mother of three, will be paying the fee this year for her 14-year-old son, Max, so he can participate in clubs at Glen Ridge High School, but she said she did not agree with the three-year-old policy. 
 ''I absolutely object to these,'' she said. ''Our taxes have doubled in the 13 years we've lived here, and this is adding insult to injury. I know he wants to participate, so I'm going to have to bite the bullet, but it upsets me.''
 John J. Burzichelli, a New Jersey assemblyman from Gloucester, introduced legislation this month that would prohibit school boards from charging fees for sports or other extracurricular activities. Taxes are high enough and the charges keep some students from participating, he said, though districts say they waive fees in cases of financial hardship. 
 ''I think that if a program is being offered and it's advancing education, there should not be a user fee,'' Mr. Burzichelli, a Democrat, said. ''It's really not fair to say to a parent, 'If you don't pay extra, your child misses out on an opportunity.' This is not an a la carte menu. Aren't the homeowners paying enough now?''
 Schools in more than half the districts in the nation, including some in Texas, Illinois and Wisconsin, charge fees for activities, Mr. Yaple said, but some states have banned them. 
 In New York, the state education commissioner ruled in 1991 that students could not be charged for athletic activities, David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said. 
 So, what happens when sports programs are eliminated because of budget cutbacks? On Long Island, parents, students and others have been raising money this summer from private donations to save their sports programs in East Moriches, Roosevelt and East Islip after voters rejected their school budgets. In East Islip alone, almost $200,000 has been raised to help field teams with more than 200 players, including the varsity football team. 
 In New Jersey, some parents have become resigned to the fees. Randi Quiroga just paid the $100 fee for the first time so that her 16-year-old daughter, Elana, could play sports and join several clubs at Robbinsville High School in Washington Township. 
 ''I don't like the idea that I have to pay, but our district is not receiving the state aid it should have received the last few years,'' Mrs. Quiroga said. ''There's not a lot of money left in the budget. If it gives my daughter the things she needs, I'm willing to pay it.''
 Other parents support the fees. Sue Potters of Glen Ridge said she did because of the numerous and specialized activities schools now offer. Her 14-year-old son is in the marching band, and she said she did not object to paying $200 a year. ''I think it's fair that if you participate, you pay a higher portion of the costs,'' she said. ''Why should other people have to pay for 100 kids in the band?''
 While the fees do bolster budgets, they do not cover the full cost of extracurricular activities. For example, in Washington Township, in a district of 2,400 students, the new fees are expected to raise $60,000 to $90,000, but the extracurricular budget is more than a million dollars, the superintendent, John Szabo, said. For the most part, he said, parents accepted the fee because ''it was better than cutting programs.'' 
 In Haddonfield, the district spends an average of $435 a pupil on extracurricular activities while collecting $100 from each participating high school student in fees, said Alan Fegley, an assistant superintendent. Middle school students pay $50.
 Growing student populations have also been a reason to institute the fees. In Madison, Conn., where the school district's enrollment has grown by 1,000 students in the past 10 years, to 3,882 this fall, the activity fee for middle and high school students was started five years ago, said H. Kaye Griffin, the superintendent. 
 The district needed to do so to hire additional coaches and assistants and keep up the equipment, Dr. Griffin said. High school students pay a $75 registration fee for sports, while other activities, like intramural sports at the middle school, cost $25. 
 The fees do not seem to deter students from the activities, administrators said. ''We have more children participating than ever,'' Dr. Griffin said. She expects more than 800 students to sign up for high school sports teams in the next school year.
 Mr. Fegley said that participation in Haddonfield has also not suffered. About 85 percent of high school students and 80 percent of middle schoolers participate in a club, sport or artistic activity. The principals can waive the fee in hardship cases, ''and when it's been needed, it's been done,'' he said. 
 There have been few complaints in recent years about the fee, Mr. Fegley said.
 Dr. Griffin said that she, too, had heard few parents object to the fee. ''People understand and they value these programs,'' she said.
 Although more boards are considering charging fees, they do have concerns. 
 ''This is done with some trepidation,'' Steven D. Weinstein, a member of the Haddonfield Board of Education, said. ''You don't want fees to be so high that it discourages people from participating. The driving force here is a need to minimize cuts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH KICKS -- It costs $100 to play football at Robbinsville High School, above, and $200 at Glen Ridge High, both in New Jersey. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (74%); LAWYERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%) Athletics and Sports; Interscholastic Athletics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Organizations, Societies and Clubs

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: John (Assemblyman) Burzichelli; Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



527 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: 8-Cylinder Teenage Mating Dance 

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

DATELINE: ASHEVILLE, N.C. 

 BODY:
IT sounded like a classic rebel yell, but it was hard to tell, since the unholy sound, somewhere between a shriek and a whoop, was quickly drowned out by the roar of a small-block V-8 in full revving mode. 
 Moments later, the sources of the screech -- a couple of burly, whiskered country boys in their mid-20's, one with a Confederate battle flag tattoo on his bulging bicep -- had chugged off in the opposite direction down Patton Avenue in a mud-spattered white pickup. They were swallowed into a seemingly endless queue of gurgling Camaros, fume-spewing 70's muscle cars and tidy Japanese econoboxes (some likely borrowed from mom), cruising along this wide suburban boulevard.
''Those are 'high school hangouts,' '' Will Thompson, 17, said dismissively about the older guys, as his own black Chevrolet pickup crept in the opposite direction. ''They graduated from high school like five years ago,'' explained Will, who wore a ''Sanford and Son'' T-shirt and a camouflage hunting cap. ''It's like, 'You graduated, come on!' '' 
 ''I won't come down after high school,'' he added resolutely. 
 Will, a polite, soft-spoken high school senior who hopes to parlay a talent running the longer sprints on the school track team into a scholarship at Western Carolina University, understands that on weekend nights, Patton Avenue belongs to the young. And indeed, two Saturdays ago, as usual, four of the six lanes of Asheville's main commercial thoroughfare had congealed to a virtual standstill, as dozens, if not hundreds, of cars and pickup trucks, some stuffed with five or seven or even nine hollering teenagers, circled a ceaseless loop past the Kmart and the Krispy Kreme.
 Leering boys leaned out driver's windows and dangled Mardi Gras beads at passing teenage girls wearing latte-colored late-summer suntans and low-cut tops. 
 An enormous pickup with a polished-chrome smokestack exhaust lurched to a halt. Its driver, a whiskered Edward Norton look-alike in a well-worn baseball cap, threw the shifter into neutral, stomped on the gas and let out an alpha male whoop as plumes of black diesel smoke curled the moist August air. The curly haired peroxide-blonde in his passenger seat looked on proudly, as if she had been crowned queen of the strip.
 ''You'll see adults with little kids, they'll get caught up in all this and they'll get so mad,'' Will said with a laugh. ''I'm like, 'Go to the Interstate, man!' '' 
 As a cruising mecca, Asheville remains a stubborn holdout. Over the last decade or so, countless municipalities across America, citing very modern concerns like traffic, gang violence and drugs, have declared war on cruising. Due to the broad crackdown by police departments -- and also, undoubtedly, to changing teenage tastes in an era of PlayStations, MySpace-enabled hookups and self-produced video blogs -- cruising scenes that recall the 50's are slowly being suffocated across the American landscape, from Miami Beach to Omaha to Modesto, Calif., a scene that inspired ''American Graffiti.'' 
 But not in Asheville. Here, cruising -- a perfect synthesis of three traditional teenage passions: cars, sex and most especially, aimlessness -- is not only hanging on, but thriving. On weekend nights, teenagers descend on Asheville from as far off as South Carolina or eastern Tennessee, at least an hour's drive. The jeans get baggier, the chrome rims get bigger. But the spirit remains the same. 
 Here, cruising's appeal lies in its simplicity. As practiced on Patton Avenue, cruising is about the mating dance between boys with big engines and girls in small tops in a quiet corner of the South where teenagers have few places to turn for glimmering lights, booming sounds and Spring Break-style abandon. 
 ''Just go out and have fun, scope out chicks,'' said Karl Mueller, a senior at nearby Enka High School, explaining his cruising philosophy. Karl met up in the Kmart parking lot with some buddies from the football team, including Will. (During cruising hours, the parking lots of the fast-food joints and big-box retailers lining the strip are jammed. Kmart is self-proclaimed redneck territory, for locals only. At the opposite end of the strip, the Sav-Mor lot is for out-of-towners; black and Hispanic teenagers congregate there, too, each group in distinct cliques.) 
 As Will and Karl talked, a giant silver Dodge rolled by, its engine rumbling like an incoming B-17. 
 ''Mmm, that's a Big Horn edition,'' Will said admiringly. 
 ''That's cool, man,'' added Shane Pope, 19. 
 ''Got the big stacks coming off the back,'' observed Chris Burleson, a burly Enka senior, almost dreamily. 
 ''Does it come stock like that?'' Karl asked.
 Anti-cruising ordinances continue to tumble forward, just as they did throughout the 90's in cities like Louisville, Ky.; Fargo, N.D.; Orlando, Fla.; and Tempe, Ariz. Last month, Milwaukee leaders, citing cruising-related violence, signed into law a strict ordinance that allows police to seize cars repeatedly used for cruising. In 2002, police in Westminster, Colo., started using handheld computers to track the number of times a car passed a certain location. 
 But just try to ban it in Asheville.
 ''The kids ain't gonna leave, I don't care how many tickets the cops write,'' said Laura Strother, 22, who had driven from Waynesville, a tiny outlying town with an odoriferous paper mill, she said. She was trolling Patton that weekend in her 2001 black Mustang -- nicknamed Bullitt, after a favorite movie. Her cruising companion, Kelly Edwards, 17, also of Waynesville, who wore a tiny rhinestone stud in her nose, agreed: ''If you take this away, then nobody has anything to do.''
 The truth is, Asheville did try to snuff out cruising, said Lt. Rae Ferguson of the Asheville Police Department, about five years ago, because of increasing reports by local businesses of fights and property damage. ''We tried everything,'' Lieutenant Ferguson recalled. ''We tried saturation patrols. One night we wrote 190 tickets.'' The police department even tried to create other activities for teenagers, sponsoring car shows and dances. But nothing could keep them off Patton. 
 ''The fact is, this is just a cultural thing,'' Lieutenant Ferguson said. ''I did it when I was a kid.'' 
 So they come, in the hundreds, every Friday and Saturday, more in warm months. Despite the thudding stereos and skimpy outfits, the actual act of cruising has become strangely contained. Though cruising is not technically forbidden, it is monitored. The police write tickets for impeding traffic, racing and the occasional drunken driving, and flush out the parking lots precisely at midnight. Given that no self-respecting teenager would turn out before 9 p.m., that leaves exactly three hours for cruising. 
 It's not exactly an unbridled expression of teenage rebellion, but a sort of automotive Kabuki, a slow-motion line dance performed by dozens of cars creeping in a tightly choreographed circle between Florida Avenue on the east end and Louisiana Avenue on the west -- a stretch only a third of a mile long. Cruising is less a phenomenon of the city's picturesque, historical downtown, nestled high in the lush Blue Ridge Mountains and dotted with high-end bookshops and fusion bistros, than of the more countrified western end. 
 For some teenagers on this side of town, cruising becomes a chance to explore, and define, their budding identities. Will Thompson and his friends proudly fly Confederate battle flags -- ''They say 'Heritage, Not Hate,' '' Will emphasized -- and crank up old Conway Twitty albums on the car stereo while cruising Patton. Most nights, they set up lawn chairs that teeter in the bed of their pickups. 
 ''We're not rednecks,'' Will joked. ''We're Appalachian-Americans.'' 
 The Dixie vibe is readily apparent on Patton Avenue in the form of rebel-flag bumper stickers and decals. Still, it's hardly universal. Many of the teenagers would not seem out of place in Santa Monica, Calif., with their Abercrombie & Fitch meets ''The O.C.'' look -- baggy jeans, flip-flops, oversize surfer-style shirts. 
 Mating rituals along Patton have certain codes. Boys don't cruise alone. ''You come in here one guy, unless you're like Mr. GQ, girls are going to laugh at you,'' Will explained. Girls don't, either. They would be swarmed. 
 And while girls can get away with creeping around in mom's sexless Toyota, guys on the prowl ''better have game'' -- that is, serious wheels, said Karl. 
 Though whoops and yells may turn heads, the quickest way to a lady's heart is with a little Southern charm, counseled Laura, the Mustang devotee, who was wearing a Hooters T-shirt. A lot of guys just lean out their windows and say ''Hi, cutie,'' she said. ''That's real redneck.''
 The point is just to get the ball rolling, she said. ''Just start a conversation -- 'Hey, how y'all doing?' '' If the chemistry is there, she continued, ''Then you pass by a couple of times, say you're going to meet here whenever it closes. And you meet and talk and whatever.''
 Even for teenagers whose traditional views on courtship, or strict parents, forbid certain whatevers, there is still plenty that is alluring on Patton. 
 ''O.K., there's that truck,'' said Jessica Lebetter, 17, hanging out with friends in the Sav-Mor pharmacy parking lot, as the big silver Dodge with the smokestacks crept slowly into view, heard before it was seen. 
 ''The big one?'' asked a friend, Joanie Jenkins, 18.
 ''Whoooohoooh!''
 Both suddenly hooted in approval, arms thrust skyward like Nascar fans celebrating Jeff Gordon in victory lane. The giant silver Dodge with the smokestack exhaust -- that weekend's Best in Show, it would seem -- had just taken a preening lap in front of Sav-Mor.
 ''The bigger the better,'' Jessica explained.
 ''And the bigger tires,'' Joanie added, sounding a bit smitten. She gazed at the silver truck, and added, in an tone of awe, ''That's an unusual vehicle there, with 27's''-- 27-inch rims, that is. ''Hey, let's go cruise,'' said a female voice from behind them. Soon enough, Joanie and Jessica headed off toward a waiting S.U.V.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SEARCH FOR LOVE -- Girls look for guys and guys look for girls (folding chairs in the bed of the truck are optional)
being stopped in traffic is a good chance to talk.
 IRRESISTIBLE -- Patton Avenue, Asheville, N.C., is the center of teenage activity on weekends, as young people cruise in their (or their parents') trucks, cars and S.U.V.'s. (Photographs by Benjamin Porter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); TRACK & FIELD (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (94%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



528 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Jeanne-Marie McEnerney, Kenneth Blazejewski 

 BODY:
Jeanne-Marie McEnerney, a daughter of Maureen R. McEnerney and Gerard A. McEnerney of Garden City, N.Y., was married yesterday in Princeton, N.J., to Kenneth S. Blazejewski the son of Alicia Sanchez Blazejewski and Carl Blazejewski of Bradenton, Fla. Msgr. Otto L. Garcia, the vicar general of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, performed the ceremony at the Princeton University Chapel. 
 Ms. McEnerney, 28, is keeping her name. She teaches science at the Browning School in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell.
Her father is the assistant vice president and executive director of the Staten Island campus of St. John's University. He is also a colonel in the Army Reserve. The bride's mother retired as a registered nurse in thoracic surgery at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
 Mr. Blazejewski, also 28, worked in Washington until this month as a trade fellow on the Democratic staff of the House Ways and Means Committee. He is a candidate for a law degree at New York University and a Master of Public Affairs at Princeton. He graduated cum laude from Harvard and was a Fulbright scholar from 1999 to 2000 in the Dominican Republic, studying Caribbean economic integration.
 His mother retired as a guidance counselor at Eastern District High School in Brooklyn. His father, also retired, was a Nassau County police lieutenant in Great Neck, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); RELIGION (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); ARMIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



529 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: The Math Was Complex, the Intentions, Strikingly Simple

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:
LONG before John Forbes Nash, the schizophrenic Nobel laureate fictionalized onscreen in ''A Beautiful Mind,'' mathematics has been infused with the legend of the mad genius cut off from the physical world and dwelling in a separate realm of numbers. In ancient times, there was Pythagoras, guru of a cult of geometers, and Archimedes, so distracted by an equation he was scratching in the sand that he was slain by a Roman soldier. Pascal and Newton in the 17th century, Godel in the 20th -- each reinforced the image of the mathematician as ascetic, forgoing a regular life to pursue truths too rarefied for the rest of us to understand.
 Last week, a reclusive Russian topologist named Grigory Perelman seemed to be playing to type, or stereotype, when he refused to accept the highest honor in mathematics, the Fields Medal, for work pointing toward the solution of Poincare's conjecture, a longstanding hypothesis involving the deep structure of three-dimensional objects. He left open the possibility that he would also spurn a $1 million prize from the Clay Mathematics Institute in Cambridge, Mass. 
Unlike Brando turning down an Academy Award or Sartre a Nobel Prize, Dr. Perelman didn't appear to be making a political statement or trying to draw more attention to himself. It was not so much a medal that he was rejecting but the idea that in the search for nature's secrets the discoverer is more important than the discovery.
 ''I do not think anything that I say can be of the slightest public interest,'' he told a London newspaper, The Telegraph, instantly making himself more interesting. ''I know that self-promotion happens a lot and if people want to do that, good luck to them, but I do not regard it as a positive thing.''
 Mathematics is supposed to be a Wikipedia-like undertaking, with thousands of self-effacing scriveners quietly laboring over a great self-correcting text. But in any endeavor -- literature, art, science, theology -- a celebrity system develops and egos get in the way. Newton and Leibniz, not quite content with the thrill of discovering calculus, fought over who found it first.
 As the pickings grow sparser and modern proofs sprawl in size and complexity, it becomes that much harder, and more artificial, to separate out a single discoverer. But that is what society with its accolades and heroes demands. The geometry of the universe almost guarantees that a movie treatment heralding Dr. Perelman is already in the works: ''Good Will Hunting'' set in St. Petersburg, where he lives, unemployed, with his mother, or a Russian rendition of ''Proof.''
 To hear him tell it, he is above such trivialities. What matters are the ideas, not the brains in which they alight. Posted without fear of thievery on the Internet beginning in 2002, his proof, consisting of three dense papers, gives glimpses of a world of pure thought that few will ever know.
 Who needs prizes when you are free to wander across a plane so lofty that a soda straw and a teacup blur into the same topological abstraction, and there is nothing that a million dollars can buy? Until his death in 1996, the Hungarian number theorist Paul Erdos was content to live out of a suitcase, traveling from the home of one colleague to another, seeking theorems so sparse and true that they came, he said, ''straight from The Book,'' a platonic text where he envisioned all mathematics was prewritten.
 Down here in the sublunar realm, things are messier. Truths that can be grasped in a caffeinated flash become rarer all the time. If Poincare's conjecture belonged to that category it would have been proved long ago, probably by Henri Poincare.
 It has taken nearly four years for Dr. Perelman's colleagues to unpack the implications of his 68-page exposition, which is so oblique that it doesn't actually mention the conjecture. The Clay Institute Web site carries links to three papers by others -- 992 pages in total -- either explicating the proof or trying to absorb it as a detail of their own.
 Those intent on parceling out credit may have as hard a time with the intellectual forensics: Who got what from whom? Dr. Perelman's papers are almost as studded with names as with numbers. ''The Hamilton-Tian conjecture,'' ''Kahler manifolds,'' ''the Bishop-Gromov relative volume comparison theorem,'' ''the Gaussian logarithmic Sobolev inequality, due to L. Gross'' -- all have left their fingerprints on The Book. Spread among everyone who contributed, the Clay Prize might not go very far.
 A purist would say that no one person deserves to stake a claim on a theorem. That seemed to be what Dr. Perelman, who has said he disapproves of politics in mathematics, was implying.
 ''If anybody is interested in my way of solving the problem, it's all there -- let them go and read about it,'' he told The Telegraph. ''I have published all my calculations. This is what I can offer the public.''
 He sounded a little like J. D. Salinger, hiding away in his New Hampshire hermitage, fending off a pesky reporter: ''Read the book again. It's all there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Calculations -- Newton feuded with Leibniz over the discovery of calculus, but Grigory Perelman, left, claimed to put himself above such banalities. (Photo by Agence France-Press/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Granger Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); RELIGION (50%) Mathematics; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Fields Medal; Poincare Conjecture

PERSON: George Johnson; Grigory (Dr) Perelman; Henri (1854-1912) Poincare

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); UNITED STATES (55%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



530 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Down And Up On the Bayou

BYLINE: By Regina M. Benjamin. 
Regina M. Benjamin is the founder and chief executive of the Bayou La Batre Rural Health Clinic.

DATELINE: BAYOU LA BATRE, Ala. 

 BODY:
SINCE Hurricane Katrina, we've heard our share of horror stories. There have been times when these stories seem to have overwhelmed everything else, including the acts of heroism and goodness that have taken place on a regular (and miraculous) basis here along the Gulf Coast. I thought I'd share my experiences of the last year in the hope of maybe balancing things out a bit.
 The fishing village where I live was depicted in ''Forrest Gump,'' though these days it does not look quite like the place you saw in the movie. That's because on the night of Aug. 28, a 25-foot wave surged over the town. Then the waters washed out like a tide a day and a half later, leaving Bayou La Batre clean even of debris and with hardly a habitable building standing. 
Of the town's 2,300 residents, 2,000 lost their homes. Shrimp boats were marooned in the pine trees, and with them, our economy. The medical clinic I run had filled with water up to my eyes, and it stank of shrimp, fish and old crab. If we didn't strip down the building within 48 hours, we would further lose the structure to mildew, so we set about gutting the place, removing everything that had sat below the five-foot water line.
 Though we lost our patients' medications, we didn't lose our patients. They were in a local shelter, along with some new clients who had fled Mississippi and Louisiana.
 The shelter was an auditorium, and we set up a makeshift clinic with an examining table and a couple of folding chairs on the stage; the shelter's residents slept below, so there was no privacy to be had. Seven days a week, we saw patients free of charge. We cut sheets of writing paper into quarters to use as prescription pads and instructed the pharmacists to bill us for medications, although we didn't know how we would ever pay the bill. 
 Many of Bayou La Batre's residents returned within 48 hours to strip their homes, just as we did the clinic. Alabama had activated its National Guard before the storm, so returnees found the guardsmen there, handing out water and ice. Volunteers from all over the country and even the world came to help us rebuild. Donations of everything imaginable poured in. Some residents pitched tents while they worked on their houses, camping out until well after Christmas; others stayed in shelters.
 After about six weeks of working at the shelter, I moved the clinic to a doublewide trailer behind our old, flood-damaged building. Volunteers cut down trees to make room for the trailer; donors helped us equip it with examination tables, lights and medicine. I got sewage pipes and electricity installed. 
 The space was awkward -- the waiting room could hold only a handful of people, who had to sit along a narrow hallway -- but at least we now had private examination rooms. Painstakingly, we recovered our patients' waterlogged medical charts and set them out to dry in the sun.
 We spent the fall restoring the clinic building with the help of many volunteers. Our staff moved furniture, equipment and medical charts into the newly renovated building, which was to open on Jan. 2. But on New Year's Eve, my telephone rang at 4 a.m. There had been a fire at the clinic, the police told me. They needed a ''key-holder'' to come to the scene. 
 How bad could the fire be, I wondered, if they needed me to unlock the door? Really bad. When I arrived, the clinic was still in flames. Everything the staff, volunteers and donors had struggled to rebuild had burned, literally, to the ground. The medical records we'd recovered were now ashes.
 The trailer we'd worked in through the fall was still there behind the building, and we would have to move back into it. Its siding, and even the window blinds, had melted and almost burned, but the space was still usable. We set about re-stocking and continued seeing patients. Through all of this, we never missed a day's work.
 Losing the new clinic building was a blow not only to us, but also to our community. Patients came by, some of them crying, others just hugging me and letting me know I wasn't in this alone. An elderly woman sent her daughter over with $7 in an envelope to help us rebuild, which we will surely do.
 My patients still feel the effects of the storm on their lives and health. Older patients living in FEMA trailers sometimes can't fit into the cramped bathrooms with their walkers. One diabetic patient in a trailer bumped into a cabinet and wound up losing part of his foot. But for many of these patients, the trailers were an improvement on the tents they'd been in before. 
 As difficult as the year has been, we have only to look to our west to know that it could have been worse. We are recovering, if slowly. Yes, the economy is sluggish, children attend classes in trailers, and many residents are still waiting for the FEMA flood plans before they rebuild their homes. But a new library has sprung up, and the baseball field where 100 FEMA trailers sat until June has been returned to the children who used to play there. 
 A game in a park in a small town in Alabama isn't big news, I know. But if a year ago that park -- and the community that surrounds it -- were under water, then it seems to me that news of that game is news worth sharing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jim Frazier)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (89%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); SHELLFISH FISHING (76%); PHARMACISTS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); CHRISTMAS (67%); FLOODS & FLOODING (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Volunteers; Children and Youth

PERSON: REGINA BENJAMIN (58%) Sheila Bosworth; Regina M Benjamin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Bayou La Batre (Ala); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



531 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Read Between All Those For-Sale Signs

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
REAL bubbles pop. They are fully formed one moment and gone the next. Financial bubbles rarely meet with such a definitive end, which has always been the biggest problem with the metaphor. They let out their air in unpredictable bursts, and it's usually impossible to figure out whether they have finished deflating or are just starting to. 
 Still, the latest housing numbers seem like they could be a turning point. A real estate crash might not be the most likely outcome, but it certainly seems legitimate to think about what one would look like.
The number of building permits being issued is falling at a rate usually seen only in recessions. In July, 11 percent fewer existing homes were sold than were sold a year earlier; 22 percent fewer new houses were sold. After the new-house data was released last week, Capital Economics, a consulting firm, wrote an e-mail message to its clients that began, ''New day, same depressing housing market story.'' 
 The fate of the housing market will influence whether the economy will merely slow over the next year, as the Federal Reserve forecasts, or fall into a recession for the first time since early 2001. Lehman Brothers, the investment bank, said Friday that ''for-sale'' signs had replaced gas-price signs as the most important indicator of potential trouble. 
 The collapse of most bubbles does not have a single obvious starting point, like a bad corporate earnings report or an interest-rate rise. Instead, the psychology of buyers and sellers shifts, slowly at first and then sometimes in a cascade.
 ''It's always mystified people about why these things turn,'' said Robert J. Shiller, a Yale economist and author of ''Irrational Exuberance,'' a history of speculation. ''People want something concrete.''
 There seem to be three major paths that housing could follow over the next year: a soft landing, the start of a long slump, or a crash. A soft landing is the one predicted -- and preferred -- by most economists on Wall Street and at the Fed. A long slump is what many past real estate booms turned into. A crash is the outcome that a small group of analysts say is the only possible ending for the biggest housing boom of all. 
 Their prediction looks better than it did a few weeks ago, but even they aren't sure whether this is the beginning of the end or another false turning point. ''The funny thing about bubbles,'' Mr. Shiller said, ''is that you never know when they're over.''
 For a crash to happen, prices would have to decline significantly in some once-hot markets. So far, as sales have slowed and the number of houses on the market has soared, many owners have chosen to sit tight. If they were instead to decide that selling later would be even worse than selling now, this could change quickly.
 The doomsayers' strongest argument may be that too few families can afford prices in some metropolitan areas. In Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Miami, prices have almost doubled since 2003, and they have risen about 50 percent in New York and San Francisco, the National Association of Realtors says.
 Jumps of this magnitude have little precedent. To afford homes, some buyers, especially in California, have resorted to aggressive mortgages, like those that allow artificially low payments in the early years. In effect, families seem to be buying houses they cannot afford, in the hope that their incomes or property values will rise significantly. ''Prices just shot up too much,'' said Robert T. McGee, chief economist at U.S. Trust, an investment firm based in New York. The firm has forecast a soft landing for housing, he said, but ''as time goes by that starts to look like wishful thinking.''
 If prices do decline, some of the first victims would be families in a financial bind that are unable to rescue themselves by refinancing their mortgage. Foreclosures would then rise, damaging banks and increasing the number of homes for sale.
 Even homeowners not in danger of losing their home -- an overwhelming majority, certainly -- might respond to falling prices by cutting spending, particularly if they had been counting on their home's value to serve as a retirement account. That could force job cuts in a wide range of industries.
 Already, the housing slowdown has begun damaging the job market. Builders, mortgage lenders and real estate agencies have stopped adding to payrolls. Defined broadly, the real estate sector has accounted for 44 percent of jobs created since 2000 and employs more than one in 10 American workers, according to Moody's Economy.com. 
 Perhaps the biggest reason to be skeptical about a real estate crash is that the country has not really suffered through one before. Not since the Depression has the combined value of residential real estate fallen over the course of a full year. Homes seem to be much less vulnerable to crashes than other assets, because people rarely sell them in a panic.
 But earlier booms have been followed by modest price declines in some cities that turned into long periods in which increases trailed inflation. After peaking in much of California and the Northeast in the late 1980's, house values fell during the recession of 1990-91 and then drifted for years, often rising more slowly than the price of milk. 
 In inflation-adjusted terms, prices in the New York and Washington areas did not return to their late-80's peak until 2002. In Boston, it didn't happen until 2000, and in San Francisco, 1999. 
 It isn't hard to imagine a similar chain of events over the next decade. Based on futures contracts traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, investors expect the median house price in Los Angeles, New York and some other regions to fall about 5 percent in the next year, which would be similar to the decline that started the 90's slump. 
 From there, prices might start rising again, but at a slow enough pace that incomes would eventually catch up. Families that now need an exotic mortgage to buy a house in Los Angeles could eventually afford one the old-fashioned way.
 Interest rates could play a role in a long slump, too. They have been falling for much of the last decade, helping push house prices higher by allowing buyers to afford bigger mortgages. Most economists expect rates to remain lower than they were a generation ago but not to return to the extremely low levels of a few years ago, making big swings in house prices, in either direction, unlikely.
 Christopher J. Mayer, director of the Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate at Columbia University, argues that the recent drop in sales does not suggest that a larger bust is coming. ''So far we have only seen people asking pie-in-the-sky asking prices and not getting them,'' said Mr. Mayer, who expects housing to continue slowing but not enough to create a recession.
 He believes that the boom in house prices was largely a result of the appeal of ''superstar cities'' like New York and San Francisco that are unlikely to lose their allure. In the much of the rest of the country, prices are not unusually high, considering the relatively low interest rates. 
 Moreover, few borrowers are falling behind on their mortgage payments, and the economy looks fairly healthy outside of housing. So if prices start falling, new buyers may jump into the market and prevent any extended slump. ''The fundamentals of real estate are solid, still,'' said James Gillespie, chief executive of Coldwell Banker, the real estate company.
 Which is it, then -- a brief pause, or a big correction?
 ''Either argument is very compelling. I can debate myself on it,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. ''That's why there's a great deal of uncertainty.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Julia Hoffmann)Chart: ''A History of Home Values''The Yale economist Robert J. Shiller created an index of American housing prices going back to 1890. It is based on sale prices of standard existing houses, not new construction, to track the value of housing as an investment over time. It presents housing values in consistent terms over 116 years, factoring out the effects of inflation.The 1890 benchmark is 100 on the chart. If a standard house sold in 1890 for $100,000 (inflation- adjusted to today's dollars), an equivalent standard house would have sold for $66,000 in 1920 (66 on the index scale) and $199,000 in 2006 (199 on the index scale, or 99 percent higher than 1890).DECLINE AND RUN-UP -- Prices dropped as mass production techniques appeared early in the 20th century. Prices spiked with post-war housing demand.BOOM TIMES -- Two gains in recent decades were followed by returns to levels consistent since the late 1950's. Since 1997, the index has risen about 83 percent.Graph tracks the index of American housing prices since 1890. Included are the following:WORLD WAR IGREAT DEPRESSIONWORLD WAR II1970'S BOOM1980'S BOOMCURRENT BOOM(Source by ''Irrational Exuberance,'' 2nd Edition, 2006, by Robert J. Shiller)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); WRITERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



532 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3091 words

HEADLINE: Whispers of Mergers Set Off Bouts of Suspicious Trading

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON; Jenny Anderson contributed reporting for this article, and Donna Anderson contributed research.

 BODY:
The boom in corporate mergers is creating concern that illicit trading ahead of deal announcements is becoming a systemic problem.
 It is against the law to trade on inside information about an imminent merger, of course.
But an analysis of the nation's biggest mergers over the last 12 months indicates that the securities of 41 percent of the companies receiving buyout bids exhibited abnormal and suspicious trading in the days and weeks before those deals became public. For those who bought shares during these periods of unusual trading, quick gains of as much as 40 percent were possible.
 The study, conducted for The New York Times by Measuredmarkets Inc., an analytical research firm in Toronto, scrutinized mergers with a value of $1 billion or more that were announced in the 12-month period that ended in early July. The firm analyzed the price, the total number of shares traded and the number of individual trades in each stock during the weeks leading up to the announcement and looked for large deviations from trading patterns going back as far as four years. 
 Although any number of factors can lead to spikes in trading, deviations of the kind observed by Measuredmarkets are among the data used by regulators to spot insider trading. Of the 90 big mergers in the period, shares of 37 target companies exhibited abnormal trading in the days and weeks before the deals were disclosed. 
 Christopher K. Thomas, a former analyst and stockbroker who founded Measuredmarkets in 1997, said that his company's analysis led to the conclusion that the aberrant activities most likely involved insider trading. Measuredmarkets provides examples of unusual trading to institutions, individuals and a regulatory organization in Canada.
 It is always possible that a company's stock moves because of developments in a particular industry or business sector, or because a prominent newsletter, columnist or blogger has written something that could prompt investors to take action. But in the companies that were analyzed, no such influences seemed to be at work. The companies were not the subject of widely dispersed merger commentary during the periods of abnormal trading, nor did they make any announcements that would seem to explain the moves.
 The analysis by The New York Times found that, in a handful of the mergers, significant progress toward a deal was being made on the days unusual trading occurred. For example, the day that four bidders were putting together buyout offers for Amegy Bancorp, a Houston bank company, trading in its stock quadrupled.
 Attempts to quantify the amount of potential insider activity in deals have come up short in the past, in part because the regulators with access to detailed information do not release it. The Securities and Exchange Commission does not disclose, for example, the percentage of referrals it receives from exchanges that wind up as cases.
 The S.E.C. would not comment on the study but said that it had looked at Measuredmarkets' system and concluded that surveillance techniques of self-regulatory organizations like the New York Stock Exchange were more sophisticated. 
 Securities regulators, traders and academics agree that merger waves lead to more illicit trading on nonpublic information. In Britain, regulators have made insider trading a primary focus and have shifted their scrutiny to brokerage firms and institutional investors, rather than individuals, involved in mergers. 
 Like Measuredmarkets, the Financial Services Authority in British has found a pattern of stock trading ahead of mergers. In 2004, 29 percent of companies involved in mergers experienced abnormal trading before public announcements, according to a March 2006 study of large British companies subject to takeovers. In 2001, the comparable figure was 21 percent. 
 The British study compared the stocks' price movements with previous returns, adjusted for overall market moves. The comparison period was 240 trading days, ending 10 days before the merger announcement.
 In this country, the S.E.C. has focused more on individuals than on institutions in its investigations. And even though merger activity has rocketed in recent years, the number of its cases involving insider trading has held in a range of 40 to 59 annually since 2000, the S.E.C. said.
 Some economists and academics assert that insider trading is essentially a victimless crime and therefore not worth deploying regulatory armies to battle. But there are losers, including small investors who miss out on gains, when such trading moves markets.
 Moreover, many investors are troubled by what they now see as rampant insider trading, saying it fosters the perception that insiders can profit in the markets at the expense of outsiders. 
 ''Martha Stewart got hurt very badly for something that happens every single day on Wall Street,'' said Herbert A. Denton, president of Providence Capital, a money manager and an adviser to minority shareholders. ''It's a falseness and a hollowness to the capitalist system when you are pretending that things are pristine and they are not. Either the S.E.C. should get very, very serious and prosecute a lot of people or forget about it.''
 Although Ms. Stewart was investigated for insider trading, she was found guilty of other related charges. 
 The S.E.C.'s handling of one insider-trading investigation is the subject of scrutiny by Congress after the firing last September of Gary J. Aguirre, a former staff attorney at the agency. Mr. Aguirre contends that his investigation into possible insider trading by Pequot Capital Management, a prominent hedge fund, was thwarted for political reasons by his superiors. He was fired after complaining, even though he had just received a merit pay increase. 
 Mergers and acquisitions present particularly rich opportunities for profiting on insider information, a violation of the securities laws written to keep all investors on a level playing field. That is why all those involved in corporate unions, from law firms to investment banks to those in between like printers, are supposed to keep quiet during the process.
 Officials from the nation's top securities regulators met on Aug. 18 to discuss emerging trends in insider trading, said Joseph J. Cella, chief of the office of market surveillance at the S.E.C. ''We are certainly cognizant of the uptick in merger-and-acquisition activity,'' he said. 
 The companies identified by Measuredmarkets represented many industries and received bids not only from corporate rivals, but also from private investor groups and management-led buyout teams. They included Amegy Bancorp, the subject of a $1.7 billion takeover announced last September by Zions Bancorp, the large Utah bank; CarrAmerica Realty, a real estate investment trust acquired for $5.6 billion by the private investment company Blackstone Group after a March announcement; Dex Media, a directory publisher whose $9.5 billion purchase by the R. H. Donnelley Corporation was disclosed in October; the IDX Systems Corporation, a health care systems company whose $1.2 billion acquisition by General Electric was announced in September; and Texas Regional Bancshares, which the Argentinian bank BBVA said it would acquire in June for nearly $2.2 billion.
 In each of the five cases, the abnormal trading occurred during periods of significant behind-the-scenes progress in the mergers, as outlined by the companies themselves in regulatory filings long after the deals were struck. 
 In the Amegy bank deal, the volume of shares traded more than quadrupled on a day when four of the bank's bidders were analyzing its financial records and preparing offers. Volume jumped in CarrAmerica's shares on Feb. 17, the day the real estate investment trust struck a confidentiality agreement with a potential bidder and Goldman Sachs began providing the bidder with an analysis of CarrAmerica's books.
 Trading in Dex Media increased sharply last Sept. 14, the day that management, legal teams and financial advisers representing the company and Donnelley met. And the price and the number of shares traded in IDX jumped on Sept. 7, when its chief executive and a G.E. executive talked and G.E. agreed to increase its bid by 5 percent. 
 Officials at the companies said that they were unaware of unusual trading in advance of the deals and declined to speculate on reasons for the action.
 Measuredmarkets has no way to identify who might have been behind the anomalous trading. But a few of the deals that it flagged are already under scrutiny by regulators. 
 In June, for example, the S.E.C. froze $1 million in trading gains of South American investors who profited on the June 12 buyout announcement of the Maverick Tube Corporation, an oil equipment maker, by Tenaris SA, a steel company with headquarters in Luxembourg. Anadarko Petroleum's June bid for the Kerr-McGee Corporation, a smaller rival, is also being investigated, according to a July 13 report in The Houston Chronicle; the transaction closed in August. The S.E.C., following its usual practice, declined to comment on the report. 
 The takeover crowd includes corporations, management-led buyout teams as well as private equity firms, which represent wealthy private investors. Companies' directors are reaching out to many potential bidders these days to ensure shareholders get the best price. In the process, they are expanding the number of people with knowledge of the deals.
 Still, it is undeniable that brokerage firms, with their varied businesses all under one roof, remain particularly well-positioned to capitalize on inside information. Not only do these firms advise buyers and sellers in mergers, giving them immense access, they also have proprietary trading desks that invest the firm's money in stocks and other securities, money management units that invest for clients and trading desks that profit mightily by executing trades for hedge funds. 
 Brokerage firms contend that barriers within their operations keep deal information from seeping out. But regulators at the Financial Services Authority in Britain are challenging these assertions. 
 In a July 7 speech, Hector Sants, managing director of wholesale and institutional markets at the F.S.A., described why his focus was shifting to institutions. ''Our spotlight will shine in particular on relationships between investment banks and their clients,'' he said, ''because we believe the risk of market abuse is highest where a client can be made an insider on a forthcoming deal.''
 The fast and furious pace of deals this year is increasing the opportunities for mischief. In each of the last three months, according to Thomson Financial, the value of announced mergers has exceeded $100 billion -- the longest stretch of such volume since 2000.
 Although the number of deals in the first seven months of this year slipped to 685 from 763 in the same period in 2005, the dollar amount of transactions rose 31 percent in that time, Thomson Financial said. 
 Regulators on the front lines also seem to be spotting more irregularities. Officials in the market surveillance unit of New York Stock Exchange Regulation Inc. have made more referrals to the S.E.C. this year than they did in the comparable period last year. As of last month, those regulators had referred 76 cases for possible investigation, up from 60 a year earlier. In 2005, the surveillance unit referred 111 cases, 63 percent more than the previous year. 
 The number of insider-trading cases filed by the S.E.C., though, has been relatively static. Walter G. Ricciardi, deputy director of enforcement at the S.E.C., said that 9 percent of the cases filed by the commission since Feb. 1 have been based on insider trading, which can encompass merger or any other news that would affect a company's market price. On a percentage basis, the cases have ranged from 7 percent to 12 percent of the agency's total since 2000.
 ''The yield is less probably than in comparable areas,'' Mr. Ricciardi explained of insider-trading inquiries. ''A lot of times the trading may look like something crazy, but you've got to have evidence.'' 
 Recent cases have centered on some relatively small players. In late December, for example, the S.E.C. sued Gary D. Herwitz, an accountant, and Tracey A. Stanyer, an executive vice president at Sirius Satellite Radio, for trading ahead of news in late 2004 that Sirius was going to award a $500 million contract to Howard Stern, a radio show host.
 Each settled with the S.E.C., without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Mr. Herwitz paid $52,000. Mr. Stanyer paid $35,000 and was barred from serving as officer or director of a public company. Mr. Herwitz pleaded guilty to insider trading in federal court in Brooklyn and was sentenced to two years' probation and a $20,000 fine earlier this year.
 In May, the S.E.C. sued Jason Smith, a letter carrier in New Jersey, contending he leaked grand jury information to a 14-person ring that included low-level employees of Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs, a worker for a printing company and a retired seamstress in Croatia. Regulators say that scheme generated $6.7 million in profits. 
 What about cases involving larger or more sophisticated investors? ''We certainly see institutional-type accounts that have come into the market with extraordinarily good timing on a repeat basis; we have investigated those,'' said Mr. Cella of the S.E.C. ''But to get the evidence to prove a violation of the statute under which we allege insider trading is difficult.'' 
 And that is true whether the case involves individuals or institutions.
 The British securities regulator, for its part, has cited the possibility of hedge funds profiting on insider information as a foremost concern. David Cliffe, a press officer at the F.S.A., said that hedge funds must be keenly watched because they have extensive and close relationships with investment banks that are in a position to provide nonpublic information in exchange for lucrative trading commissions. 
 Spotting abnormal trading is far simpler than bringing a successful insider-trading prosecution, as Mr. Cella of the S.E.C. noted. Still, the trading anomalies identified by Measuredmarkets are intriguing. 
 Consider Koch Industries' bid for Georgia-Pacific on Nov. 13. Senior officials of the companies first met to discuss a merger on Oct. 5. Koch Industries proposed to limit its purchase to certain Georgia-Pacific assets after the company, which makes forest products, had spun off other businesses to the public. Subsequent company filings noted that Danny W. Huff, Georgia-Pacific's chief financial officer, told Koch officials on Oct. 7 that such a deal would ''probably not'' be acceptable to his company's board.
 Merger talks continued through October and into November. Both sides conducted corporate analyses -- known as due diligence -- from Nov. 8-11. Koch Industries' board voted to approve a bid on Nov. 10.
 That day, volume in Georgia-Pacific shares jumped 37 percent above its 2005 average and the number of trades in the stock rose significantly as well, Measuredmarkets found. On Friday, Nov. 11, volume increased yet 66 percent more from the previous day's high level. Georgia-Pacific shares rose 5.5 percent over the period. The company made no announcements either day, and the overall market rose 1.3 percent over the two days.
 On Sunday, Nov. 13, Koch Industries announced that it would pay $21 billion for Georgia-Pacific, or $48 a share, a 39 percent premium to the closing price the previous Friday. Anyone who bought Georgia-Pacific shares on either Nov. 10 or Nov. 11 stood to gain 40 percent in just a few days.
 A spokeswoman for Koch Industries did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 Another case in point is the surprise merger, announced May 7, between the Wachovia Corporation, a bank holding company based in North Carolina, and Golden West Financial, a West Coast savings and loan. This time the unusual trading showed up both in the stock of Golden West Financial and in its call options. 
 Traders buy call options, giving them the right to purchase shares of the underlying company at a set price within a specified period, when they expect the stock to rise. Options provide the potential for a sharp profit because each option represents 100 shares. 
 On May 3, the number of Golden West's call options that changed hands was triple the daily average. Subsequent filings show that was the day Wachovia's board met to review a possible acquisition of Golden West and the day after Golden West's board met to weigh the bid. 
 Officials at Wachovia and Golden West said they did not know why the volume rose. 
 The probability of detection appears small, based on the number of cases brought in the United States, and the penalty for insider trading is often a negotiated settlement that may not involve much more than giving up the gains.
 An example is the S.E.C.'s conclusion of a case in 2004 with an employee of Fleet Boston. The employee, the S.E.C. said, made $473,000 by trading on knowledge of the bank's buyout by Bank of America. The commission exacted $525,000 in a settlement, which included his profits, prejudgment interest of $1,576.67 and a civil penalty of $51,842.36. 
 The penalty portion of such settlements, Mr. Ricciardi said, typically equals the illegal profits. The Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 allows for a penalty of up to three times those profits. 
 The S.E.C. dispenses a reward, up to 10 percent of the penalties, Mr. Ricciardi said, to tipsters whose information leads to a successful case. 
 When stocks gyrate because nonpublic information about deals has leaked out, many people are harmed. The most affected are those who sell shares in the company before it is taken over at a significant premium. An investor who sold Georgia-Pacific shares on Nov. 9, just before the unusual trading, missed a 46 percent gain. Those who sold the Andrx Corporation, just before unusual trading began last February missed, a 36 percent gain. 
 Others also lose. The company that makes the acquisition, for example, may wind up paying more. Investment advisers typically include a company's target share price and total market capitalization in the analysis of what an acquirer should be willing to pay. If a stock rises in the days or weeks during negotiations, the purchase price could be driven higher. A rising price could even scuttle a merger if the deal becomes too costly to the prospective buyer.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Days Before the Deal''A Study of large deals by Measuredmarkets found unusual trading activity in stocks of some acquired companies before the deals were disclosed to the public. In an example here, trading was heavy in Georgia-Pacific before Koch Industries revealed its plans to merge with the company.Chart shows Georgia-Pacific stock price, number of shares traded, and number of individual trades since Oct. 21, 2005.(Sources by Measuredmarkets
S.E.C. filings)Possible Early BenefitsA study of 90 large deals by Measuredmarkets found 38 companies with unusual trading in their shares before they were acquired. Here are five companies with big gains in their stock prices during the unusual trading period.Large deals preceded by unusual stock tradingTARGET COMPANY: Dex Media (directories)DEAL ANNOUNCED: Oct. '05DEAL VALUE: $9.7 billionCHANGE IN SHARE PRICE*: +14.2%NUMBER OF UNUSUAL TRADING DAYS: 5DEAL ACTIVITY DURING UNUSUAL TRADING: Management meets with biddersTARGET COMPANY: Texas Regional Bancshares (banking)DEAL ANNOUNCED: June '06DEAL VALUE: 2.2CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE*: +7.7NUMBER OF UNUSUAL TRADING DAYS: 4DEAL ACTIVITY DURING UNUSUAL TRADING: Management meets with biddersTARGET COMPANY: CarrAmerica Realty (real estate)DEAL ANNOUNCED: March '06DEAL VALUE: 4.5CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE*: +7.3NUMBER OF UNUSUAL TRADING DAYS: 4DEAL ACTIVITY DURING UNUSUAL TRADING: Confidentiality agreement signedTARGET COMPANY: IDX Systems (health care)DEAL ANNOUNCED: Sept. '05DEAL VALUE: 1.2CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE*: +6.7NUMBER OF UNUSUAL TRADING DAYS: 4DEAL ACTIVITY DURING UNUSUAL TRADING: Company representatives complete agreementsTARGET COMPANY: Andrx Corp. (pharmaceuticals)DEAL ANNOUNCED: March '06DEAL VALUE: 1.5CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE*: +6.2NUMBER OF UNUSUAL TRADING DAYS: 2DEAL ACTIVITY DURING UNUSUAL TRADING: Board meets to discuss various bids*Price movement from the first day of aberrant trading until the unusual trading ended.(Sources by Measuredmarkets
 company filings)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (91%); MERGERS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BONDS (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); WRITERS (62%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Securities and Commodities Violations; Insider Trading; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: AMEGY BANCORP INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



533 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Fiery Campaign Imperils Bosnia's Progress, Officials Warn

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
For a month usually devoid of political activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, August has been unusually fraught, as several incidents have raised ethnic tensions to a level not seen in years.
 On Aug. 11, a bomb severely damaged the tomb of Alija Izetbegovic, the former Bosnian president. Last week in eastern Bosnia, a group of Muslims forced their way into a Serbian church built on the former site of a mosque. And the broadcast of a videotape showing the wartime killing of an unarmed Bosnian Serb by Muslims prompted calls for a senior Bosnian general to be tried on war crimes charges.
Those incidents have been accompanied by a sharp increase in the expression of nationalist sentiments that is worrying international officials here as the country prepares for parliamentary and presidential elections on Oct. 1. 
 Milorad Dodik, the prime minister of Bosnia's Serbian republic, which makes up almost half of Bosnia's territory, has been the most outspoken. 
 On Aug. 18, he compared the Muslim-dominated Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, to Tehran, and he has repeatedly hinted over the summer that his republic should become an independent state.
 In an interview with BN TV, a Bosnian Serb television station, Mr. Dodik said he was ''sick and tired'' of the politics of the Muslim leaders, ''which makes fools of us so that we look like war criminals.''
 ''That is all over,'' he said.
 After almost 11 years of efforts to rebuild and stabilize Bosnia, the diplomats and international officials involved say that the country runs little risk of a resurgence of the level of conflict that claimed tens of thousands of lives from 1992 to 1995. But they say the tensions could prompt some violence, and worse, could threaten to unravel the long complex process aimed at making Bosnia a cohesive state that can operate without foreign intervention.
 ''Inflammatory rhetoric raises tensions, and this in turn can all too easily escalate into violence in a society where weapons are everywhere, alcohol plentiful and the summer long and hot,'' warned Christian Schwarz-Schilling, the country's most senior international official, known as the high representative, in an editorial in three Bosnian newspapers last week. ''The more abusive the campaign rhetoric now, the more difficult it will be to find the necessary partners to create functioning institutions,'' he wrote.
 Progress on a new constitution has stalled. For the past year, foreign officials and local politicians worked on plans to adopt a charter that would help to eliminate ethnic divisions and make the country easier to govern. After months of negotiations, brokered mainly by the United States, an agreement was reached by political parties in March, but on April 27, the legislation failed to get the necessary two-thirds majority in the Bosnian Parliament, missing by only two votes. Further discussion of the issue has been put off until after the elections.
 Bosnians on all sides concede that their current constitutional structure, which was established by the Dayton peace accords that brought an end to the fighting in 1995, is too complex and expensive to properly serve the needs of its people. 
 The accords set up a central federal government with three presidents, one for each of the three largest ethnic groups, a two-house legislature and a constitutional court. Two subentities -- one Serb, the other a Muslim-Croat federation -- have their own parliaments, prime ministers and 10 regional authorities, each with their own police forces and education, health and judicial authorities. This web of overall government expenditure absorbs 50 percent of Bosnia's gross domestic product, according the World Bank.
 The proposed constitutional changes, backed by the European Union and United States, would invest greater powers in a single prime minister with nationwide authority and reduce the ability of different parts of government to block legislation.
 Since the failure to pass the constitutional legislation, politicians from both the Serbian republic and the Muslim-Croat federation have sought to distance themselves from it, prompted, diplomats here say, by the need to shore up their political bases before the elections.
 Haris Silajdzic, a Muslim, a former foreign minister and a presidential candidate, has campaigned against the proposed changes, saying they would leave the Serbian republic in place. The Serbian entity should be abolished and absorbed into a stronger Bosnian state, he contends. That idea, diplomats here say, is unrealistic, but it appeals to nationalist Muslim voters.
 Diplomats here worry that Mr. Silajdzic, Mr. Dodik and other politicians may not be able to step back from such strong comments after the elections, which they would have to do to return to the negotiating table to write a new constitution.
 A further concern is the viability of the Office of the High Representative, which over the last four years, under the former British politician Lord Ashdown, has driven the efforts to make Bosnia a more cohesive state. European nations and the United States are proposing that the Office of the High Representative, which they oversee, be abolished by June 2007.
 Since 1997 the office has had the right to dismiss public officials and decree new laws, and Lord Ashdown made considerable use of those powers.
 But under Mr. Schwarz-Schilling, who took up the post at the end of January, the office is taking a very different role. 
 A 75-year-old former politician who worked with aid groups during the Bosnian war, Mr. Schwarz-Schilling immediately ruled out the use of the extensive powers except in support of the United Nations war-crimes tribunal in The Hague. Just before he took office, he told reporters that the country's ''citizens should leave the centuries-long tradition of expecting solutions to their problems to come from outsiders.'' 
 ''I am not a governor of a protectorate here,'' he said. 
 He said his primary role would be to enable local politicians to introduce changes by themselves. He has been reinstating some public officials fired by previous high representatives. 
 Several political commentators have accused Mr. Schwarz-Schilling of inadvertently paving the way for the nationalist resurgence by renouncing his powers so quickly. But Mr. Schwarz-Schilling said his refusal to intervene would better enable Bosnians to assume responsibility for their own affairs.
 ''They must be able to make mistakes,'' he said in an interview. ''It's not like in kindergarten -- if you don't do it, I will do it for you!''
 But he also said, ''I think it is clear we will not leave this country in an anarchical situation.'' 
 Many analysts as well as some leading Western diplomats worry that Mr. Schwarz-Schilling's voluntary diminishment of his office's reach, and its possible closure, are premature, at least while the constitutional changes are incomplete.
 ''Local authorities should take over the country, but it will be like giving us a broken car and saying, 'Here you are, now you can drive all the way to New York,' '' said Emir Habul, a political commentator and journalist who works for Bosnian national radio. He said it was up to the international community to ensure that Bosnia had working institutions before it removed the Office of the High Representative.
 A final decision on whether the office is to be closed will be made by Western governments in February.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 27 about an increase in the expression of nationalist sentiments in Bosnia as the country prepared for elections referred incorrectly to Muslims demonstrating outside a church on Aug. 14, and it paraphrased incorrectly a comment by the prime minister of Bosnia's Serbian republic. Although priests said that Muslims broke into the church in July, the Muslims did not force their way into the church in August. The prime minister, Milorad Dodik, said several times that his son had described the Muslim-dominated capital, Sarajevo, as Tehran; Mr. Dodik did not himself describe it that way. The error was pointed out in a letter by an official in Bosnia, and this correction was delayed for research.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bomb damaged the tomb of Alija Izetbegovic, the former Bosnian president, above, in Sarajevo on Aug. 11. (Photo by Hidajet Delic/Associated Press)
 A guard at Mr. Izetbegovic's tomb last week. The damage was repaired, but international officials say they fear more violence before elections. (Photo by Filip Horvat for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); WAR CRIMES (91%); POLITICS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RIOTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%) Demonstrations and Riots; Islam; Bombs and Explosives; Politics and Government; Christians and Christianity ; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

PERSON: Nicholas Wood

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bosnia and Herzegovina; Serbia and Montenegro

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



534 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fund Short or Full? Depends on the Evaluator 

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The disclosure that New York City uses two different methods to gauge its pension funds -- one showing they are fully funded, and another showing a $49 billion deficit -- has heaped fuel on a long-running debate over how to value pensions.
 The debate, being waged among actuaries, accountants and economists, is more than theoretical. Last week The New York Times reported that while officials usually describe New York City's pension plans as close to fully funded, an alternate calculation in the back of the plans' annual reports shows a $49 billion shortfall. If the alternate calculation has merit, the city will probably be forced to raise taxes or cut services at some point, to provide all the money promised to its retirees.
The question of which method is more reliable has nationwide implications. New York City's chief actuary, Robert C. North, is thought to be the only public pension official in the country to have done the second pension calculation -- which is more like the way a bank might account for its money. If actuaries for the many other towns and states with pension plans were to follow suit, big deficits would probably start popping up from coast to coast. 
 ''What this highlights, for us, is a big problem,'' said Robert A. Kurtter, the senior vice president for state ratings at Moody's Investors Service, the bond rating agency. People like Mr. Kurtter are supposed to keep bond buyers informed of the likelihood that the thousands of American cities, counties, school districts, transit authorities and the like that issue bonds will pay them off uneventfully and on schedule. 
 ''In any financial report, there are a wide range of assumptions and acceptable practices,'' Mr. Kurtter said. ''But in the area of public pensions, it seems, the range of acceptable methods is extremely wide. Given that extremely wide spectrum, which runs from extremely generous to extremely conservative, it becomes very difficult to value these systems on a consistent basis across the country.'' 
 Mr. Kurtter said he would like the accounting and actuarial professions to provide more guidance on which methods should be used, and what they mean. But he will probably have to wait. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which sets the rules, is in the initial stages of reviewing the 12-year-old standard governments use when reporting pension values. Any changes are likely to take years.
 Accounting experts have said that New York's official method, which makes the plan look fully funded at all times, does not comply with the current standard.
 Parry Young, a municipal credit analyst with Standard & Poor's, said the firm was aware that there were many ways to measure pensions, and that some methods, like the ones used by New York City and State, could make pension plans look fully funded no matter what.
 Mr. Young said that it was hard to know what to make of such numbers, and that Standard & Poor's, therefore, looked for other signs of a city's creditworthiness. He added, however, that the city's method helped build assets faster than other methods. He also said that in the future, when Standard & Poor's issued reports ranking public pension funds by their financial strength, he would probably flag cities whose pension numbers were artificially pegged at full funding.
 At its heart, the debate over pension numbers is about whether it makes sense to measure pensions the way the stock and bond markets would. 
 Normally, pension values are measured by actuaries, who have their own, decades-old methods for tracking the value of the assets in a pension fund, and the value of the promised benefits. The methods give the actuary wide latitude in making assumptions about future economic conditions, and tools for phasing in corrections when the assumptions prove wrong. One assumption that is almost always wrong is the one for how much investment income a pension fund's assets will earn in the coming year. 
 Actuaries say these errors do not matter, because they are always phasing in the corrections, slowly but surely, year after year. 
 ''The traditional actuarial model was developed to help employers develop a cash set-aside strategy,'' said Jeremy Gold, an independent actuarial consultant in Manhattan. ''For budgeting purposes, they didn't want to put aside varying amounts. They wanted to create a smooth pattern of annual contributions.''
 Dozens of actuarial methods for tracking pension funds have been created over the past century. All of them, Mr. Gold said, ''emphasized what employers wanted: smooth, steady, predictable.'' 
 It is this type of methodology that makes New York City's pension plan look fully funded at all times. The numbers are smoothed so much that they never change much at all.
 Gary Findlay, of the Missouri State Employees' Retirement System, said that while it was unusual for a plan to seem fully funded at all times, he believed New York City's actuarial method was ''perhaps the most fiscally conservative of all the methods available.'' The actuarial numbers bear little or no resemblance to what Wall Street would come up with if it were to measure a pension fund. A Wall Street analyst--or an economist schooled in modern financial theory -- would first count up all the assets in a pension fund at their market values on a given day. 
 The next step would be to map out all the pension payments owed to retirees in the future, and to use current, market rates of interest to discount them back to today's dollars -- the same basic financial calculation that is used throughout the financial services industry to assign present-day values to things like bonds and mortgages that are paid over time. The interest rates would be chosen to match the characteristics of the pensions, so that a guaranteed pension payment falling due 30 years from now would be discounted with the interest rate for a safe 30-year bond.
 Finally, the economist would subtract the value of the pension assets from the value of the promised benefits. The difference would be the shortfall. 
 But when Mr. North applied this method to New York City's pension fund, he was breaking a powerful taboo. Actuaries almost never divulge the market-based numbers. 
 Business groups argue such secrecy is needed because the market-based numbers would needlessly alarm workers and retirees. City officials expressed similar concerns, saying it would be irresponsible to report Mr. North's alternative calculation in a newspaper article because the calculation is used only in special circumstances, like corporate mergers or bankruptcies. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said last week that he thought both methods seemed ''rational'' to him. 
 Mr. Gold, the rare actuary who also holds a Ph.D. in economics, said there are times when market-based pension numbers are of vital importance and should not be dismissed or hidden. 
 He worked on Wall Street in the 1980's, when market-based calculations revealed huge surpluses in pension funds. Mr. Gold knew his fellow actuaries were telling their corporate clients to disregard the surpluses; the actuarial methods would smooth them away soon enough. 
 But companies that heeded that advice found themselves in the sights of corporate raiders, who calculate everything on a market basis and easily spotted the surplus money in corporate pension funds. They moved in and snatched it away before the actuarial smoothing had a chance to work its magic. In some cases, the pension money was used to finance the raids. Downsizings often followed, and employees lost benefits they had been counting on.
 Mr. Gold found these events so troubling that he left Wall Street and went back to school to complete a doctoral degree in financial economics. His research analyzed how financial theories might be applied to actuarial science. Today he is an outspoken participant in the debate over pension numbers, advocating the market approach. ''It's important that people get an honest, transparent look at these things,'' he said. 
 His camp has gained some ground in the last few years. Congress recently passed amendments to the federal pension law that added a degree of market discipline. The board that writes accounting rules for American companies is working in that direction too. 
 But change seems to come more slowly in the world of public pension plans. In an academic journal, Mr. North recently hinted that a government actuary who embraced the teachings of financial economics ran some of the same risks as the first people who theorized that the world was round. 
 It ''may not result in being burned alive at the stake,'' he said. ''However, if the world is actually round, then the actuarial profession needs to find a way to transition from saying that the world is flat to saying that the world is round.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTUARIAL SERVICES (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BONDS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); CITIES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%) Accounting and Accountants; Pensions and Retirement Plans; States (US); Local Government

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (59%) Governmental Accounting Standards Board

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



535 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
HUGGINS, ROBERT LANCE

 BODY:
 HUGGINS--Robert Lance. Passed away on Wednesday, August 16, 2006 at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge. He was 68. Descendent of pioneers in Arkansas for whom President Martin Van Buren signed a homestead land grant, Robert was born in Springfield, MA and then lived in Glen Ridge from his teen years. A 1960 grduate of Centre College in Kentucky, he joined the National Guard and was called to active duty during the Berlin Crisis. A retired banker, Robert served as a loan officer with several banks, including the old Meadowbrook National, National Westminster, Central Jersey Bank and others, as they merged and remerged. Robert served as Scoutmaster of Glen Ridge Boy Scout Troop 1 for many years, and was active in scouting on the state level. Philately was an enduring interest. Robert was founding member No. 6 and chairman of the board of directors of the international society for Portuguese philately. He participated in competitions in England, winning the Urwick Challenge cup twice and the Society bowl once. He showed at the Philadelphia National Stamp Exhibition earning several George Pearson Memorial Awards and the reserve grand award for Portuguese Military Mail in 1999. A mentor to youths, he enjoyed imparting to them how studying philately could enrich their studies of many fields -history, geography and economics. He is survived by his brother, Leroy Gale Huggins of Plainsboro, NJ. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CENTRAL JERSEY BANK & TRUST CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (72%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



536 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles and Farm Area Duel Over Disposal of Waste

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
Every year, Los Angeles sends 65 million gallons of sludgy processed human waste to a farm it owns in Kern County to be used as fertilizer. That is enough to fill an Olympic-size swimming pool every four days. 
 Kern County residents voted in June to stop accepting all but a small fraction of the waste, but Los Angeles responded this month with a federal lawsuit, arguing that the county's initiative should be thrown out because it discriminated against the city.
The lawsuit reflects a decades-old problem in Los Angeles and other large cities: what to do with all that waste.
 For years, Los Angeles waste flowed from treatment plants into the ocean, leading to legal battles with conservationists who said it was choking marine life.
 In 2000, Los Angeles leaders thought they had found an elegant solution: spread the treated waste over a 4,700-acre farm the city bought for nearly $10 million about 15 miles south of Bakersfield in Kern County.
 The waste helps grow corn, wheat and alfalfa. Those crops are fed to cows, and the milk they produce is sold.
 The farm, Green Acres, was hailed as a success story, winning awards from the Environmental Protection Agency and other organizations. The farm's Web site shows red trucks trundling across lush green fields.
 ''We thought we found a responsible solution,'' said Cynthia M. Ruiz, president of the Board of Public Works.
 But many residents of Kern County, one of the nation's most productive farming regions, disagreed. 
 A group called Keep Kern Clean rallied around the slogan ''Send the sludge packing.'' They used a photo of a two-story outhouse with the top door labeled ''L.A. County'' and the bottom ''Kern County.''
 ''We shouldn't allow L.A. to become the greenest and cleanest city in America at the expense of our own,'' said State Senator Dean Florez, a Democrat who opposes the farm. 
 Some worry that the sludge will pollute groundwater; others say it will hurt Kern County's economy even if it is safe.
 The waste is not being used on edible crops, but ''the concern is very real that people would not be able to make the distinction,'' said Barbara Patrick, chairwoman of the Kern Board of Supervisors.
 About half the nation's human waste is applied to land, according to the E.P.A. It can be used on crops for human consumption if federal and state rules are followed, but the agency says it is used on less than 1 percent of American farmland.
 Los Angeles is scrambling to come up with alternatives in case the lawsuit fails. Officials say the most promising option would be to inject the waste under Terminal Island, near the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach.
 That would raise a question Kern County critics used to pass their initiative: If the waste is safe, why doesn't Los Angeles use it, for golf courses or lawns?
 A small part of the treated waste is composted at a city park, but Ms. Ruiz said larger-scale efforts to use it in the city had failed.
 ''We tried to sell compost from some of our green waste,'' she said, ''and couldn't find a market for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HECTOR DE J RUIZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



537 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: Teach Your Children Well

BYLINE: By Judith Shulevitz. 
Judith Shulevitz is a critic and essayist.

 BODY:
WHEN SEX GOES TO SCHOOL
 Warring Views on Sex -- 
 and Sex Education -- Since the Sixties.
 By Kristin Luker.
 368 pp. W.W. Norton & Company. $25.95.
Only toward the end of a 300-odd page book about sex education in America does Kristin Luker permit herself a bottom line: it doesn't matter what teachers say because it won't change what students do. Only that's not how she puts it. Luker, a sociologist, avoids bold assertion. She prefers to excavate her points with a fine brush. Does sex ed lead teenagers to have more sex or have it sooner, as critics insist? There's no evidence that it does. Does sex ed increase contraceptive use, as defenders reply? Also hard to prove. American teenage girls start having sex later than they did 10 years ago and favor birth control more and get pregnant less than they did 20 years ago, but if sex education can claim credit for their caution, it can't claim much. AIDS and virginity pledges are equally proximate causes. 
 So why do school boards panic when forced to vote on human sexuality curriculums? Why has the Republican Party deemed support for abstinence education worthy of inclusion on its national platform? Luker, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of the landmark book ''Abortion and the Politics of Motherhood'' (1984), has been talking to activists for and against sex education for a somewhat astounding 20 years, and at this point probably knows what they're thinking better than they do. In ''When Sex Goes to School'' (a cheesy title, but never mind), she argues that the fight over sex education is no mere bread-and-circuses distraction from the so-called real issues. Nor are our differences of opinion minor fractures in the social body. We can't agree about sex education because we can't agree about sex, and the way in which we disagree about sex has everything to do with how we're breaking apart as a nation. 
 Luker identifies Americans' competing visions of sexuality as ''liberal'' and ''conservative,'' but even she acknowledges that those terms are too flabby to nail down our real differences. More muscular terms, it seems to me, would be ''naturalist'' and ''sacralist.'' Naturalists, whom Luker calls sexual liberals, hold that sex is natural and unmysterious, a healthy, pleasurable, quasi-recreational activity. Sacralists, whom Luker calls sexual conservatives, consider sex sacred but dangerous, transformative when contained by marriage but destructive outside it. Sex education, to the naturalist, involves nothing more than helping young people manage the risks of having sex by giving them the facts. It's information, not values. To the sacralist, conventional sex education is chock-full of values, but all the wrong ones. It's an indoctrination in secularism, teaching kids to be irresponsible and draining sex of its mystery and power. ''Sexuality isn't peanuts and popcorn, although there are those who made it be that,'' says one minister Luker talked to. ''Thinking of sex that way, it's such a diminution of what is actual and real.''
 Luker traces the debate about sex education back to its invention by the ''social hygienists'' of the Progressive era, but she locates the source of present-day hostilities in the sexual revolution of the 1960's, which she calls as ''disorienting and historically important'' as the French, American and Russian Revolutions. ''Like them,'' she writes, ''it will continue to reshape human life in profound ways for many, many years to come.'' She illustrates her thesis with stories from four small towns across America where sex-ed disputes became bitter enough to attract media attention. (Luker picked her locales with the help of a clipping service, which may explain her book's biggest handicap. She interviewed mainly active members of the Protestant religious right and their opponents -- most of them parents -- who showed up en masse at school board hearings. It would have been nice to hear from observant Jews, Muslims and Catholics, and also from teenagers, even if they don't testify before school boards in newsworthy numbers.) 
 Many of Luker's most telling stories come from what you might call the sexual neoconservatives, liberals who were mugged, to borrow a phrase, by some painful encounter with extramarital sexuality. Sandy Ames, for example, started out as a supporter of the National Organization for Women: ''I was moving up, I was in middle management, and I had my own company car. All that kind of stuff, at 25. Married and got pregnant and he left me, and it just kind of opened my eyes.'' That's when she moved back in with her parents, had her daughter, started going to church and wound up opposing sex education. Then there's Mrs. Boland, as Luker calls her, who probably started out as a conservative but became a radical when her husband raped their daughter. It's not, she told Luker, that her husband had ever taken a sex-ed class; it's that the ''morally neutral, 'values-clarification''' approach had frayed the social restraints that she feels ought to have kept men like her husband in line. ''The way sex is taught nowadays,'' said Mrs. Boland, in Luker's paraphrase, ''takes the 'thou shalt nots' out of it and validates personal preference over right and wrong.''
 Luker, however, makes it hard to accept generalizations about the way sex is taught nowadays. The battle lines are clear. There's ''comprehensive'' sex education, so called because it's meant to start early and keep going through 12th grade, and also because it teaches safe sex along with biology. And there's abstinence education, in which teachers tell students not to have sex till marriage. ''Comprehensive'' sex ed describes; abstinence education proscribes. But such distinctions tend to blur in the classroom. Opponents of sex education are forced to tailor their message to the Internet generation by presenting self-restraint not as a moral necessity but as a choice, as well as a form of birth control -- the safest form -- and from that, any smart student could deduce that sex involves making choices and that contraception is good. Meanwhile, ''comprehensive'' sex educators have stopped sneering at abstinence, if they ever actually did. A surprisingly large number of teachers in ''comprehensive'' programs (few of which are particularly comprehensive) told researchers in one study that the message they want their students to take home is not to have sex. 
 If the two sides are moving closer together and sex education doesn't work anyway, what exactly are we fighting about? The drama of this book comes from watching the exceptionally thoughtful Luker try to figure that out. ''The sexual conservatives and sexual liberals I interviewed live in the same towns, practice the same professions, have similar educational and social backgrounds ... and often belong to the same church,'' she writes. And yet, she concludes, ''the two sides have very little in common.'' They disagree on ''basic questions about human nature,'' and therefore on the kind of society they want to live in. Conservatives are ''modern-day Calvinists'' who believe ''humans are fundamentally capable of the worst'' and that society must protect itself through hierarchies, boundaries and unquestionable moral codes. Liberals worry about society encroaching on the individual, and have doubts about all of the above.
 One way to get these conflicting worldviews out in the open is to fight about marriage, which Luker thinks is the true subject of the sex-ed wars. Irene Thomas married at 28 and wouldn't want her daughter getting married much earlier than that, because the girl needs time to establish a career and also because Irene considers early marriage -- ''usually done on a hormonal basis'' -- a mistake. Judy Samson, happy to have married at 30, wouldn't want her daughter to have to wait till then to make love: She would ''feel a sense of loss if my daughter had no sexuality until she was 29 or 30.'' These women consider marriage one choice among others -- the right one, probably, but only when people are ready -- and want their children to be acquainted with their other options in the meantime. But to Jenny Letterman, marriage is the only option, and she doesn't want her son encountering mixed messages that might lead him astray, so that he comes to marriage as '''damaged goods,' hardened and jaded and closed off from the miracle of true emotional and physical intimacy that a happy marriage can bring,'' Luker writes. She ''can't just live and let live because marriage, one of the most cherished institutions in her life, is being devalued in the classroom.''
 In a nice twist ending, Luker, who starts out a textbook liberal, comes to see what Jenny means. The advent of contraception and abortion may have allowed some women to pursue their dreams, but ''by loosening men's ties to marriage and family'' it made those more interested in marriage than careers more likely to wind up as poor, single mothers. Luker also thinks that marriage is under stress, although, being a sociologist, she ascribes that stress to socioeconomic forces -- the impoverishment of the working class, which makes the poor less able to afford marriage; the rise of a wealthy elite free not to worry about the vicissitudes of single parenthood -- rather than to declining American morals. Luker even sees merit in abstinence education. While researching her book, she was stunned to learn how much pressure teenagers now put on one another to have sex. By making it a virtue to refrain, she says, ''abstinence programs may in fact provide valuable social support for the idea that young people (young women in particular) don't have to be sexually active if they don't want to be.'' They could create a ''zone of sexual autonomy.''
 But if the notoriously inconclusive data on sex education show anything, it's that teaching abstinence makes it more likely that young people will have unsafe sex once they start having it. So what to do? Unsatisfyingly but perhaps unsurprisingly, Luker gives two answers, one typically liberal, the other somewhat more conservative. The liberal answer: more choices and more information. Teach both the naturalist and sacralist perspectives as part of an important lesson in civic life, which is that fellow citizens may legitimately disagree about how sexuality contributes to ''social and personal flourishing.'' Her conservative answer: take the long view. ''If what is at stake is both a real and metaphorical attempt to manage one of the largest and most pervasive cultural, social, political and economic shifts of our times within the intimate realm of the family,'' she writes, ''you can imagine that it might be difficult to get opposing sides to sit down and come up with a working plan.'' It might indeed.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX EDUCATION (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (68%); ABORTION (68%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Judith Shulevitz; Kristin Luker

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



538 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Ashley Levy, John Kemper

 BODY:
Ashley Blake Levy, the daughter of Reesa and Stephen J. Levy of Manhattan, was married last evening to John Woods Kemper, a son of Dorothy and David W. Kemper of Ladue, Mo. Rabbi Charles Davidson officiated at the Lighthouse at Chelsea Piers, with Timothy A. Ahern, a member of the Christian Brothers, a Roman Catholic order, taking part. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 28, graduated from Stanford, where they met.
Mrs. Kemper was until this month a summer associate in the Chicago office of the law firm of Latham & Watkins and next month is to begin her final year of law school at Northwestern. 
 Her father, a pharmacist, owns the Pollock-Bailey Pharmacy in Manhattan. Her mother is the principal of Sheepshead Bay High School in Brooklyn.
 Mr. Kemper is a project manager in the Chicago office of McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, helping clients with operations and strategy. He received a master's degree in economic history from the London School of Economics. 
 His father is the chairman and chief executive of Commerce Bancshares in Clayton, Mo., the parent company of the Commerce Banks in Kansas, Missouri, Illinois and Nebraska. He is also the chairman of the board of Washington University in St. Louis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEBRASKA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



539 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Death and Taxes in Connecticut

 BODY:
Last year, many state Republicans and some commentators predicted that millionaires would soon stampede from Connecticut, fleeing south. The issue was not the cold winters or high property taxes. The issue was the decision to make Connecticut's estate tax permanent. 
 Some saw the move as a blatant attempt to soak the rich. Others made dire predictions that the very economy of the state would be shaken as, presumably, the well-heeled searched for a more financially advantageous place in which to die.
It all seemed a little tinged with hysteria. And so far these fears appear to have little basis in fact. Since the inheritance tax was first increased in 2003 (in a move that was supposed to be temporary), the number of millionaires has increased 44 percent. Those making $2 million or more are up 57 percent.
 Higher taxes for those in upper-income brackets have long been an ideological fault line in Connecticut, with Democrats traditionally arguing in favor of inheritance taxes and higher income taxes for the rich, and Republicans fighting both concepts, partly on the grounds that they will drive away the better-off and ultimately hurt more than help. 
 The basic income tax rates have not changed since they were first instituted in the early 1990's; a married person in Connecticut making more than $20,000, for example, is taxed at a maximum marginal rate of 5 percent, no matter how high that person's salary or how great his or her assets. 
 The inheritance, or estate, tax is another story. Connecticut's estate tax for years was linked to the federal inheritance tax. But as the federal tax dwindled, so did the state's tax collections. In response, state legislators in 2003 fashioned a tax that could function apart from the federal tax and promised it would be a temporary fix for a budget shortfall. The tax applied to estates worth more than $1 million. 
 But the ''temporary'' tax brought in more money than predicted. During another budget shortfall last year, Gov. M. Jodi Rell signed a law that made the tax permanent, while raising the size of estates to which it would apply to $2 million or more. 
 The move infuriated people who believed that the tax was unfair and would hurt the economy. Others assumed that the well-off would move to places like Florida, which does not tax estates. 
 Even Governor Rell seemed to have regrets. She asked the legislature to repeal the law this year. The Democratic-controlled General Assembly refused. One reason is that the tax brings in about $150 million, though that does not loom large in a $15 billion budget. The other and perhaps more important reason is that the issue has come to symbolize the differences between the two parties. 
 The numbers reveal little negative impact so far, although the debate will surely continue, and may escalate during this campaign season. There is no reason that voters should not hear arguments for and against the tax. But these arguments should be based on the merits, not on fears of an exodus that has not happened. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); INCOME TAX (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Taxation; Editorials; Inheritance and Estate Taxes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



540 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Saying It Is Not a Threat, Iran Opens a Heavy-Water Reactor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
Just days before it is supposed to suspend enrichment of uranium or face the prospect of sanctions, Iran continues to project an image of defiance and confidence. Its position regarding the demand that it suspend enrichment remains a determined ''no.''
 On Saturday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made a provocative, if symbolic, gesture by formally inaugurating a heavy-water reactor. The Iranians say the plant would be used for peaceful power generation. But nuclear experts note that heavy-water facilities are more useful for weapons because they produce lots of plutonium -- the preferred ingredient for missile warheads. 
''There are no talks of nuclear weapons in Iran,'' President Ahmadinejad said as he announced the opening of the plant. ''And we are not a threat for any country, even the Zionist regime that is the enemy of the countries in the region.''
 But he added, ''We tell the Western countries not to cause trouble for themselves because the Iranian people are determined to take big steps.''
 The action was the latest in a series of not-too-veiled threats against the West if Iran is saddled with sanctions.
 But Iran's public posture has all but guaranteed that the members of the United Nations Security Council will have to at least address Iran's violations of the resolution setting Aug. 31 as the deadline for suspending enrichment.
 Iran's public confidence is based on three primary factors, political analysts here said: a strong belief that two of the council's permanent members, Russia and China, will support Iran's call for talks and oppose moving toward sanctions; the conclusion that the United States is far too bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan to be willing to engage in another conflict in the region; and the feeling that the perceived victory of Hezbollah in its war with Israel has strengthened Iran's political capital in the region.
 ''After the defeat of Israel by Hezbollah forces, China and Russia should not want to leave the side that won the war, which is the Islamic world,'' said Hossein Shariatmadari, editor of the conservative daily newspaper Kayhan.
 On Tuesday, Iranian officials formally responded to a package of incentives that Western diplomats had hoped would encourage Tehran to voluntarily suspend uranium enrichment. Iran still faces an Aug. 31 deadline to comply with the Security Council resolution threatening punitive actions if Iran does not stop.
 Though Iran's response was accompanied by moderate comments from Iranian officials, it did not accept suspension. The 21-page document was provided to the five permanent members of the Security Council and Germany at a meeting in Tehran. The Swiss ambassador accepted it on behalf of the United States, which does not have diplomatic relations with Iran.
 While the details of the response were not released, Mr. Shariatmadari, who was appointed by Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said the package noted 50 ''ambiguities'' in the incentives package that needed clarification. Those, he said, included questions as basic as ''Who is responsible for implementing the incentives,'' he said. ''The E.U., the U.S., the nuclear agency, who?''
 Soon after it gave its reply, Iran's public posture reverted back to confrontation. The deputy speaker of Parliament, Mohammad Reza Bahonar, cautioned that too much pressure on Iran could lead to calls for a nuclear weapons program.
 ''Our country is confronted with illogical countries who have nuclear weapons,'' he was quoted as saying in Saturday's edition of the reformist newspaper Shargh. ''If they put too much pressure, our people might ask the government to produce nuclear weapons as a deterrent instrument.''
 On Friday, a midlevel cleric, Ahmad Khatami, said during a Friday Prayer ceremony that the West ought to be cautious in the way it addressed Iran.
 ''You cannot use the language of force against this nation,'' Mr. Khatami said in a speech broadcast around the nation from central Tehran. ''Do not test us as you have tested us before.''
 As is customary, Mr. Khatami stood with his right hand gripping the barrel of an automatic weapon as he addressed thousands of people gathered for the ceremony. ''You cannot deal with a nation as great as the Iranian nation this way. It is a very stupid approach. Russia and China, we count on you to be careful not to fall into the trap America has set for you.''
 For Iran, the issue of its nuclear program is as much about domestic politics as it is about international relations.
 President Ahmadinejad was elected last year on a populist economic message, promising a redistribution of the nation's vast oil wealth and immediate economic improvements. Instead, while the economy remains gridlocked, inflation and unemployment high, Mr. Ahmadinejad has turned the nuclear issue into his raison d'etre. Focusing on national pride, the president and Ayatollah Khamenei have succeeded in winning public support for the nuclear program. 
 While the depth of that support could be tested by sanctions, the president continued to appeal to pride as he opened the heavy-water plant in Arak, south of Tehran.
 ''Having nuclear technology and using it is a blessing and is the right of all nations, including Iran,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said. ''As the people's representative, I pursue whatever people want. Today they want to have nuclear technology and I pursue this demand and will not back down.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article and headline on Sunday about Iran's nuclear program referred incorrectly in some copies to a facility that the Iranian president inaugurated. It was a heavy-water plant, not a reactor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (88%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); TERRORISM (67%); RELIGION (64%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (60%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Uranium ; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Plutonium; Terrorism; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) United Nations; Hezbollah

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%) Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN (93%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%) Iran; China; Russia; Iraq; Lebanon; Israel; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



541 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: AFGHANISTAN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Disputes Spur His Critics, Karzai Says 

BYLINE: By SULTAN M. MUNADI

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai said Saturday that recent criticism of his leadership and his administration stemmed from disagreements that he had had with some partners of the United States-led coalition in Afghanistan over the conduct of military operations. 
 ''For some time, some circles of the Western media have started special propaganda against me and the Afghan government,'' he told journalists at a joint news conference with Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende of the Netherlands.
''We had some disagreements with some members of the international coalition against terrorism concerning counterterrorism, and maybe they did not like those arguments,'' he said. ''And their media, because of that, started propaganda against us.'' 
 Mr. Karzai has recently come under sharp criticism at home and abroad for failing to protect the country from violence and manage the economy, and for allowing widespread corruption in his government. And as the insurgency has worsened, confidence in his leadership has fallen.
 In response, he has repeatedly blamed the worsening insurgency in southern Afghanistan on infiltration from Pakistan, and has called on the United States and its coalition allies to direct their attention against training camps and financing and recruiting efforts for the insurgency in that country. 
 He has lamented that Afghans are dying in a war being fueled from outside the country's borders. He has also said that for two years he had been warning members of the United States-led coalition that the Taliban was a growing danger but that his warnings were not taken seriously.
 ''The Americans told him they would take care of the Taliban and cross-border infiltration, and two years later, it's gotten worse,'' a Western diplomat in Kabul said. ''President Karzai feels let down.''
 Mr. Balkenende, whose country has deployed 1,400 soldiers in Uruzgan Province as part of a NATO force, agreed the insurgency was fueled by fighters from Pakistan. He called for stronger cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan to combat the insurgency.
 ''It is no use fighting against those forces who are jeopardizing the prospects of the population in Uruzgan,'' he said, ''while at the same moment constantly new people are coming in.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); CORRUPTION (53%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%); JAN PETER BALKENENDE (55%) Sultan M Munadi; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%) Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



542 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The New Fed Isn't Phoning In Its Interest Rate Moves

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
AS recently as two weeks ago, many analysts on Wall Street were warning that the Federal Reserve was overly confident that inflation would decline as soon as the economy began to slow.
 ''The Fed has already blown it,'' declared Robert H. Ried, president of the research firm Ried Thunberg ICAP, on Aug. 11. Though more incendiary than those of most other Fed watchers, Mr. Ried's criticisms were echoed by economists as diverse as Martin S. Feldstein of Harvard and Robert J. Gordon of Northwestern.
But 10 days later, when the government reported unexpectedly small jumps in wholesale and consumer prices for July, Mr. Ried and many others felt compelled to eat crow. Mr. Ried wrote that the new numbers ''validated and solidified'' the central bank's decision to pause in raising interest rates and that the Fed had been ''vindicated.''
 Robert D. Novak, the syndicated newspaper columnist, said the Fed's new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, had ''survived his first major test'' and was steering the economy toward ''a soft landing.'' 
 At the Fed's annual retreat here on Friday, Mr. Bernanke said nothing to hint about his policy. But a close look at what Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials have been saying suggests that quickie evaluations reflect a mistaken assumption about how the Fed works.
 When, a few days before the Fed's policy meeting on Aug. 8, the Labor Department reported unexpectedly low job creation for July, investors concluded that the central bank was all but certain to pause its two-year campaign to raise interest rates. It did, but the outcome was nowhere near as certain as investors had thought.
 When the government reported that inflation in July was also unexpectedly low -- but still running well above the central bank's unofficial target rate -- commentators hailed Mr. Bernanke as almost clairvoyant.
 Both those assumptions were at best premature, reflecting a widespread assumption that the most recent economic numbers provide a tip sheet to the Fed's next move.
 Mr. Bernanke has indeed emphasized that the Fed, having mechanically raised the overnight federal funds rate for nearly two years, would increasingly take its cues from incoming economic data. ''It's clear that substantial progress has been made'' in getting rates back to normal, he told House lawmakers in February. As a result, he continued, ''monetary policy will be increasingly dependent on incoming data.''
 By the time Mr. Bernanke took over in February, short-term rates were nearly back in line with theoretical estimates of what rates should be to sustain full employment with low inflation. It was time to chart a course based on the economy itself. 
 That also meant an end to the Fed's practice of telegraphing decisions: pledging to raise rates at a ''pace that is likely to be measured,'' for example. Without those clues, investors naturally jumped on each new piece of economic data to divine the Fed's next move.
 But the Fed rarely changes policy because of one month's worth of data. Mr. Bernanke, like Alan Greenspan before him, developed a broader game plan. Mr. Bernanke's plan is based on the Fed's expectation that the economy was headed for a ''soft landing,'' a slowdown in growth that would be just enough to cool inflation without a big increase in unemployment.
 The game plan may or may not turn out as hoped. But the important point is that the Fed had no ''incoming data'' this spring or this summer to suggest that inflation was actually slowing. 
 An early clue to Fed thinking came in the statement after its policy meeting on May 10, when it raised the federal funds rate a quarter-point, to 5 percent.
 In that statement, the Fed added a subtle nuance to Mr. Bernanke's comments about being ''data dependent.'' It said the need for additional increases ''will depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information.''
 In a shift, the emphasis moved from the incoming data to the Fed's forecast for inflation and growth. The incoming data would be important, not for what it said about inflation at that moment but for any new clues that might change the Fed's outlook for the next six months or year.
 ''We can't do anything about this month's inflation number, because our policy works with a lag,'' Mr. Bernanke said in July at a Senate Banking Committee hearing. ''We have to be looking at a forecast, or the future, to make those judgments and to assess the risks.''
 Unlike most policy meetings, in which members vote unanimously for a decision, the August meeting included a dissenting vote by Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Mr. Lacker wanted another rate increase.
 Michael H. Moskow, president of the Chicago Fed, offered additional evidence of the debate in a speech last Tuesday. ''My assessment is that the risk of inflation remaining too high is greater than the risk of growth being too slow,'' said Mr. Moskow, who was at the August meeting but is not now a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
 ''We need to balance the benefits of gaining new information against the costs of waiting too long,'' Mr. Moskow warned. ''If inflation stays stubbornly high while we wait to see the effects of earlier policy actions, inflation expectations could increase -- and that would be very costly.''
 FED officials note that the underlying inflation trend, as distinct from a specific shock like higher energy prices, is peculiarly hard to predict because of what Mr. Moskow calls ''inflation inertia.'' Companies need time to reassess their ability to pass on higher prices to customers; workers are slow to change their expectations when bargaining for higher wages. 
 ''Inflation inertia is a two-edged sword,'' Mr. Moskow said in a speech in June. If the economy starts to overheat, he said, inertia may mean only a small initial run-up in inflation. But if prices climb consistently faster than people expected, they are more likely to keep rising at a faster clip and be more difficult to slow down.
 Michael Prell, who retired as the Fed's chief forecaster in 2000, compared the Fed's effort to driving in unfamiliar territory and looking for landmarks. The landmarks offer evidence, but not proof, that you are on the right road. 
 It is too early to know whether the Fed is on the right road. While outside analysts have said that the latest inflation data bolstered Mr. Bernanke's case, the chances are that he isn't anywhere near ready to declare his game plan a success.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke has said that the Fed will increasingly take its cues from economic data. (Photo by Joshua Roberts/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WRITERS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006



543 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Easy Being Blue 

 BODY:
The Italians have decided to do the right thing and send enough troops to Lebanon to form the core of a United Nations peacekeeping force, thereby shaming the French into coming along. Italy's top generals are no more enthusiastic than France's. One has publicly warned that the mission could be hamstrung by the United Nations' ''elephantine bureaucracy.'' Historically, he said, U.N.-commanded missions ''have turned out to be failures.'' 
 Bashing the United Nations is fine sport and one that doesn't demand accuracy. But let's be clear about the real dangers. The No. 1 risk going into Lebanon -- whether the peacekeepers wear blue helmets or green -- is thinking that a military solution is even possible.
For all of the tough talk still coming out of Washington and Jerusalem, 15,000 peacekeepers, assuming they ever make it to that number, cannot be expected to disarm Hezbollah. Israel's far larger army failed to do that in a month of bloody fighting. 
 What a U.N. force can do -- with a credible show of weapons and a mandate to shoot -- is make it harder for Hezbollah to attack Israel or restock its arsenal. That should give Israel less of a reason to hit back. But there's no chance this will work unless it is accompanied by an even more robust civilian effort to build up Beirut's central government to a point that it can co-opt or marginalize Hezbollah. 
 This is very high risk. But a study last year by the RAND Corporation (no patsies they) should soothe some of the generals' worries about trying it under the U.N. flag. The United Nations, RAND says, has learned a lot from past failures, including the dangers of being too passive and of overreaching. And when it has been given adequate resources, a core of well-trained troops and a clearly defined mission, it has had notable successes in places like Eastern Slavonia and most recently Liberia. 
 Certainly, U.N. peacekeeping has had an unacceptable share of financial and other scandals. And its bureaucracy is notoriously slow at rallying and deploying forces. But like everything about the United Nations, its peacekeeping operations are only as good as the Security Council requires them to be -- and as good as the forces they can raise. 
 There are too few wealthy countries with advanced militaries willing to send their own. Of the 63,000 troops deployed in 15 U.N. peacekeeping missions, fewer than 2,000 are from NATO countries. 
 Last week, as some Bush administration officials were gleefully recounting the Italian general's insults, Britain and the United States were also calling on the Security Council to send 17,000 peacekeepers to Darfur. 
 Sudan's government is refusing to accept a U.N. force. If it buckles -- and a lot more pressure needs to be applied -- diplomats admit they'd be hard pressed to come up with those numbers. If the big powers want the United Nations to keep the peace, they're going to have to put more of their own troops on the line. They need to do it now in Lebanon, and they need to get ready for Darfur. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (72%) Editorials; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); HEZBOLLAH (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) Security Council (Un); United Nations; Hezbollah

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (56%) LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (90%); SUDAN (79%) Israel; Italy; Lebanon; Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



544 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: The Cultural Crisis in Black America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Triumph of Felons and Failure,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Aug. 24): Mr. Herbert's description of the new book ''Enough,'' by Juan Williams, is excellent. It is about ''the vacuum of leadership and the feverish array of problems that are undermining black Americans,'' and it is timely and exceedingly important. 
 We are all in the midst of a ''cultural illness'' that is ''frequently fatal.'' To call it a ''culture of failure'' among our youth is sadly apt. It is a culture of swagger and insecurity. It is a culture that seems to promote a complete misunderstanding of what it means to be a man or a woman. 
 There are many individuals who work bravely and brilliantly and lovingly each day to remedy this situation and they are surely our greatest heroes. But we have needed courageous and honest and visible leadership for a very long time now. 

Connie Ban
Princeton, N.J., Aug. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert tells the heart-wrenching story of a woman whose family was killed as payback for testimony against a Baltimore drug dealer in 2002. He advocates a cultural shift in a swath of urban, black America, saying ''it is up to blacks themselves'' to ''create a cultural environment that turns its back on crime.''
 Unfortunately, it will be difficult for such change to occur until we rethink our disastrously failed drug war. Under the current policy of prohibition, there is an enormous economic incentive for people to turn to dealing drugs.
 Just as happened during the era of alcohol prohibition, dealers arm themselves and form powerful gangs that infest every corner of our society. Without prohibition, those dealers would be out of business.

Sam Ehrlichman
Ithaca, N.Y., Aug. 25, 2006

To the Editor:
 It took a lot of courage for Bob Herbert to write about black street culture in these days of restrictive political correctness.
 I taught in a district that was predominantly African-American for 22 years. I was determined to foster literacy in our public schools, and I became a reading specialist. What was very disheartening was the predominance of street culture and how it dominated the attitude of too many black children and their parents. 
 Most of the remedial kids I worked with in predominantly black neighborhoods did not value book learning, and neither did their parents. The reading at home required as part of the program was rarely done. Most of these children did learn to read, but they may never catch up to peers whose parents started reading to them in infancy and later made sure that there was homework time. 
 Yes, values make more of a difference than money. My parents didn't get past the sixth grade but they valued books and an education and I am so grateful to them. 

Janet Robinson
Mahopac, N.Y., Aug. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Our media producers cater to thugs, and our government hierarchies let petty urban warlords terrorize and rule. Let a race of men arise, yes, but the responsibility belongs to those producers and leaders who could start something. 
 It is not an absence of ''African-American leadership.'' It is a complex array of national-state-regional-municipal problems that political leaders (and business leaders) refuse to confront.

Stuart Filler
Birmingham, Mich., Aug. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert echoes a familiar call for a ''new generation of African-American leadership.'' While I understand the motivation, I disagree with the conclusion. 
 Must leaders and role models necessarily be drawn strictly on the basis of race? Cannot a Hindu woman or a person of Middle Eastern descent or even a white man act as a leader of a generation of disenfranchised youth? In other words, can the vacuum of leadership not be filled from the rich and diverse fabric of American society and beyond? 
 Until this insular notion that African-Americans -- or any other group, for that matter -- can be led only by people of a particular race, class or religion is overcome, the problems that Mr. Herbert seeks to address will continue to persist. I say indeed, enough is enough.

Kevin P. McNeil
New York, Aug. 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CHILDREN (84%); FELONIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (67%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Blacks; Culture; Urban Areas; Children and Youth; Blacks

PERSON: Bob Herbert; Sam Ehrlichman; Janet (Mahopac, NY) Robinson; Stuart Filler; Kevin P McNeil

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



545 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Three Die in Shootings as Bronx Murder Rate Climbs

BYLINE: By EMILY VASQUEZ; Sarah Garland contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Three fatal shootings in the Bronx early yesterday morning were the latest in about two dozen killings in the borough this summer in a year in which the overall murder rate has climbed, the police said.
 Eighty-eight killings have been reported through Aug. 20 of this year, compared with 75 through the same period a year ago, police statistics show. But this year's numbers are 31.7 percent below the number of killings reported through that date in 2001, and 71.9 percent below the number in 1993.
Including yesterday's fatal shootings, at least 22 Bronx men, all of them from the ages of 15 to 38, have died in shootings or stabbings since the first day of summer in June, according to police reports. 
 The youngest victim yesterday was 16-year-old Anthony Benedith of the Concourse Village neighborhood, the police said. A gunman approached him as he climbed into a cab at about 3:30 a.m. after attending a party on Walton Avenue. 
 Mr. Benedith was shot in the chest, the police said, and the cab driver rushed him to Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, where he died about two hours later. The police could offer few additional details about the shooting yesterday and said they had made no arrests.
 The second shooting involved Marcelino Brillon, 20, who had attended a birthday party with friends Saturday night, according to his mother, Vicky Brillon. When the young men left the party at 1 a.m. yesterday, they were confronted outside by another group of men in what may have been an attempted robbery, Ms. Brillon said she was told by her son's friends.
 The two groups began fighting at the corner of East 184th Street and Bathgate Avenue, the police said, and someone pulled out a gun. Before Mr. Brillon was shot, he shouted that he would give up whatever the men were after, Ms. Brillon said.
 ''He said, 'O.K., you got it!' '' Ms. Brillon said. ''But they shot him anyway.''
 Ms. Brillon, standing at the door of her Bassford Avenue apartment wearing one of her son's shirts and some of the jewelry he was wearing when he was killed, said she was certain her son was unarmed. She said he had taught his younger brother always to walk away from a fight if he could.
 ''He never walked with weapons; I didn't raise him like that,'' she said. ''He would walk away.''
 Mr. Brillon, shot in the torso, died at the scene. A 21-year-old man and another man in his 20's, whom the police did not identify, had been battered about the head. Both were in stable condition at St. Barnabas Hospital yesterday, according to the police.
 The third fatal shooting took place at 5:30 a.m. at the corner of East Kingsbridge Road and Jerome Avenue in Kingsbridge Heights. Gunmen in a passing car fired at Alvin Sandaval, 26, of Grand Avenue in the Bronx, who was shot seven times in the chest and twice in the right arm, the police said. He was pronounced dead at St. Barnabas Hospital.
 His cousin, Brenda Murillo, 34, said she had seen him walking on the sidewalk before the shooting and pulled her car over to talk with him. ''He said, 'There was a fight, I'm about to go home,' '' she told a reporter from her hospital bed at St. Barnabas Hospital. A bullet grazed her ear, and she was shot in the left hand.
 Neighbors standing outside Mr. Sandaval's home said he was the father of two, a working man, known to many in the neighborhood as ''Buddha'' because he carried a few extra pounds.
 ''This is just a typical night out clubbing; he just went to get breakfast,'' said Noemi Quinones, 22, a friend from the block. ''It's always the innocent ones that get it.''
 Nancy Biberman, executive director of the Women's Housing and Economic Corporation on East 168th Street between Gerrard and Walton Avenues, said that she had worked in the area for nearly 20 years and that the area's violence did not parallel what occurred in the borough a decade ago. 
 ''It's important to keep it in context, but the fact is that whatever's happening is happening, and it's not good,'' Ms. Biberman said, adding that unemployment rates in area are extraordinarily high.
 Whatever the cause, the number of killings this year continues to rise across the borough.
 ''There's a lot of guns out there,'' said Al Quinones, 49, who runs a nonprofit in the Hunts Point-Longwood area, which helps support a local park. He said he knew of at least two shootings within blocks of the park this summer. ''People walk around cautious -- not so much fearful, you walk around cautious,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above and left, a van that was near Alvin Sandaval, who was killed in Kingsbridge Heights at 5:30 a.m. yesterday. Far left, Marcelino Brillon, 20, who was killed at 1 a.m. at East 184th Street. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); CRIME RATES (93%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (91%); MURDER (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); STATISTICS (72%); ROBBERY (68%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Children and Youth

PERSON: Emily Vasquez; Sarah Garland; Anthony Benedith; Marcelino Brillon; Alvin Sandaval

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



546 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Buffalo Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: To Burnish Its Image, a City Stages an Alumni Reunion

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
Frustrated by decades of watching friends and family flee New York's second-largest city for warmer climates, healthier economies and sunnier images, a group of Buffalo boosters gave a party this weekend. 
 The idea for the event, Buffalo Old Home Week, which began with an outdoor concert downtown on Thursday and wrapped up with Sunday brunch in the city's largest park, grew from an antique postcard promoting a similar observance in 1907.
''I found the postcard about five years ago and realized that this must have been a really great vehicle to get people back to Buffalo,'' said Newell Nussbaumer, who at the time was running a store specializing in items with a regional theme. 
 This weekend, hundreds of people participated in tours of the city. Some viewed historic buildings along what was known a century ago as Millionaires Row. Others went to Central Terminal, a long-vacant structure, in one of the city's most troubled neighborhoods that is the subject of restoration efforts.
 More to the point, there was also a job fair, at which about 500 job seekers mingled with recruiters from several dozen local companies. 
 One visitor, Kathleen Thompson, said she was looking to return to Buffalo from Charlotte, N.C., after working as a mortgage banker there and in Atlanta for nearly 20 years. 
 ''When I was younger, I wanted to see other places and do other things,'' said Ms. Thompson, who is 46. ''But now that I'm getting older, I want to come home.''
 Ms. Thompson learned about Old Home Week through an intensive Internet marketing campaign waged by organizers, receiving an e-mail invitation after posting her resume online. The event was also promoted on www.buffalorising.com, a Web site Mr. Nussbaumer helped establish, and on several regional blogs, including buffalogeek.com and buffalopundit.com. 
 ''Buffalo has very poor self-esteem,'' said Marti Gorman, one of the organizers, who lived in Bogota, Colombia, as well as in Atlanta and Boulder, Colo., before she moved back to Buffalo last November after her daughter enrolled at Canisius College here. ''There's a disrespect for Buffalo that is unwarranted, and we're out to change that.'' 
 In 1907, Buffalo was the country's eighth-largest city, a booming port connecting the frontier of the West to the cities of the East. The city's reputation suffered because of the assassination of President William McKinley at the Pan-American Exposition here in 1901, though, and civic leaders conjured up Old Home Week as a way to brighten the city's image, Mr. Nussbaumer said.
 If the image problems of a century later lack the singular notoriety of the murder of a president, their roots spread wider and deeper.
 Changes in modes of transportation and the opening of the St. Lawrence Seaway in 1959 rendered Buffalo irrelevant as a Great Lakes port. The steel industry, an anchor of the area's economy, all but vanished during the second half of the 20th century, and thousands of jobs were lost. Population has plummeted, to about half its peak of 580,000 in 1950. 
 Mr. Nussbaumer and others argue that negative perceptions, both locally and nationally, helped prevent the sort of recovery experienced in other Rust Belt cities. Across Lake Erie from here, Cleveland, for example, has attracted corporate headquarters, and visitors to attractions like the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. 
 Buffalo's image grew even dingier after the Blizzard of '77, which effectively shut the city and provided Johnny Carson with weeks of ''Tonight Show'' punch lines. Then there were the four straight Super Bowl defeats of the Buffalo Bills in the early 1990's. 
 ''I was taught to dislike Buffalo and to want to get out,'' Ms. Gorman said. 
 Another organizer of the festivities was Chris Smith, who runs buffalogeek.com. He attended Thursday's concert in a top hat, tails and white gloves, portraying the turn-of-the-century mascot designed for the week. Mr. Smith said he had lived in bigger cities for seven years. 
 ''What those other cities lack is the sense of community you've got here,'' he said. ''There's a sense that everybody is in it together. It's a more solitary life when you live in Boston or Chicago.''
 Mayor Byron Brown, a native of Queens, also said the city's small-town feel drew him in. 
 ''I came here at 17 to attend college and just fell in love with how friendly people are and how easy it is to get around,'' said Mr. Brown, who took office in January. ''I've been here ever since and I've never regretted it.''
 Mr. Nussbaumer acknowledged that Buffalo had the same problems as other urban areas. For example, there were four shootings, including the city's 50th and 51st homicides of the year, over the weekend.
 ''There are sections that are definitely struggling and we have to figure out ways to combat what's happening there,'' he said. ''There's violence in every city, and there are beautiful neighborhoods all over this city. I've lived in Buffalo for 38 years and I've never heard gunfire.''
 Michael A. Tritto Jr., a Buffalo native who teaches theater at a community college in Hyannis, Mass., said the weekend's events had helped ease the doubts of his wife, Virginia Riordan, about moving here; she comes from Bohemia, on Long Island. 
 ''I've been talking about moving back for 16 years,'' said Mr. Tritto, who is 44. ''This weekend helped open her eyes to the opportunities there are for her here.''
 Mr. Tritto, who said he planned to return for good next July, added: ''There's this perception that Buffalo is a great place to grow up, but that you have to go elsewhere to prosper. This city can never be the blue-collar factory town it once was, but there's a real entrepreneurial, forward-looking spirit here.''

 Mike Groll for The New York Times)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A tour on Saturday of Central Terminal, an old Art Deco building, was part of Buffalo Old Home Week. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); ASSASSINATION (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (53%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%) 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

PERSON: David Staba

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (79%) Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



547 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Abducted Journalists Are Freed
Two journalists kidnapped in Gaza were released unharmed after being forced at gunpoint to say on a videotape that they had converted to Islam. A3

Bomber Strikes Iraq Newspaper
A suicide bomber attacked Iraq's largest newspaper, killing 2 people and wounding 20 others, the executive editor and government officials said. The bombing was part of a violent day across Iraq in which at least 52 people were killed, including an American soldier. A6

Sudan Says U.S. Reporter Spied 

The Sudanese government has charged Paul Salopek, a foreign correspondent for The Chicago Tribune and winner of two Pulitzer Prizes, with espionage and entering the country illegally. A3

A Glimpse of Iran's View of U.S.
Some Iranian leaders see the conflict with the United States over its nuclear program as the country's front-line effort to block American influence in the region and to never again allow Washington, which backed the shah's rule, to have an upper hand in Iran. A9

Annan Leaves for Middle East
Kofi Annan, secretary general of the United Nations, starts a tour of the Middle East to press for support of the Security Council resolution that ended the fighting between Israel and Hezbollah and set a path for securing the independence of Lebanon. It is likely to be his last major diplomatic journey. A9

Death Sparks Riots in Pakistan
The death of a prominent rebel tribal leader in Pakistan who was killed in a fierce battle with the Pakistani Army sparked violent protests in the province of Baluchistan and in the city of Karachi. A7

NATIONAL A10-13

Plane Crash Kills 49; Co-Pilot Is Sole Survivor
A passenger jet that mistakenly took off from a Lexington, Ky., airport on too short a runway crashed into a woody field, killing all but one person aboard, federal aviation officials said. A1

The crash of the flight, Comair 5191, could complicate the efforts of the regional carrier's parent company, Delta Air Lines, to emerge from bankruptcy. A11

A Year Later, Katrina's Legacy
Two competing images will help tell the tale when it is time to write the legacy of George W. Bush: the image of Mr. Bush after Sept. 11, feet planted in the rubble of the Twin Towers, bullhorn in hand; and the image of the president aboard Air Force One, peering out the window at the wreckage of Hurricane Katrina thousands of feet below. A1

On the eve of Hurricane Katrina's first anniversary, New Orleans has become a giant political talking point. A12

Wages Flat as Economy Grows
With gasoline prices still high and the economy beginning to slow, the current expansion has a chance to become the first sustained period of economic growth since World War II that fails to offer an increase in real wages for most workers. A1

Rumsfeld Calls for Missile Tests
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said that while the fledgling United States ballistic missile defense system was becoming more capable, he wanted to see a successful full-scale test before declaring it able to shoot down a ballistic missile. A10

California Fights Hemp Ban
Seven states have passed bills supporting the farming of industrial hemp, but California is the first state that may directly challenge the federal ban. A1

Two Sets of Plans for Shuttle
Space shuttle crews were working on competing objectives as they made preparations for a possible launching while planning to roll the Atlantis back into its hanger to ride out Tropical Storm Ernesto. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

One Firefighter Killed, Four Injured in Bronx Blaze
A month after graduating from the New York City Fire Academy, a 25-year-old firefighter was killed and four of his colleagues were seriously injured when they crashed through the collapsing floor of a burning 99-cent store in the Bronx, the authorities said. A1

The Making of a Religion
A filmmaker has offered a musician $5,000 to start his own religion, with a film crew tracking his efforts. The unusual experiment, intended to examine a serious set of questions about how religious movements begin and take hold, centers on one thought: Every religion started somewhere, with someone. B1

Music as Medicine
For two hours each day, a harpist strolls through a New Jersey hospital's post-surgical unit as part of a four-week study, one of several nationwide, measuring the health benefits of music in hospitals. Researchers suspect that soothing arpeggios might help to regulate heart rate, blood pressure and breathing. B1

Buffalo Boosts Its Image
Frustrated by decades of watching friends and family flee New York's second largest city for warmer climates, healthier economies and sunnier images, a group of Buffalo boosters have revived Buffalo Old Home Week, a century-old tour of historic buildings around the troubled town. B4

ARTS E1-8

Top Emmy Awards for '24'
''24,'' the thriller that debuted in 2001, won three Emmy Awards, including best drama, at the 58th annual ceremony, which honored both new and recently departed shows. ''The Office,'' a comedy on NBC, took the Emmy for best comedy series. E1

What Peter Pan Is Up to Now
On Oct. 5, Simon & Schuster, with great fanfare and much promotion, is planning to publish ''Peter Pan in Scarlet,'' the first ''officially sanctioned'' sequel to J. M. Barrie's childhood classic. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

The Fed and Global Trends
As the Federal Reserve fiercely debates how to reduce inflation within the United States, economists are warning that trends outside the country may soon make the Fed's job much harder. C1

Measuring a Star's Worth
If you ask economists who study the movie industry, the decision by Sumner M. Redstone, chairman of Viacom, to let Tom Cruise go after a 14-year relationship was a financially sound one. C1

High-Tech Fugitive
An Israeli private detective's account of a sighting of Jacob Alexander, the fugitive former head of Comverse Technology, has only deepened the mystery surrounding Mr. Alexander's whereabouts. C1

Impact of Italian Bank Deal
A deal over the weekend to create the largest bank in Italy could pave the way for more cross-border consolidation in the industry, bankers and analysts said. C2

Poised for Cellphone Growth
The country's biggest cellular providers appear poised to win many of the 1,122 radio spectrum licenses up for auction, allowing them to expand and reducing the chance that a new entrant might bring down prices. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: It's not easy being blue; a fixation with secrecy; the safer cigarette delusion; Adam Cohen on the rise of pessimism.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Bridge E4
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
Obituaries B7
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); AIRLINES (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ESPIONAGE (70%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (68%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); HURRICANES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PARENT COMPANIES (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (68%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SUDAN (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



548 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Sidon Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Wake of War Idles Lebanon's Fleet, and Its Fishermen

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: SIDON, Lebanon, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
Every morning, the fishermen gather at a grimy outdoor cafe overlooking the docks of this ancient port town. It is the height of the fishing season, but their boats sit at the water's edge like abandoned cars, rusting.
 ''We have been sitting here for 50 days,'' said Muhammad Ibrahim Bauji, a gaunt 64-year-old, as he stared out at the cool blue-green waves of the Mediterranean. ''I am living on borrowed money.'' 
The war here may be over, but Israel's blockade of Lebanese waters goes on, and its most direct victims are fishermen. They have been unable to put their boats out since the conflict began July 12. 
 The fishermen depend on their summer earnings to sustain them through the slow winter, and the blockade has left them at the brink of destitution. Their nets sit in piles on the stone piers, beneath carpets meant to protect them from the sun.
 For now, Sidon's 600 fishermen are living mostly on handouts from the town and nonprofit groups. The fishermen say the aid is not enough to feed their families. The situation is the same, or worse, for the thousands of fishermen who work along the coast, from Naqoura, in the south, to Tripoli, in the north. Some have been reduced to begging. 
 Israel says it cannot lift the blockade until peacekeeping troops ensure that Lebanese ports are not used to import weapons for Hezbollah, the Shiite militia that battled Israel for more than a month.
 Sitting in plastic chairs, drinking tea and smoking, a group of fishermen said they felt forgotten. Across Lebanon, bulldozers are cleaning up rubble, and Hezbollah is giving $12,000 to each family whose home was destroyed in the war. There is no equivalent, the men said, for what may be the region's oldest trade. 
 ''No one is helping us, not Hezbollah, not the government, not the Prophet Muhammad, not Jesus,'' said Ahmad Deeb Tayeen, 76, the white-haired president of the town fishermen's union. ''These men cannot continue like this.'' 
 On Friday, Mr. Tayeen said, he appealed to Lebanese Army officials to let the fishermen go out. He was told it was too dangerous.
 Israel has blockaded Lebanese waters in previous conflicts, but never for so long, Mr. Tayeen said. In 1996, after a full blockade that lasted two months, the Lebanese government negotiated a deal that allowed the fishermen to fish if they stayed close to shore, for the next year. The government, under Rafiq Hariri, then the prime minister, also provided all the country's fishermen with a monthly stipend during the crisis.
 This time there has been no such largess. Fouad Siniora, the current prime minister, appealed Wednesday to the United States for help in getting Israel to lift the blockade, without success.
 Even if the blockade were lifted, the fishermen are unlikely to earn much this year. Fish prices have dropped, because of the loss of tourists and widespread fear that oil spills have contaminated the fish. 
 Mr. Bauji led a reporter through the winding streets of old Sidon to his home, up a flight of worn stone steps. 
 Inside, 10 people share a crowded space, with two bedrooms and a single sitting room. After greeting the visitors, Mr. Bauji's wife sat down on a carpet to grind garlic with a mortar and pestle. Pictures of their two sons, also fishermen, and several grandchildren adorned a cupboard. 
 ''We don't have enough,'' Mr. Bauji said, opening a refrigerator. It was empty except for a can of processed chicken donated by the International Red Cross. Still, he invited a visitor to join the family for lunch, saying his wife would cook the chicken. 
 About a quarter of the fishermen here are Palestinians, who generally live in grinding poverty in refugee camps. Under Lebanese law, they are not allowed to own more than 49 percent of a fishing boat, or even to join fishermen's unions, so they are even more vulnerable than many others who fish for a living. 
 ''We are living on credit,'' said Yusef Shawki Taher, 61, a deeply tanned, distinguished-looking fisherman who lives down the coast in Tyre, in the Bas refugee camp. ''School is starting soon, but we cannot send our children because there is no money. If anyone needs a doctor, we can't afford it.''
 Two of Mr. Taher's seven children are fishermen who work with him; the others depend on his meager earnings to get by. 
 Sitting in his living room, Mr. Taher pointed to a black-and-white photograph of his grandfather, in a suit and tie. He was a judge in Haifa before the family fled north in 1948 when Israel was created. As a younger son, he had few career options, and he took up fishing at 16. 
 ''Yesterday we blew up inner tubes and put nets in them and floated them out from shore,'' he said, in halting English. ''Five men, and we sold our fish for 50,000 Lebanese pounds, 10,000 each.'' That is a bit less than $7. 
 He paused, then smiled. ''Enough to buy some cigarettes,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fishermen in Sidon, unable to use their boats because of an Israeli blockade, use nets to catch smaller fish, which they can sell for a few dollars. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)Map of Lebanon highlighting Sidon: Sidon's 600 fishermen have been subsisting on loans and handouts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); FAMILY (71%); PEACEKEEPING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%) Hezbollah

PERSON: FOUAD SINIORA (54%) Robert F Worth

GEOGRAPHIC: LEBANON (96%); ISRAEL (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Lebanon; Sidon (Lebanon); Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



549 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3084 words

HEADLINE: In Tapes, Receipts and a Diary, Details of the British Terror Case

BYLINE: This article was reported and written by Don Van Natta Jr., Elaine Sciolino and Stephen Grey.; Reporting for this article was contributed by William J. Broad from New York, Carlotta Gall from Pakistan, David Johnston and Mark Mazzetti from Washington.

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
"Residents of the United Kingdom are requested not to read, download or disseminate this article. This request arises from British laws that prohibit publication of information that could be deemed prejudicial to defendants charged with a crime." 

On Aug. 9, in a small second-floor apartment in East London, two young Muslim men recorded a video justifying what the police say was their suicide plot to blow up trans-Atlantic planes: revenge against the United States and its ''accomplices,'' Britain and the Jews.
''As you bomb, you will be bombed; as you kill, you will be killed,'' said one of the men on a ''martyrdom'' videotape, whose contents were described by a senior British official and a person briefed about the case. The young man added that he hoped God would be ''pleased with us and accepts our deed.''
 As it happened, the police had been monitoring the apartment with hidden video and audio equipment. Not long after the tape was recorded that day, Scotland Yard decided to shut down what they suspected was a terrorist cell. That action set off a chain of events that raised the terror threat levels in Britain and the United States, barred passengers from taking liquids on airplanes and plunged air traffic into chaos around the world. 
 The ominous language of seven recovered martyrdom videotapes is among new details that emerged from interviews with high-ranking British, European and American officials last week, demonstrating that the suspects had made considerable progress toward planning a terrorist attack. Those details include fresh evidence from Britain's most wideranging terror investigation: receipts for cash transfers from abroad, a handwritten diary that appears to sketch out elements of a plot, and, on martyrdom tapes, several suspects' statements of their motives.
 But at the same time, five senior British officials said, the suspects were not prepared to strike immediately. Instead, the reactions of Britain and the United States in the wake of the arrests of 21 people on Aug. 10 were driven less by information about a specific, imminent attack than fear that other, unknown terrorists might strike.
 The suspects had been working for months out of an apartment that investigators called the ''bomb factory,'' where the police watched as the suspects experimented with chemicals, according to British officials and others briefed on the evidence, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, citing British rules on confidentiality regarding criminal prosecutions.
 In searches during raids, the police discovered what they said were the necessary components to make a highly volatile liquid explosive known as HMTD, jihadist materials, receipts of Western Union money transfers, seven martyrdom videos made by six suspects and the last will and testament of a would-be bomber, senior British officials said. One of the suspects said on his martyrdom video that the ''war against Muslims'' in Iraq and Afghanistan had motivated him to act.
 Investigators say they believe that one of the leaders of the group, an unemployed man in his 20's who was living in a modest apartment on government benefits, kept the key to the alleged ''bomb factory'' and helped others record martyrdom videos, the officials said.
 Hours after the police arrested the 21 suspects, police and government officials in both countries said they had intended to carry out the deadliest terrorist attack since Sept. 11.
 Later that day, Paul Stephenson, deputy chief of the Metropolitan Police in London, said the goal of the people suspected of plotting the attack was ''mass murder on an unimaginable scale.'' On the day of the arrests, some officials estimated that as many as 10 planes were to be blown up, possibly over American cities. Michael Chertoff, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, described the suspected plot as ''getting really quite close to the execution stage.''
 But British officials said the suspects still had a lot of work to do. Two of the suspects did not have passports, but had applied for expedited approval. One official said the people suspected of leading the plot were still recruiting and radicalizing would-be bombers.
 While investigators found evidence on a computer memory stick indicating that one of the men had looked up airline schedules for flights from London to cities in the United States, the suspects had neither made reservations nor purchased plane tickets, a British official said. Some of their suspected bomb-making equipment was found five days after the arrests in a suitcase buried under leaves in the woods near High Wycombe, a town 30 miles northwest of London.
 Another British official stressed that martyrdom videos were often made well in advance of an attack. In fact, two and a half weeks since the inquiry became public, British investigators have still not determined whether there was a target date for the attacks or how many planes were to be involved. They say the estimate of 10 planes was speculative and exaggerated.
 In his first public statement after the arrests, Peter Clarke, chief of counterterrorism for the Metropolitan Police, acknowledged that the police were still investigating the basics: ''the number, destination and timing of the flights that might be attacked.''
 A total of 25 people have been arrested in connection with the suspected plot. Twelve of them have been charged. Eight people were charged with conspiracy to commit murder and preparing acts of terrorism. Three people were charged with failing to disclose information that could help prevent a terrorist act, and a 17-year-old male suspect was charged with possession of articles that could be used to prepare a terrorist act. Eight people still in custody have not been charged. Five have been released. All the suspects arrested are British citizens ranging in age from 17 to 35.
 Despite the charges, officials said they were still unsure of one critical question: whether any of the suspects was technically capable of assembling and detonating liquid explosives while airborne.
 A chemist involved in that part of the inquiry, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was sworn to confidentiality, said HMTD, which can be prepared by combining hydrogen peroxide with other chemicals, ''in theory is dangerous,'' but whether the suspects ''had the brights to pull it off remains to be seen.''
 While officials and experts familiar with the case say the investigation points to a serious and determined group of plotters, they add that questions about the immediacy and difficulty of the suspected bombing plot cast doubt on the accuracy of some of the public statements made at the time.
 ''In retrospect,'' said Michael A. Sheehan, the former deputy commissioner of counterterrorism in the New York Police Department, ''there may have been too much hyperventilating going on.''
 Some of the suspects came to the attention of Scotland Yard more than a year ago, shortly after four suicide bombers attacked three subway trains and a double-decker bus in London on July 7, 2005, a coordinated attack that killed 56 people and wounded more than 700. The investigation was dubbed ''Operation Overt.''

The Police Are Tipped Off
 The police were apparently tipped off by informers. One former British counterterrorism official, who was working for the government at the time, said several people living in Walthamstow, a working-class neighborhood in East London, alerted the police in July 2005 about the intentions of a small group of angry young Muslim men.
 Walthamstow is best known for its faded greyhound track and the borough of Waltham Forest, where more than 17,000 Pakistani immigrants live in the largest Pakistani enclave in London.
 Armed with the tips, MI5, Britain's domestic security services, began an around-the-clock surveillance operation of a dozen young men living in Walthamstow -- bugging their apartments, tapping their phones, monitoring their bank transactions, eavesdropping on their Internet traffic and e-mail messages, even watching where they traveled, shopped and took their laundry, according to senior British officials.
 The initial focus of the investigation was not about possible terrorism aboard planes, but an effort to see whether there were any links between the dozen men and the July 7 subway bombers, or terrorist cells in Pakistan, the officials said.
 The authorities quickly learned the identity of the man believed to have been the leader of the cell, the unemployed man in his mid-20's, who traveled at least twice within the past year to Pakistan, where his activities are still being investigated.
 Last June, a 22-year-old Walthamstow resident, who is among the suspects arrested Aug. 10, paid $260,000 cash for a second-floor apartment in a house on Forest Road, according to official property records. The authorities noticed that six men were regularly visiting the secondfloor apartment that came to be known as the ''bomb factory,'' according to a British official and the person briefed about the case.
 Two of the men, who were likely the bomb-makers, were conducting a series of experiments with chemicals, said the person briefed on the case.
 MI5 agents secretly installed video and audio recording equipment inside the apartment, two senior British officials said. In a secret search conducted before the Aug. 10 raids, agents had discovered that the inside of batteries had been scooped out, and that it appeared several suspects were doing chemical experiments with a sports drink named Lucozade and syringes, the person with knowledge of the case said. Investigators have said they believe that the suspects intended to bring explosive chemicals aboard planes inside sports drink bottles.
 In that apartment, according to a British official, one of the leaders and a man in his late 20's met at least twice to discuss the suspected plot, as MI5 agents secretly watched and listened. On Aug. 9, just hours before the police raids occurred in 50 locations from East London to Birmingham, the two men met again to discuss the suspected plot and record a martyrdom video.
 As one of the men read from a script before a videocamera, he recited a quotation from the Koran and ticked off his reasons for the ''action that I am going to undertake,'' according to the person briefed on the case. The man said he was seeking revenge for the foreign policy of the United States, and ''their accomplices, the U.K. and the Jews.'' The man said he wanted to show that the enemies of Islam would never win this ''war.''
 Beseeching other Muslims to join jihad, he justified the killing of innocent civilians in America and other Western countries because they supported the war against Muslims through their tax dollars. They were too busy enjoying their Western lifestyles to protest the policies, he added. Though British officials usually release little information about continuing investigations, Scotland Yard took the unusual step of disclosing some detailed information about the investigation last Monday, when the suspects were charged.

A Trove of Evidence
 ''There have been 69 searches,'' Mr. Clarke, the chief antiterrorist police official from Scotland Yard, said Monday. ''These have been in houses, flats and business premises, vehicles and open spaces.''
 Investigators also seized more than 400 computers, 200 mobile phones and 8,000 items like memory sticks, CD's and DVD's. ''The scale is immense,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''Inquiries will span the globe.''
 He said those searches revealed a trove of evidence, and officials and others last week provided additional details.
 Four of the law firms that are defending suspects declined to comment.
 When police officers knocked down the door to the second-floor apartment on Forest Road, they found a plastic bin filled with liquid, batteries, nearly a dozen empty drink bottles, rubber gloves, digital scales and a disposable camera that was leaking liquid, the person with knowledge of the case said. The camera might have been a prototype for a device to smuggle chemicals on the plane.
 In the pocket of one of the suspects, the police found the computer memory stick that showed he had looked up airline schedules for flights from London to the United States, a British official said. The man is said to have had a diary that included a list that the police interpreted as a step-by-step plan for an attack. The items included batteries and Lucozade bottles. It also included a reminder to select a date.
 In the homes of a number of the suspects, the police found jihadist literature and DVD's about ''genocide'' in Iraq and Palestine, according to British officials. In one house searched by the police in Walthamstow, the authorities found a copy of a book called ''Defense of the Muslim Lands.''
 A ''last will and testament'' for one of the accused was said to have been found at his brother's home. Dated Sept. 24, 2005, the will concludes, ''What should I worry when I die a Muslim, in the manner in which I am to die, I go to my death for the sake of my maker.'' God, he added, can if he wants ''bless limbs torn away!!!''

Looking for Global Ties
 In addition, the British authorities are scouring the evidence for clues to whether there is a global dimension to the suspected plot, particularly the extent to which it was planned, financed or supported in Pakistan, and whether there is a connection to remnants of Al Qaeda. They are still trying to determine who provided the cash for the apartment and the computer equipment and telephones, officials said.
 Several of the suspects had traveled to Pakistan within weeks of the arrests, according to an American counterterrorism official.
 At a minimum, investigators say at least one of the suspects' inspiration was drawn from Al Qaeda. One of the suspects' ''kill-as-they-kill'' martyrdom video was taken from a November 2002 fatwa by Osama bin Laden.
 British officials said many of the questions about the suspected plot remained unanswered because they were forced to make the arrests before Scotland Yard was ready.
 The trigger was the arrest in Pakistan of Rashid Rauf, a 25-year-old British citizen with dual Pakistani citizenship, whom Pakistani investigators have described as a ''key figure'' in the plot.
 In 2000, Mr. Rauf's father founded Crescent Relief London, a charity that sent money to victims of last October's earthquake in Pakistan. Several suspects met through their involvement in the charity, a friend of one of them said. Last week, Britain froze the charity's bank accounts and opened an investigation into possible ''terrorist abuse of charitable funds.'' Leaders of the charity have denied the allegations.
 Several senior British officials said the Pakistanis arrested Rashid Rauf without informing them first. The arrest surprised and frustrated investigators here who had wanted to monitor the suspects longer, primarily to gather more evidence and to determine whether they had identified all the people involved in the suspected plot.
 But within hours of Mr. Rauf's arrest on Aug. 9 in Pakistan, British officials heard from intelligence sources that someone connected to him had tried to contact some of the suspects in East London. The message was interpreted by investigators as a possible signal to move forward with the plot, officials said.
 ''The plotters received a very short message to 'Go now,' '' said Franco Frattini, the European Union's security commissioner, who was briefed by the British home secretary, John Reid, in London. ''I was convinced by British authorities that this message exists.''
 A senior British official said the message from Pakistan was not that explicit. But, nonetheless, investigators here had to change their strategy quickly.
 ''The aim was to keep this operation going for much longer,'' said a senior British security official who requested anonymity because of confidentiality rules. ''It ended much sooner than we had hoped.''
 From then on, the British government was driven by worst-case scenarios based on a minimum-risk strategy.
 British investigators worried that word of Mr. Rauf's arrest could push the London suspects to destroy evidence and to disperse, raising the possibility they would not be able to arrest them all. But investigators also could not rule out that there could be an unknown second cell that would try to carry out a similar plan, officials said.
 Mr. Clarke, as the country's top antiterrorism police official in London with authority over police decisions, ordered the arrests.
 But it was left to Mr. Reid, who has been home secretary since May and is a former defense secretary, to decide at emergency meetings of police, national security and transport leaders, what else needed to be done. Mr. Reid and Mr. Clarke declined repeated requests for interviews.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair was on vacation in Barbados, where he was said to have monitored events in London; Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott did not attend the meeting.
 ''While the arrests were unfolding, the Home Office raised Britain's terror alert level to ''critical,'' as the police continued their raids of suspects' homes and cars. All liquids were banned from carry-on bags, and some public officials in Britain and the United States said an attack appeared to be imminent. In addition to Mr. Stephenson's remark that the attack would have been ''mass murder on an unimaginable scale,'' Mr. Reid said that attacks were ''highly likely'' and predicted that the loss of life would have been on an ''unprecedented scale.''
 Two weeks later, senior officials here characterized the remarks as unfortunate. As more information was analyzed and the British government decided that the attack was not imminent, Mr. Reid sought to calm the country by backing off from his dire predictions, while defending the decision to raise the alert level to its highest level as a precaution.
 In lowering the threat level from critical to severe on Aug. 14, Mr. Reid acknowledged: ''Threat level assessments are intelligence-led. It is not a process where scientific precision is possible. They involve judgments.''

Publication of this article on nytimes.com has been delayed temporarily on the advice of legal counsel. It is also being omitted from the British circulation of The International Herald Tribune. This arises from British laws that prohibit publication of information that could be deemed prejudicial to defendants charged with a crime.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Reid, Britain's home secretary, took questions on Aug. 10 in London during a news conference about the suspected plot by terrorists to blow up passenger planes flying from Britain to the United States. (Photo by Dylan Martinez/Reuters)
 Pakistanis walking past the house of Rashid Rauf in Bahawalpur, Pakistan. His arrest in Pakistan prompted raids in London. (Photo by Arif Ali/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); EXPLOSIVES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); WIRE TRANSFERS (63%) 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Homeland Security Department; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: Don Jr Van Natta; Elaine Sciolino; S00269000 Grey; William J Broad; Carlotta Gall; David Johnston; Mark Mazzetti; Chertof00269400el (Sec)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) Great Britain; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



550 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Google to Offer Services for Businesses

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
Further extending its efforts beyond search technology, Google plans to announce Monday that it will offer software providing a range of online services for business users. 
 The company, which has gradually been adding to its arsenal of services, says it will offer a package of software including its e-mail, calendar and chat programs and a Web site development tool for companies and organizations looking to avoid the high cost of providing such services on their own. 
Dave Girouard, vice president and general manager of Google's enterprise business, called the move a ''starting point'' for Google in catering to business users. 
 Initially, the package will be free, but later this year Google plans to begin selling a version that includes additional features as well as technical support. 
 While the e-mail program, Gmail, is currently supported by online advertising, the other three programs contain no advertising. Mr. Girouard said Google's immediate goal in offering the free services was to increase the number of people and companies using its technology.
 Mr. Girouard said he expected the pay service to appeal to larger organizations. He would not discuss any plans for pricing.
 Google's software offerings beyond search are focused on communications and enabling workers to collaborate, but the company is testing spreadsheet software and a word-processing program called Writely that will soon be offered over the Web. 
 When that happens, analysts say, the company will be in even more direct competition with the likes of Microsoft, which is moving to deliver more of its software to businesses over the Web. A number of smaller software companies already offer calendars, e-mail and other applications online. 
 ''I think it's going to put Google head-to-head with Microsoft, especially when it comes to price-sensitive markets like small business and education,'' said Matthew Brown, an analyst at Forrester Research in Boston.
 For small and medium-size businesses, the new Google services, called Google Apps for Your Domain, could produce huge savings in technology support costs, he said. 
 As Google encroaches on the business software territory that Microsoft has traditionally dominated, Microsoft has responded by adding online Web services to its desktop software and beefing up its Web offerings, particularly in search services. Last year, Microsoft announced Office Live, a Web service aimed at helping businesses collaborate on spreadsheets and other documents.
 While each of the Google services has already been available to consumers, the package for businesses is aimed specifically at organizations that want to offer them in turn to their employees. Companies can use Google's Gmail program, for example, to set up a corporate e-mail system with software for both the server computer and individual users.
 Providing technology to corporations and large organizations accounts for less than 2 percent of Google's revenue, but the business is increasingly critical, Mr. Girouard said. Most of that involves selling ''server appliances,'' large computers that take on the job of conducting searches of large databases and company records.
 ''We are a very small part of Google's overall business, but we're growing quickly,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (89%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); NETWORK SERVERS (60%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (56%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Electronic Mail; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Laurie Flynn

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



551 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: REAL WAGES FAIL TO MATCH A RISE IN PRODUCTIVITY

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
With the economy beginning to slow, the current expansion has a chance to become the first sustained period of economic growth since World War II that fails to offer a prolonged increase in real wages for most workers.
 That situation is adding to fears among Republicans that the economy will hurt vulnerable incumbents in this year's midterm elections even though overall growth has been healthy for much of the last five years.
The median hourly wage for American workers has declined 2 percent since 2003, after factoring in inflation. The drop has been especially notable, economists say, because productivity -- the amount that an average worker produces in an hour and the basic wellspring of a nation's living standards -- has risen steadily over the same period.
 As a result, wages and salaries now make up the lowest share of the nation's gross domestic product since the government began recording the data in 1947, while corporate profits have climbed to their highest share since the 1960's. UBS, the investment bank, recently described the current period as ''the golden era of profitability.'' 
 Until the last year, stagnating wages were somewhat offset by the rising value of benefits, especially health insurance, which caused overall compensation for most Americans to continue increasing. Since last summer, however, the value of workers' benefits has also failed to keep pace with inflation, according to government data. 
 At the very top of the income spectrum, many workers have continued to receive raises that outpace inflation, and the gains have been large enough to keep average income and consumer spending rising. 
 In a speech on Friday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, did not specifically discuss wages, but he warned that the unequal distribution of the economy's spoils could derail the trade liberalization of recent decades. Because recent economic changes ''threaten the livelihoods of some workers and the profits of some firms,'' Mr. Bernanke said, policy makers must try ''to ensure that the benefits of global economic integration are sufficiently widely shared.''
 Political analysts are divided over how much the wage trends will help Democrats this fall in their effort to take control of the House and, in a bigger stretch, the Senate. Some see parallels to watershed political years like 1980, 1992 and 1994, when wage growth fell behind inflation, party alignments shifted and dozens of incumbents were thrown out of office. 
 ''It's a dangerous time for any party to have control of the federal government -- the presidency, the Senate and the House,'' said Charles Cook, who publishes a nonpartisan political newsletter. ''It all feeds into 'it's a time for a change' sentiment. It's a highly combustible mixture.'' 
 But others say that war in Iraq and terrorism, not the economy, will dominate the campaign and that Democrats have yet to offer an economic vision that appeals to voters. 
 ''National economic policies are more clearly in focus in presidential campaigns,'' said Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's consumer surveys. ''When you're electing your local House members, you don't debate that on those issues as much.''
 Moreover, polls show that Americans are less dissatisfied with the economy than they were in the early 1980's or early 90's. Rising house and stock values have lifted the net worth of many families over the last few years, and interest rates remain fairly low. 
 But polls show that Americans disapprove of President Bush's handling of the economy by wide margins and that anxiety about the future is growing. Earlier this month, the University of Michigan reported that consumer confidence had fallen sharply in recent months, with people's expectations for the future now as downbeat as they were in 1992 and 1993, when the job market had not yet recovered from a recession. 
 ''Some people who aren't partisans say, 'Yes, the economy's pretty good, so why are people so agitated and anxious?' '' said Frank Luntz, a Republican campaign consultant. ''The answer is they don't feel it in their weekly paychecks.'' 
 But Mr. Luntz predicted that the economic mood would not do significant damage to Republicans this fall because voters blamed corporate America, not the government, for their problems. 
 Economists offer various reasons for the stagnation of wages. Although the economy continues to add jobs, global trade, immigration, layoffs and technology -- as well as the insecurity caused by them -- appear to have eroded workers' bargaining power.
 Trade unions are much weaker than they once were, while the buying power of the minimum wage is at a 50-year low. And health care is far more expensive than it was a decade ago, causing companies to spend more on benefits at the expense of wages. 
 Together, these forces have caused a growing share of the economy to go to companies instead of workers' paychecks. In the first quarter of 2006, wages and salaries represented 45 percent of gross domestic product, down from almost 50 percent in the first quarter of 2001 and a record 53.6 percent in the first quarter of 1970, according to the Commerce Department. Each percentage point now equals about $132 billion.
 Total employee compensation -- wages plus benefits -- has fared a little better. Its share was briefly lower than its current level of 56.1 percent in the mid-1990's and otherwise has not been so low since 1966. 
 Over the last year, the value of employee benefits has risen only 3.4 percent, while inflation has exceeded 4 percent, according to the Labor Department.
 In Europe and Japan, the profit share of economic output is also at or near record levels, noted Larry Hatheway, chief economist for UBS Investment Bank, who said that this highlighted the pressures of globalization on wages. Many Americans, be they apparel workers or software programmers, are facing more comptition from China and India.
 In another recent report on the boom in profits, economists at Goldman Sachs wrote, ''The most important contributor to higher profit margins over the past five years has been a decline in labor's share of national income.'' Low interest rates and the moderate cost of capital goods, like computers, have also played a role, though economists note that an economic slowdown could hurt profits in coming months.
 For most of the last century, wages and productivity -- the key measure of the economy's efficiency -- have risen together, increasing rapidly through the 1950's and 60's and far more slowly in the 1970's and 80's.
 But in recent years, the productivity gains have continued while the pay increases have not kept up. Worker productivity rose 16.6 percent from 2000 to 2005, while total compensation for the median worker rose 7.2 percent, according to Labor Department statistics analyzed by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group. Benefits accounted for most of the increase. 
 ''If I had to sum it up,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the institute, ''it comes down to bargaining power and the lack of ability of many in the work force to claim their fair share of growth.''
 Nominal wages have accelerated in the last year, but the spike in oil costs has eaten up the gains. Now the job market appears to be weakening, after a protracted series of interest-rate increases by the Federal Reserve. 
 Unless these trends reverse, the current expansion may lack even an extended period of modest wage growth like one that occurred in the mid-1980's. 
 The most recent recession ended in late 2001. Hourly wages continuedto rise in 2002 and peaked in early 2003, largely on the lingering strength of the 1990's boom.
 Average family income, adjusted for inflation, has continued to advance at a good clip, a fact Mr. Bush has cited when speaking about the economy. But these gains are a result mainly of increases at the top of the income spectrum that pull up the overall numbers. Even for workers at the 90th percentile of earners -- making about $80,000 a year -- inflation has outpaced their pay increases over the last three years, according to the Labor Department.
 ''There are two economies out there,'' Mr. Cook, the political analyst, said. ''One has been just white hot, going great guns. Those are the people who have benefited from globalization, technology, greater productivity and higher corporate earnings.
 ''And then there's the working stiffs,'' he added, ''who just don't feel like they're getting ahead despite the fact that they're working very hard. And there are a lot more people in that group than the other group.''
 In 2004, the top 1 percent of earners -- a group that includes many chief executives -- received 11.2 percent of all wage income, up from 8.7 percent a decade earlier and less than 6 percent three decades ago, according to Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty, economists who analyzed the tax data.
 With the midterm campaign expected to heat up after Labor Day, Democrats are saying that they will help workers by making health care more affordable and lifting the minimum wage. Democrats have criticized Republicans for passing tax cuts mainly benefiting high-income families at a time when most families are failing to keep up. 
 Republicans counter that the tax cuts passed during Mr. Bush's first term helped lifted the economy out of recession. Unless the cuts are extended, a move many Democrats oppose, the economy will suffer, and so will wages, Republicans say.
 But in a sign that Republicans may be growing concerned about the public's mood, the new Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., adopted a somewhat different tone from Mr. Bush in his first major speech, delivered early this month.
 ''Many aren't seeing significant increases in their take-home pay,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''Their increases in wages are being eaten up by high energy prices and rising health care costs, among others.''
 At the same time, he said that the Bush administration was not responsible for the situation, pointing out that inequality had been increasing for many years. ''It is neither fair nor useful,'' Mr. Paulson said, ''to blame any political party.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Not Sharing in the Gains''While corporate profits have improved sharply in the last few years and the economy has become far more productive, the take-home pay of the typical worker has failed to keep up with inflation.Employee Compensation and Corporate Profits as Share of G.D.P.Quarterly figures
shaded areas show recessionsWages are at their lowest share of G.D.P. on record.: 45.3%Corporate profits are at their highest share since the 1960's.: 10.3%Graph tracks wage and salary, overall compensation, and corporate profits before taxes since 1947.Median Hourly PayAdjusted for InflationWage and Salary Workers, 18 to 65CHANGE FROM PREVIOUS YEARGraph tracks median hourly pay adjusted for Inflation for wage and salary Workers, 18 to 65 since 1975.Worker Productivity Nonfarm BusinessCHANGE FROM PREVIOUS YEARGraph tracks worker productivity for nonfarm business since 1975.(Sources by Department of Commerce [share of G.D.P.]
National Bureau of Economic Research [recessions]
Economic Policy Institute [hourly wage]
 Bureau of Labor Statistics [productivity])(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TERRORISM (50%) United States Economy; Labor; Productivity; Wages and Salaries; Elections; Fringe Benefits; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%) Steven Greenhouse; David Leonhardt; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



552 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: A Year After Katrina Disaster, Bush Still Fights for 9/11 Image

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
When the nation records the legacy of George W. Bush, 43rd president and self-described compassionate conservative, two competing images will help tell the tale.
 The first is of Mr. Bush after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, bullhorn in hand, feet planted firmly in the rubble of the twin towers. The second is of him aboard Air Force One, on his way from Crawford, Tex., to Washington, peering out the window at the wreckage of Hurricane Katrina thousands of feet below.
If the bungled federal response to Hurricane Katrina called into question the president's competence, that Air Force One snapshot, coupled with wrenching scenes on the ground of victims who were largely poor and black, called into question something equally important to Mr. Bush: his compassion. 
 A year later, he has yet to recover on either front. 
 Mr. Bush has prodded Congress to approve tens of billions of dollars for rebuilding and victim assistance, delivered a much-publicized fence-mending speech to the N.A.A.C.P. and made repeated trips to the Gulf Coast, where he plans to observe the anniversary of the storm Monday and Tuesday. Yet his public persona remains that of wartime president -- the man standing in the Manhattan rubble -- flying by as desperate and vulnerable Americans suffered.
 His approval ratings have never rebounded from their post-hurricane plummet. A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted this month found that 51 percent of those surveyed disapproved of the way Mr. Bush had responded to the needs of hurricane victims, a figure statistically no different from last September, when 48 percent disapproved.
 ''This is a real black mark on his administration, and it's going to stay with him for a long time,'' said James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University. ''It will be in every textbook.''
 The White House says it has allocated $110 billion toward rebuilding and victim assistance; of that, $44 billion has been spent. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided more than $6 billion directly to nearly 950,000 victims for temporary housing, the most money ever provided by the agency for a single natural disaster.
 But Mr. Bush is not getting much credit. The poll found Americans critical about the pace of recovery and lacking full confidence in the government. Thirty-nine percent described themselves as dissatisfied with progress in the region, and an additional 11 percent said they were angry. Fifty-six percent had a great deal or a fair amount of confidence in the government's ability to respond to another natural disaster; 44 percent had little or no confidence at all.
 The storm is generating a powerful undercurrent in this year's midterm elections as well, as Democrats invoke it as a catchphrase for what they regard as mismanagement on a number of issues, including the war in Iraq and the economy. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who runs the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said his candidates mentioned the storm at every turn.
 ''I might argue that this was the worst thing that's happened to George Bush in the whole six years of his presidency,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''It was a perception-altering event. People had questioned his ideology. People had even questioned his intelligence. But before this, average people rarely questioned his competence or his caring.''
 One year later, Democrats are not the only ones raising questions. In follow-up interviews to the Times/CBS News poll, Republicans and independents also expressed lingering doubts about Mr. Bush, using language suggesting that their memories of the storm and his handling of it remained fresh and deep.
 ''Bush did nothing for the people,'' said one Republican, Joseph Ippolito, 75, a retired highway superintendent from Bayville, N.J. ''Bush didn't have the proper people in office to take care of Katrina. The whole administration is wacky -- and I voted twice for him.''
 White House officials and leading Republicans, while defending the president's record, are not surprised by the anger.
 Dan Bartlett, counselor to the president, said the White House was well aware that New Orleans residents ''are skeptical about our commitment,'' and that many Americans blamed Mr. Bush for their fellow citizens' suffering. But Mr. Bartlett said the president would ultimately be judged on how the Gulf Coast was rebuilt and how the government handled the next crisis -- a theme echoed by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, the chairwoman of the Senate committee charged with overseeing the recovery.
 ''If we have another devastating hurricane and the response is markedly more efficient, more compassionate,'' Ms. Collins said, ''then I think people will say, 'Well, they learned.' ''
 But the senator said the damage to the president's image would be difficult to undo.
 ''Unfortunately, it may be hard to erase the regrettable photo of him on Air Force One looking down at the destruction and devastation below,'' she said. ''That's a searing and very unfortunate image that doesn't reflect the president's compassion.''
 When Mr. Bush stood last September in Jackson Square, in the darkened city of New Orleans, and declared that Americans had ''a duty to confront this poverty with bold action,'' religious and civil rights leaders saw it as a hopeful turning point. Suddenly, a president who had defined himself as the lead prosecutor in the war on terror was turning his attention to jobs, housing and education for the poor, in language that evoked memories of the 1960's.
 Today, those same leaders are discouraged and critical.
 ''Here was an opportunity for a new conversation on race and class and poverty, and they blew it,'' said the Rev. Eugene F. Rivers III, a Bush supporter who runs a coalition that represents mainly black churches. ''It's not even just President Bush. Here was an opportunity for Republicans and conservatives in general to make a moral and intellectual case for a positive policy agenda for the black poor, and they did not advance it.''
 Yet the mayor of New Orleans, C. Ray Nagin, who had been critical of the president, publicly praised him in his re-election victory speech in May, thanking Mr. Bush for ''delivering for the citizens of New Orleans.''
 Others who have worked with the president on the recovery, including prominent Democrats like Senator Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana and Donna Brazile, a political strategist who spent 2000 trying to defeat Mr. Bush as campaign manager for Vice President Al Gore, say they do not doubt his sincerity or commitment. 
 Ms. Brazile, a New Orleans native who serves on a state recovery task force, describes the president as ''very much engaged'' and praises him for prodding Congress to spend more money on levee rebuilding. 
 ''I said to him, 'You'll be a hero if you commit to rebuilding those levees,' '' she said, recounting their first meeting last December. ''I have to give him credit. Two weeks later, we got the additional money.''
 But Ms. Landrieu calls the administration ''slow and reluctant.'' She sees Mr. Bush as being distracted by the war in Iraq and says he has fallen short on the one task he cannot delegate: using the power of the presidency to grab the nation's attention. 
 ''I understand that there have been many distractions and many important priorities for the nation -- the war in Iraq, the unrest in the Mideast -- but the president has not maintained the bully pulpit on Katrina,'' she said, adding, ''He does it so intermittently, I wonder if we are on his mind.''
 Some members of the public wonder as well.
 ''I find that the concentration of the president is on the Middle East crisis and not on what's at home,'' said Carlton DeCosta, a 33-year-old Navy veteran from Patchogue, N.Y., who said he considered himself an independent, in a follow-up interview to the Times/CBS News poll. ''When the president addresses the country it has nothing to do with Katrina, nothing to do with the rebuilding.''
 But Mary Lou Ackley, a 69-year-old homemaker from Elmira, N.Y., who said she voted Republican, said state and local agencies bore responsibility for the pace of rebuilding. ''I don't think the president sits there and does the pencil work,'' Ms. Ackley said, adding, ''He's got a lot more to do than just direct Louisiana and their hurricanes.''
 As the midterm elections approach, analysts say dissatisfaction with the administration's handling of the hurricane could prompt the Republican faithful to stay home. 
 Professor Thurber, the American University scholar, says the competence issue will be central to history's assessment of the president. Mr. Bartlett, the White House counselor, predicts historians will soften their criticism ''if people see a better and more vibrant Gulf Coast emerge from this tragedy.'' 
 With the rebuilding expected to continue long after Mr. Bush leaves office, Senator Landrieu says he still has a chance.
 ''I think there's an opportunity for him to make this a real legacy of his presidency,'' she said. ''There's still time to have people say he did a good job and he rose to the occasion. He's writing the story himself.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush surveying hurricane damage last August from aboard Air Force One, an image a Republican senator called ''regrettable.'' (Photo by Mannie Garcia/Reuters)
 Mr. Bush at ground zero in 2001. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Public Opinion; Katrina (Storm); New York Times/cbs News Poll; Blacks; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Megan Thee; Marina Stefan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); United States

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



553 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: An Ex-Official Offers Glimpse of Iranian Views of U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
A former high-ranking Iranian official wants Americans to see his cracked thumbnails. They were torn out, he said, after Washington's friend, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, put him in prison in the 1970's.
 His point is instantly clear: look at what happened when we had close ties to the United States.
''I was a medical student,'' said the man, Ali Muhammad Besharati, a former interior minister and deputy foreign minister. ''But they put me in prison because I opposed American dominance in Iran.'' 
 In the continuing conflict over Iran's nuclear program, there are disputes over enrichment of uranium, discussions of heavy water reactors, and accusations over the government's intentions. But to listen to Dr. Besharati is to hear the fight described as Tehran's frontline effort to block American influence in the region and to never again allow Washington to have an upper hand in Iran.
 That attitude is obvious among Iran's current leaders, who see this not just as a battle over nuclear weapons but a fight for survival against a far more powerful enemy that has lumped them into an ''axis of evil'' and allocated millions of dollars to oust the government, political analysts and Western diplomats here said.
 Dr. Besharati, too, echoed the idea that giving in on the nuclear front would not solve Iran's problems with Washington, only aggravate them. 
 ''I would like you to write this down,'' he said, speaking through an interpreter. ''If we backed down on the nuclear issue, the U.S. would have found fault with our medical doctors researching stem cells.''
 He smiled, sat back and let his point settle. ''What they would like to see us do is plant corn, make tomato paste and bottle mineral water,'' he added. ''They do not want to see us get high-tech.'' 
 His comments, during a 90-minute interview in his office, seem to reflect both a calculated political posture and a sincere hostility, and fear, toward Washington.
 Dr. Besharati, 57, works from an office in the Strategic Studies Center, a tower in the leafy northern section of Tehran that serves as an influential research organization for many of Iran's policy makers. He is not a member of the inner circle of power now, though he has a personal relationship with Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and as interior minister he appointed the current president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, as a governor. 
 But his thinking reflects the spirit of a leadership that has given no indication that it is willing to halt enrichment or slow its nuclear march. In the imprecise language of Iran's political divisions, Mr. Besharati would be considered a moderate-conservative.
 Asked whether Iran is afraid that greater economic, political and social integration with the West might dilute the country's Islamic identity, he turned the question around. ''Can the West be more flexible and accept us as we are?'' he asked.
 He was born in Jahrem, near Shiraz, and as a young man was an Islamic political advocate. The shah imprisoned him for five years, and it was the feared Savak secret police that tore out his fingernails, he said.
 After the revolution, he won important positions in government. He served in Parliament, for a decade as the No. 2 official in the Foreign Ministry, and as interior minister from 1993 to 1997. He was in charge of the election process the years that Mohammad Khatami, the change-minded cleric, surprised the conservative leadership and won a landslide victory as president.
 In many ways he is the model of an Iranian official, both in his bearing and in his stated positions. He wears sharp Western-style suits and a scruffy beard. 
 He travels with an armed guard and speaks the language of what might be called peaceful defiance: blaming the White House for American-Iranian problems while insisting Tehran wants nothing more than to live in peaceful harmony with the world. He does not answer when asked why for nearly two decades Iran kept its nuclear program a secret, in violation of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 ''Let me tell you a story,'' he said, adjusting the ring on his right hand. ''In one of the story books, Iranians have a fairy tale. A hawk is talking to a chicken in the farmyard. The hawk says to the chicken, 'You are not very loyal. They feed you, but when they want to catch you, you run away.' ''
 He paused for effect. ''The chicken said, 'If you saw what was going on in the kitchen and the frying pan, you would not just hop from branch to branch, but fly away.' ''
 He smiled, rose from his chair and pulled three hardcover books off a shelf. He said they were memoirs of relatives of the former shah. ''The shah of Iran never drank water without the permission of America,'' he said he read in one of the books.
 He opened one book, whose text was marked up, with important passages circled. ''What was the result of all our confidence in the U.S.?'' he asked forcefully. ''Our agriculture was demolished. Our educational system was destroyed.''
 True or not, balanced or biased, he was rolling, passionate and animated as he stated his understanding of Iran's history and its relationship with the United States. He grabbed another book and said, paraphrasing, ''All the interrogators in the secret police were trained in the United States and Israel.'' Pause. ''Five of my fingernails were peeled out in interrogation.''
 Dr. Besharati recounted every modern American offense against Iran, from the shooting down of the Iranian airliner that killed more than 200 civilians, to officials of the Reagan administration calling for pulling the theocracy out by the roots. All this, he seemed to be saying, was why Iran would not give in to America's demands on something as consequential as the nuclear program. 
 ''Although our economic system may not be strong,'' he said, ''our minds and our memories are.'' 

Iranian Tests Sub-Fired Missile
 TEHRAN, Aug. 27 (AP) -- Iran test-fired a new submarine-to-surface missile during war games in the Persian Gulf on Sunday, a show of military might amid a standoff with the West over its nuclear activities.
 A brief videotape showed the long-range missile, the Thaqeb, or Saturn, leaving the water and hitting a target on the water's surface within less than a mile. The test was part of large military exercises that began Aug. 19.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Muhammad Besharati, leaning back, a former interior minister and deputy foreign minister, with Intelligence Minister Ali Younesi last year. (Photo by Hasan Sarbakhshian/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); POLITICS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (63%); BOTTLED WATER MFG (62%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Public Opinion

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%) Ali Muhammad (Dr) Besharati; Michael Slackman; Muhammad Reza (1919-80) Pahlavi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (90%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



554 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: A Big Star May Not a Profitable Movie Make

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Is Sumner M. Redstone crazy like a fox?
 Movie industry executives may be forgiven for thinking that the Viacom chairman was mad to let Tom Cruise go after a 14-year relationship simply because Mr. Cruise seemed a little off balance. After all, the movies made by Viacom's Paramount Pictures studio and the actor's production company earned more than $2.5 billion at the box office.
Yet, if you ask economists and other academics that study the movie industry, Mr. Redstone's decision was, in financial terms, spot on. The best reason to get rid of Mr. Cruise or, for that matter, Mel Gibson, or Lindsay Lohan, is not their occasional aberrant behavior. They, like most marquee names in Hollywood, are simply not worth the expense. 
 ''Who knows what went through Mr. Redstone's mind?'' said Jehoshua Eliashberg, a professor of marketing, operations and information management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''But one can't discard that the reason is that it doesn't make economic sense to pay him all this money.'' 
 Mr. Eliashberg is part of a growing cadre of academics studying how movies are made, financed and distributed. Most are finding that the studio's assumption that big stars will increase a movie's bottom line is simply wrong. 
 ''There is no statistical correlation between stars and success,'' said S. Abraham Ravid, a professor of economics and finance at Rutgers University, who, in a 1999 study of almost 200 films released between 1991 and 1993, found that once one considered other factors influencing the success of a film, a star had no impact on its rate of return. Employing a star had virtually no discernible impact on the box office itself. Mr. Cruise would no doubt object to that assertion. And to be fair, there is some theoretical pedigree to the idea that he may be worth every penny. In fact, there is a whole branch of economics that aims to explain how talented people generate so much more money than competitors who are only slightly less good. It's called ''superstar economics.''
 Superstar economics, which has been used to explain the astonishing fees of top lawyers and the skyrocketing pay of star chief executives, dates back to the insight in the late 19th century of the British economist Alfred Marshall, who observed that ''the relative fall in the incomes to be earned by moderate ability is accentuated by the rise in those that are obtained by many men of extraordinary ability.'' 
 The dynamic was explained by a University of Chicago economist, Sherwin Rosen, in a 1981 paper entitled ''Superstar Economics.'' Mr. Rosen posited that improvements in technology that would make it easier for top performers in a field to serve a larger market would not only increase the revenue generated by stars, but would also reduce the revenue available to everybody else.
 Take the National Basketball Association. Michael Jordan pulled in millions of dollars in the 1980's and 1990's because basketball fans from San Francisco to Milwaukee would tune in to Chicago Bulls games on TV to watch him play. In the absence of Mr. Jordan, those fans would probably have been watching the game of the Milwaukee Bucks or the Golden State Warriors instead. 
 In a study about ticket prices for concerts, the Princeton economist Alan B. Krueger found that between 1983 and 2003, a period in which MTV, Napster, the iPod and other technologies extended the reach of top acts, the share of concert revenue taken by the top 5 percent of artists increased to 84 percent, from 62 percent. 
 Hollywood, where the star system was invented, is not wholly dependent on celebrities: the list of biggest-grossing movies in history is dominated by movies like ''Shrek 2,'' ''ET: The Extra-Terrestrial'' and the ''Star Wars'' series, which were not star-driven. But the industry still places an enormous importance on superstar power based on a straightforward fact: On average, movies that have big names starring in them make more money at the box office than movies that do not.
 Movie industry specialists argue that, in the complicated world of Hollywood economics, stars bring many different kinds of benefits. They are easier to market, they help sell more tickets at home and overseas and they help drive home-video sales, which are a bigger and bigger slice of studio revenue. ''If the stars' job is to increase output, by drawing crowds into the theaters or selling DVD's, it is not working as well as it had worked in the past,'' said Harold L. Vogel, author of a book called ''Entertainment Industry Economics: A Guide for Financial Analysis.'' But, he added: ''This is a hiatus. We have gone through 25 years where new distribution for films -- videocassettes, cable and DVD's -- added new revenue potential. That meant less resistance to stars' salary demands.'' 
 Even studio chiefs will acknowledge that a star does not guarantee success. ''Bewitched,'' starring Nicole Kidman, cost an estimated $85 million and had taken in only about $62 million at the American box office by late 2005. Yet there is a bedrock belief that the winning formula consists of the right star in the right movie. 
 ''If you pay a star a great deal of money for a film that people don't want to see, then it won't work,'' said Sidney Sheinberg, the former president of MCA Universal. ''It is always a question of whether you are dealing with a project that is enhanced by a star or are you dealing with a project where you are looking for the star to make it happen, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't.''
 Anita Elberse, an associate professor at the Harvard Business School, tried to measure the average effect of a star by analyzing casting announcements on the price of stocks on the Hollywood Exchange (www.hsx.com), a simulated market where hundreds of thousands of users trade stocks in individual movies based on their expected box-office revenue. Prices on this exchange have been found to be fairly good predictors of a film's box-office success. 
 Ms. Elberse found, for instance, that the announcement in 2002 that Mr. Cruise had dropped out of ''Cold Mountain'' -- he had been expected to play the lead -- reduced the movie's expected gross by $10 million. The announcement that Mr. Cruise was in talks to play a leading role in ''The Last Samurai'' lifted the movie's expected gross by $28 million. 
 Combing through 12,000 casting announcements between November of 2001 and December of 2004, related to 600 movie stars and 500 movies, Ms. Elberse found stars, on average, were worth $3 million in theatrical revenue. 
 Still, Ms. Elberse and other academics suspect that the box-office power of movie stars might be somewhat of a mirage. Ms. Elberse found that, even when casting announcements had an impact on the expected financial outcome of a given film, they had no discernible effect on the share price of the media companies that owned the movie studio -- indicating that the participation of a star had no impact on the expected profitability of the studio.
 Moreover, even if a star-studded movie does well, it does not necessarily mean that the stars are causing higher ticket sales. In fact, it seems to move the other way around: stars select what they believe are promising projects. And studios prefer to put stars in movies that they expect to be a success.
 ''Movies with stars are successful not because of the star, but because the star chooses projects that people tend to like,'' said Arthur S. De Vany, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of California, Irvine, who has written extensively about the economics of moviemaking. ''It's a movie that makes a star.''
 In other words, while a person will go to a Bruce Springsteen concert because the artist is, indeed, Bruce Springsteen, the success of ''The Matrix'' had to do with many things other than its star, Keanu Reeves.
 ''Movie industry executives keep this perception that stardom is a formula for success, but they don't measure it,'' Mr. Eliashberg said. ''They resist using analytical methods for all sorts of reasons, from being uncomfortable with numbers to the argument that this is a creative industry and not a business.''
 Mr. De Vany and other economists point out that many factors contribute to the success of a movie -- like a big budget, having a G or PG rating, opening on a large number of screens and whether it is a sequel, among others. 
 In one study, Mr. De Vany and W. David Walls, an economist at the University of Calgary, took those factors into account. Looking across a sample of more than 2,000 movies exhibited between 1985 and 1996, they found that only seven actors and actresses -- Tom Hanks, Michelle Pfeiffer, Sandra Bullock, Jodie Foster, Jim Carrey, Barbra Streisand and Robin Williams -- had a positive impact on the box office, mostly in the first few weeks of a film's release. 
 In the same study, two directors, Steven Spielberg and Oliver Stone also pushed up a movie's revenue. But Winona Ryder, Sharon Stone and Val Kilmer were associated with a smaller box-office revenue. No other star had any statistically significant impact at all. So what are stars for? By helping a movie open -- attracting lots of people in to see a movie in the first few days before the buzz about whether it's good or bad is widely known -- stars can set a floor for revenues, said Mr. De Vany. 
 ''Stars help to launch a film. They are meant as signals to create a big opening,'' he said. ''But they can't make a film have legs.''
 Mr. Ravid, the Rutgers professor, suggests that stars serve as insurance for executives who fear they could be fired for green-lighting a flop. ''If they hire Julia Roberts and the film flops, they can say 'Well, who knew?' '' said Mr. Ravid.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Pine, left, with Lindsay Lohan in ''Just My Luck,'' which reportedly cost $28 million and grossed about $17 million. (Photo by Barry Wetcher/20th Century Fox)
Brad Pitt in ''The Assassination of Jesse James'' for '07
it reportedly cost $30 million. (Photo by Kimberly French/Warner Brothers Pictures)(pg. C5)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FILM (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LAWYERS (50%) Motion Pictures; Celebrities; Actors and Actresses; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (90%); TOM CRUISE (90%); LINDSAY LOHAN (73%); BRAD PITT (58%) Eduardo Porter; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



555 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

THE FED AND GLOBAL FORCES -- As the Federal Reserve fiercely debates how to reduce inflation within the United States, economists are warning that trends outside the country will soon make the Fed's job much harder. [Page C1.] 


TRACKING A HIGH-TECH FUGITIVE -- An Israeli private detective's account of a sighting of Jacob Alexander, the fugitive former head of Comverse Technology, has only deepened the mystery surrounding Mr. Alexander's whereabouts. [C1.]

CRUISE MOVE -- Some in the movie industry have questioned the decision by Sumner M. Redstone, chairman of Viacom, to let Tom Cruise go after a 14-year relationship. After all, the movies made by Viacom's Paramount studio and the actor's production company have earned more than $2.5 billion at the box office. Yet if you ask economists and other academics that study the movie industry, Mr. Redstone's decision was, in financial terms, spot on. [C1.]

COLLEGIATE WEB EFFORTS -- Sears Holdings is among the retailers putting extra effort this year into attracting college students online. With a new Web site, Sears is hoping to take advantage of an untapped market, said Lorna Sargent, above, director of e-commerce content. Visitors to the site are greeted with background music ranging from retro rock to contemporary metal, and a screen that includes idea lists and articles and videos about surviving freshman year. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C7.]

PREPARING FOR DISASTER -- Teams from the Pentagon, nongovernmental agencies and several dozen technology companies participated in a five-day simulation of a national disaster meant to showcase and test a new set of digital tools. [C1.]

US WEEKLY IN RUSSIA -- American capitalism's latest export to its former communist adversaries is celebrity gossip. Us Weekly is starting a Russian edition. Making its debut Sept. 4, it will appear in Moscow and St. Petersburg and across the former Soviet map. Readers from Azerbaijan to Uzbekistan, as well as the Baltics, will be able to follow Tom Cruise's career and the latest on Brad and Angelina. [C5.]

FIGURES ON FORBES -- Forbes.com, in promoting the popularity of its site as a source for business news, has noted in advertising that its sites drew about 15 million unique visitors in a single month earlier this year. But a closer look at the numbers raises questions about Forbes.com's industry-leading claims. [C1.]

GOOGLE'S BUSINESS SERVICES -- Further extending its efforts beyond search technology, Google plans to announce that it will offer software providing a range of online services for business users. [C6.]

CELLPHONES AND SPECTRUM -- The country's biggest cellular providers appear poised to win many of the 1,122 radio spectrum licenses that are up for auction, allowing them to expand their reach and reducing the chance that a new entrant might bring down prices in the mobile-phone industry. [C4.]

TAKING NOTE OF KATRINA -- The anniversary of Hurricane Katrina is being marked this week with a spate of advertising, public relations and promotional campaigns on television, in print and online. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TRENDS (89%); CELEBRITIES (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); WEB SITES (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); DISASTER PLANNING (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MUSIC (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); VIACOM INC (57%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (55%); FORBES INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (75%); SUMNER REDSTONE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); AZERBAIJAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



556 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 398 words

 BODY:

JOBS, CARS AND MORE -- Friday is the big day for economic data, but Thursday is not far behind. The headline number of the week will be unemployment for August, with a predicted addition of 113,000 nonfarm payroll jobs. (Friday.) There will also be auto sales for August, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for August, construction spending for July and the mid-August University of Michigan consumer sentiment index. (Friday.) Before that, reports will provide statistics on personal income and spending for July, factory orders for July, the Chicago purchasing managers index for July and August chain-store sales. (Thursday.) 


MORE METRICS -- The Federal Open Market Committee, the rate-setting arm of the Federal Reserve, will release its minutes from Aug. 8, and the Conference Board will issue its consumer confidence index for August. (Tuesday.) The first revision of second-quarter gross domestic product figures will be released. (Wednesday.)

SWEET HOME, SOUTH CAROLINA -- In what is being billed as his first public appearance in his home state since he became Federal Reserve chairman in February, Ben S. Bernanke will talk about economic productivity and receive various honors (including the Order of the Palmetto) during two days of festivities. He will be featured at an event in Greenville, S.C., sponsored by Clemson University's leadership development program (Thursday), and then return to his hometown of Dillon, S.C. (population 6,300) for Ben Bernanke Day (Friday).

WHERE THERE'S SMOKE -- The Altria Group, the cigarette manufacturer, has been expected to spin off its Kraft Foods division for some time, but the transaction has been held up by tobacco litigation. A ruling this month has cleared the way, however, and the company's board will meet and may make an announcement about Kraft, whose Oreo cookies and macaroni-and-cheese products tend to generate less controversy than, say, the Marlboros made by Altria's Philip Morris unit. (Wednesday.)

SMATTERING OF EARNINGS -- It will be a light week for company reports. Among the ones reporting will be JDS Uniphase and TiVo (Wednesday), followed by H& R Block, Del Monte Foods, Dollar General, H. J. Heinz and Tiffany & Company. (Thursday).

EARLY CLOSE -- The bond market will close at 2 p.m. on Friday ahead of the Labor Day holiday on Monday. No changes are scheduled Friday in stock market hours.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD MFG (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%); BONDS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); CHEESE (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (63%); LITIGATION (62%); US LABOR DAY (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); TIFFANY & CO (62%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (52%); H & R BLOCK INC (52%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (51%); H J HEINZ CO (51%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); CLEMSON UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (83%); TIF (NYSE) (62%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (53%); JDU (TSX) (52%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (52%); HRB (NYSE) (52%); DG (NYSE) (51%); HNZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (83%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (62%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (62%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (62%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (51%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (51%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (51%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (51%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (70%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



557 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Global Trends May Hinder Effort to Curb U.S. Inflation

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 27 

 BODY:
As the Federal Reserve fiercely debates how to reduce inflation within the United States, economists are warning that trends outside the country may soon make the Fed's job much harder.
 In recent years, global integration has made things easier for the Fed in two ways. An explosion in low-cost exports from China and other countries helped keep prices of many products low even as Americans spent heavily and loaded up on debt.
 At the same time, China and other relatively poor nations reversed the normal patterns of global investment by becoming net lenders to the United States and Europe. Analysts estimate that this ''uphill'' flow of money from poor nations to rich ones may have reduced long-term interest rates in the United States by 1.5 percentage points in recent years -- a big difference when home mortgage rates are about 6 percent.
 But as Fed officials held their annual retreat this weekend here in the Grand Tetons, a growing number of economists warned that those benign international trends could abate or even reverse. 
 For one thing, they said, China's explosive rise as a low-cost manufacturer does not mean that prices will fall year after year. Indeed, China's voracious appetite for oil and raw materials has aggravated inflation by driving up global prices for oil and many commodities. 
 Beyond that, new research presented this weekend suggested that the United States could not count on a continuation of cheap money from poor countries. Those flows could stop as soon as countries find ways to spend their excess savings at home. 
 ''Medium- and long-term interest rates are set outside of the country,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard University and a former director of research at the International Monetary Fund. ''It's very important to think about what to do if the winds of globalization change.''
 The warnings come as the Fed's new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, faces widespread skepticism among economists about his forecast for a ''soft landing'' -- a mild slowdown that will tame inflation without costing many jobs. 
 Inflation is already running above Mr. Bernanke's unofficial target -- 2 percent a year, excluding energy and food prices -- and few analysts here say they believe the Fed will raise rates and slow growth enough to bring inflation down to its target anytime soon.
 ''They are in a box, and they know it,'' said John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute and a hedge fund manger. ''It's an awkward position for them to be in.''
 Economists presenting papers at the Fed retreat said that the central bank may be hindered as global trends that have kept inflation and interest rates lower than they would otherwise be turn less favorable. 
 The biggest change could be an increased reluctance by foreign investors to finance the United States' huge trade gap, now more than $700 billion a year.
 ''What happens if foreign investors decide they don't want to accumulate American assets any more?'' asked Martin S. Feldstein, economics professor at Harvard and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research. 
 ''Something has to change to make the debt more attractive -- an increase in interest rates in the U.S. or a decline in the exchange rate of the dollar,'' he continued. ''In the short term, the Fed will face slowing output growth, possible with higher inflation.'' 
 For the moment, bond investors appear to accept the Fed's view that inflation will remain low. Long-term interest rates have actually edged down slightly since the Fed decided on Aug. 8 not to raise overnight rates. 
 But economists, including some leading bond investors, predict that inflation will creep higher even if oil prices stop climbing.
 ''The consensus among people here is that the Fed's real target is not 2 percent but about 2.5 percent,'' said David Hale, an economic forecaster in Chicago. Looking ahead 12 months, if Fed members do not make progress bringing inflation down, ''it's going to call into question their credibility,'' he said.
 Members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, appear torn. In a sign of uncertainty this weekend, Mr. Bernanke and all other senior Fed policymakers were unusually tight-lipped about any of the issues -- wage trends, the ability of companies to pass higher costs on to customers, or the plunge in home sales -- that are at top of their agenda.
 Mr. Bernanke has been arguing that inflation will cool as annual economic growth slows to 2.5 percent, from about 3.5 percent. 
 But some Fed officials, worried that inflation pressures are becoming more entrenched, want to take tougher action. Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, voted against the pause in rate increases.
 Michael H. Moskow, president of the Chicago Fed, strongly suggested last week that he favored higher rates and declared that the risks of higher inflation were greater than the risks of an unexpectedly sharp slowdown. Mr. Moskow is not currently a voting member of the policy committee, which rotates the regional bank presidents, but he participated in the debates. 
 Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, said the Fed's focus on core inflation understated the challenges posed by international shifts. The focus, he said, includes the price-lowering impact of China's expansion but excludes the impact of higher oil prices. ''They've included the part that makes things look better and thrown out the part that makes things look worse,'' he said.
 Officially, the Federal Reserve does not set explicit targets for inflation. But Mr. Bernanke, a longtime champion of inflation targets, has said that his own definition of price stability is to keep core inflation between 1 percent and 2 percent a year.
 The Fed's job is not made any easier by the upcoming midterm elections, in which Republicans are struggling to keep from losing control of both the House and Senate.
 The Fed has two policy meetings, in late September and late October, before the November elections. The central bank often likes to avoid any interest rate changes immediately before an election, for fear that it will be accused of interfering on behalf of one party or another. 
 Regardless of what Mr. Bernanke does in the next few months, economists at the conference here said that globalization and the United States' growing foreign debt could make his job more difficult.
 Raghuram G. Rajan, the International Monetary Fund's current head of research, presented new research to explain why many poorer countries are now net lenders to rich countries -- and why they might change course. He argued that fast-growing poor countries relied less on foreign capital than many nations, and that they saved much more than they invested. 
 One example is Chile, the most prosperous country in Latin America. Thanks to soaring copper prices in recent years, Chile has paid off its government debt and is running a budget surplus equal to about 7 percent of its gross domestic product. Chilean leaders are putting the surplus into a long-term stability fund, part of which is invested in foreign securities, that will be used to maintain full government operations if copper prices plummet. 
 Mr. Rajan said many countries might not have a way to channel their excess savings because their banking systems were too underdeveloped. If so, the savings rates of those countries may decline as people become more accustomed to rising incomes and as banks find ways to rechannel savings into consumer and business loans. 
 Even though capital is flowing uphill to rich countries like the United States right now, Mr. Rajan said, ''it doesn't mean these flows are optimal, safe or permanent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); MOUNTAINS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Interest Rates; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%) Ben S Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



558 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Sports Desk; U.S. OPEN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Federer and Nadal Prepare for Rubber Match 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
Roger Federer won the last round convincingly, on grass that looked more like dirt at Wimbledon. But as the final Grand Slam tournament of the year begins today, Rafael Nadal is the one who still holds the convincing 6-2 lead in a fast-evolving tennis rivalry that is cranking out new chapters at a pulp novelist's pace.
 As if that were not enough, Nadal also has the better view from his Midtown hotel room.
 Only a few blocks separate the five-star establishments housing the game's two leading men during the United States Open. Nadal's digs are on Central Park, and the picture window in his suite looks out from a great height over the verdant inland sea of the park, bordered by some of the highest-rent peaks in real estate. Federer and his longtime girlfriend, Mirka Vavrinec, are farther south, in an elegant if less spectacular corner suite that looks out on Fifth Avenue facades instead of treetops. 
 But Federer is still No. 1 in the rankings by an economy-sized margin, and still the two-time defending champion at the Open. And last week, both he and Nadal were willing to throw open the doors and reopen the now-familiar discussion on the state of their games and rivalry ahead of the tournament that should serve as this season's Grand Slam tie breaker. The two are weary of the topic, but each recognizes that it is unavoidable in the bipolar world of their own making.
 ''I think this rivalry is a beautiful thing for tennis,'' Nadal said. ''It's not negative or hostile. It's about the tennis.''
 Because of a broken bone in his left foot, Nadal missed the Australian Open in January, which Federer won. But since then, the two have taken turns pushing the other around. Nadal dominated the clay-court season, running his victory streak on the surface to 60 matches by beating Federer in four sets in the French Open final. Federer then dominated the shorter grass-court season, running his victory streak on the surface to 48 matches by beating Nadal in four sets in the Wimbledon final.
 Now comes a chance to crunch more numbers (and opponents) as the outdoor hardcourt season peaks. The general tennis public understandably expects to see Federer and Nadal in the Open final on Sept. 10. But tennis history is against another rematch, and not just because neither is riding a winning streak.
 Since the Open era's debut in 1968, no men have faced each other in three Grand Slam singles finals in the same year. But the superiority of their tennis is clear, and it has been nearly two years since anyone not named Federer or Nadal has won a Grand Slam singles title.
 ''I guess the chances are there that it happens again,'' Federer said of another final with Nadal. ''It didn't happen in Toronto and Cincinnati, where we both played, and right away you see how difficult it is. It's in a way good that it didn't happen, because it reminds people'' of that difficulty.
 There is a chance they could meet in New York, because their draws are easier than at Wimbledon or at some other recent tournaments, Federer said. ''But I don't like to think of a final yet,'' he said, ''because it's just too long and there's too much tennis to be played.''
 Federer certainly plans to be here for the long haul. The hotel room to which he welcomed a reporter Thursday morning was the portrait of order after he pushed the breakfast cart out the door.
 Eleven of his rackets were lined up side by side in near-perfect symmetry, with their pristine white grips leaning against a fireplace. On the desk were a laptop and a portable printer. Equipment bags were neatly stacked with the day's tennis clothes folded in a plastic sack. A butler would not have looked out of place.
 ''Mirka helps me out, you know,'' he said. ''I like it tidy anyway. I used to be so untidy. I like it this way, especially here, where I'm going to be here for hopefully three weeks or so.''
 The state of the room fits Federer's on-court persona. He is slick and polished between the lines. Unlike the sleeveless-shirted Nadal, he does not seem to relish the idea of opponents seeing him sweat. Both men wear bandannas, come from close families and control the flow of play with their high-kicking forehands and world-class athleticism. But the commonalities mostly end there.
 Nadal is the lefty with the two-handed backhand, Federer the righty with the one-hander. Nadal likes to roam well beyond the baseline, even if his coach, his uncle Toni Nadal, would like him to push forward. Federer toes the line and catches the ball earlier.
 Federer glides; Nadal hustles. Federer is elegant. Nadal is a motion machine who lunges or slashes or employs any other action verb available to keep the rally going.
 It was how he overcame a big deficit in the fifth set in the final in Rome in May: a five-hour thriller that both consider the best match they have played against each other. It was also the only match in which there were signs of animosity. Federer accused Toni Nadal of illegally coaching Rafael from the players' box and asked him to stop. Both Nadals later denied the claim, saying that Toni was merely cheering for his nephew.
 ''It was a moment that ran totally counter to the image of Roger as a calm, respectful and good person,'' Rafael Nadal said. ''I still think he is a good person. I think what happened in Rome was just due to a rise in the tension level and the nerves.''
 Nadal added, ''The last two finals we played, at the French Open and Wimbledon, everything went back to normal.''
 Federer, though reluctant to reheat the sensitive subject, is still convinced he complained with good cause. ''I just felt like it was going on in Dubai, Monte Carlo and in Rome and before that at the French in the semifinals the year before,'' he said. ''All of a sudden, I said to myself, this is now out of control.''
 ''If you come through juniors, you have all this stuff, and eventually it's hard for some just to let go and say, 'O.K., we're on the men's tour, and there's no coaching here,' '' said Federer, who could still have won in Rome had he not made a mess of a forehand on both of his match points.
 Nadal not only makes Federer hit awkward shots by getting his crosscourt topspin forehand up high to Federer's backhand, but he also makes him hit extra shots, and Nadal has made Federer hit enough on hardcourts to hold a 2-1 edge on a surface that roughly equates to neutral ground. But the two have yet to play on the neutral ground in New York. ''First, let me worry about playing well in New York,'' said Nadal, who has yet to make it past the third round at the Open. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); RANKINGS (67%) Tennis; United States Open (Tennis)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (93%); ROGER FEDERER (92%) Christopher Clarey; Roger Federer; Rafael Nadal

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



559 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: California Seeks To Clear Hemp Of a Bad Name

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: STRATFORD, Calif. 

 BODY:
Charles Meyer's politics are as steady and unswerving as the rows of pima cotton on his Central Valley farm. With his work-shirt blue eyes and flinty Clint Eastwood demeanor, he is staunchly in favor of the war in Iraq, against gun control and believes people unwilling to recite the Pledge of Allegiance should be kicked out of America, and fast.
 But what gets him excited is the crop he sees as a potential windfall for California farmers: industrial hemp, or Cannabis sativa. The rapidly growing plant with a seemingly infinite variety of uses is against federal law to grow because of its association with its evil twin, marijuana.
''Industrial hemp is a wholesome product,'' said Mr. Meyer, 65, who says he has never worn tie-dye and professes a deep disdain for ''dope.'' 
 ''The fact we're not growing it is asinine,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 Things could change if a measure passed by legislators in Sacramento and now on Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's desk becomes law. [The bill reached Mr. Schwarzenegger last week; he has 30 days to sign or veto it.] 
 Seven states have passed bills supporting the farming of industrial hemp; their strategy has been to try to get permission from the Drug Enforcement Administration to proceed. 
 But California is the first state that would directly challenge the federal ban, arguing that it does not need a D.E.A. permit, echoing the state's longstanding fight with the federal authorities over its legalization of medicinal marijuana. The hemp bill would require farmers who grow it to undergo crop testing to ensure their variety of cannabis is nonhallucinogenic; its authors say it has been carefully worded to avoid conflicting with the federal Controlled Substances Act.
 But those efforts have not satisfied federal and state drug enforcement authorities, who argue that fields of industrial hemp would only serve as hiding places for illicit cannabis. The California Narcotic Officers Association opposes the bill, and a spokesman for the Office of National Drug Control Policy in Washington said the measure was unworkable.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican running for re-election, has been mum on his intentions, with the political calculus of hemp in California difficult to decipher. The bill was the handiwork of two very different lawmakers, Assemblyman Mark Leno, a San Francisco Democrat best known for attempting to legalize same-sex marriage, and Assemblyman Charles S. DeVore, an Orange County Republican who worked in the Pentagon as a Reagan-era political appointee.
 Their bipartisan communion underscores a deeper shift in hemp culture that has evolved in recent years, from ragtag hempsters whose love of plants with seven leaves ran mostly to marijuana, to today's savvy coalition of organic farmers and health-food entrepreneurs working to distance themselves from the drug.
 Hundreds of hemp products, including energy bars and cold-pressed hemp oil, are made in California, giving the banned plant a capitalist aura. But manufacturers must import the raw material, mostly from Canada, where hemp cultivation was legalized in 1998.
 The new hemp entrepreneurs regard it as a sustainable crop, said John Roulac, 47, a former campaigner against clear-cutting and a backyard composter before founding Nutiva, a growing California hemp-foods company. ''They want to lump together all things cannabis,'' said David Bronner, 33, whose family's squeeze-bottle Dr. Bronners Magic Soaps, based in Escondido, Calif., are made with hemp oil. ''You don't associate a poppy seed bagel with opium.''
 The differences between hemp and its mind-altering cousin, however, can be horticulturally challenging to grasp. The main one is that the epidermal glands of marijuana secrete a resin of euphoria-inducing delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, or T.H.C., a substance all but lacking in industrial hemp.
 Ernest Small, a Canadian researcher who co-wrote a major hemp study in 2002 for Purdue University, compared the genetic differences to those that separate racehorses from plow horses. Evolution, Mr. Small said, has almost completely bred T.H.C. out of industrial hemp, which by law must have a concentration of no more than three-tenths of 1 percent.
 To its supporters, industrial hemp is utopia in a crop. Prized not only for its healthful seeds and oils, rich in omega-3 and -6 fatty acids, but also its fast, bamboo-like growth that shades out weeds, without pesticides.
 ''Simply put, you create a jungle in one year,'' said John LaBoyteaux, who testified in Sacramento on behalf of the California Certified Organic Farmers association. ''There's a growing market out there, and we can't tap it.''
 The bill before Governor Schwarzenegger is the latest installment in a hemp debate that reached its height in 2004, when the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals said that federal antidrug laws did not apply to the manufacturing or consumption of industrial hemp. The court ruled that decades earlier, Congress had exempted from marijuana-control laws the stalks, fibers, oils and seeds of industrial hemp, and that the government had no right to ban hemp products.
 That opened the floodgates for Patagonia hemp jeans and the Merry Hempsters Zit Zapper (with hemp oil).
 Patrick D. Goggin, a lawyer for the Hemp Industries Association and Vote Hemp, said there would probably be legal snarls to work out with the California legislation, assuming it is enacted, so that farmers would not be placing their property in jeopardy if they chose to grow industrial hemp. But if the federal government clamps down, Mr. Goggin said, ''we're prepared to raise the issue in court.''
 ''Were trying to get an arcane vision of the law contemporized,'' he added. 
 Rogene Waite, a spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Administration, said the agency would not speculate about pending legislation.
 The bill's adherents point to hemp's hallowed niche in American history. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson cultivated hemp (neither effort was profitable). Colonists' boats sailed the Atlantic with hempen sails. Old Ironsides carried 60 tons of hempen sail and rope. The word ''canvas,'' in fact, is derived from cannabis, a high-tensile fiber naturally resistant to decay.
 Hemp flourished as an American crop from the end of the Civil War until the 1937 Marihuana Tax Act ended production. During World War II, when Japan seized the Philippines and cut off supplies of Manila hemp, the crop got a brief reprieve in the United States, where farmers were encouraged to grow ''Hemp for Victory,'' for boots, parachute cording and the like. But contrary to lore, most such hemp was never harvested.
 Today, China controls about 40 percent of the world's hemp fiber, and its ability to flood the market ''could result in price fluctuations the American farmer would have to weather,'' said Valerie Vantreese, an agricultural economist in Lexington, Ky. (Kentucky was once the leading hemp-producing state). 
 Hemp is grown legally in about 30 countries, including many in the European Union, where it is mixed with lime to make plaster and as a ''biocomposite'' in the interior panels of Mercedes-Benzes.
 In the United States, the chief argument against hemp has been made by drug-control officials, who are concerned that vast acreages could be used to conceal clandestine marijuana, which they say would be impossible to detect.
 ''California is a great climate to grow pot in, and no one from law enforcement is going through the fields to do a chemical analysis of different plants,'' said Thomas A. Riley, a spokesman for the Office of National Drug Control Policy in Washington. 
 To some people intimatewith the nuances of marijuana, however, the idea of hiding marijuana in a hemp field, where the plants would cross-pollinate, provokes amusement.
 ''It would be the end of outdoors marijuana,'' said Jack Heber, 67, a marijuana historian and author who runs a group called Help End Marijuana Prohibition, or HEMP. ''If it gets mixed with that crop, it's a disaster.'' 
 In North Dakota, the state agricultural commissioner, Roger Johnson, has proposed allowing hemp farming, and has been working with federal drug regulators on stringent regulations that would include fingerprinting farmers and requiring G.P.S. coordinates of hemp fields.
 ''We've done our level best to convince them we're not a bunch of wackos,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 Fifteen years ago, he noted, there was little market for canola, which is now a major crop produced for its cooking oil. He sees hemp in a similar vein and dismisses the fears that it would lead to criminality.
 ''It would take a joint the size of a telephone pole to have an impact,'' he said.
 But up north in Garberville, the Central Valley of marijuana, the lines between hemp and marijuana are often a hazy blur, as they are at a store called the Hemp Connection, where hemp hats and yoga clothing are sold alongside manuals on pot botany and Stoneware baking pans (''makes six groovy brownies per pan'').
 The proprietor, Marie Mills, who said she once crafted paper from marijuana stalks, remains committed to cannabis in all its guises. 
 ''We want to educate people and take away the stigma,'' Ms. Mills said. ''We want hemp without harassment.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about efforts in California to legalize the growing of industrial hemp, banned because of its association with marijuana, misspelled the surname of a marijuana historian. He is Jack Herer, not Heber.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Domestic hemp production was promoted in World War II but later outlawed. Hemp twine was on sale this month at the 15th annual Hempfest in Seattle. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for the New York Times)
 Charles Meyer, who farms 2,600 acres south of Fresno, Calif., is among a growing number of people who advocate legalizing the cultivation of industrial hemp. ''The fact we're not growing it is asinine,'' Mr. Meyer said. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COTTON FABRICS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); VETO (75%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (75%); CROP RESEARCH (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (70%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Hemp; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Marijuana; Law and Legislation; Hemp; Farmers; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; States (US); Hemp

ORGANIZATION: Drug Enforcement Administration

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%); CLINT EASTWOOD (72%) Patricia Leigh Brown; Mark (Assemblyman) Leno; Charles S (Assemblyman) DeVore; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%) California; Canada; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



560 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: For Delta, Another Obstacle to Normalcy

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
The crash of Comair Flight 5191 on Sunday could complicate the efforts of the regional carrier's parent company, Delta Air Lines, to emerge from bankruptcy but probably will not cause direct financial distress to Delta.
 Commercial airlines carry large insurance policies that protect them in most crashes. The value of the aircraft is covered, and typically airlines are also insured against claims by the families of passengers killed in an accident.
''You don't see big financial write-offs after a crash,'' said Roger King, an airline analyst at CreditSights, a securities research company. ''It's a pretty mature industry.'' 
 A Delta spokeswoman, Betsy Talton, said that her company maintained insurance on its planes and for liability related to passengers.
 The main business risk is to a company's reputation. But American Airlines and United Airlines -- the two biggest domestic carriers -- and others have survived and moved forward after major crashes. The enormous awareness of their brands and operating histories tend to loom larger in consumers' minds than a single accident.
 The ValuJet case was an exception. After a crash 10 years ago of a DC-9 in the Florida Everglades that killed all 110 people aboard, the small airline was grounded by regulators for three months. When it resumed operations and tried to restore public confidence, business was poor. The next year it merged with tiny AirTran Airways and dropped the ValuJet name; AirTran has since prospered.
 Delta's acquisition in 2000 of Comair, a big regional airline, has had a difficult history. Buying at the top of the economic cycle, Delta paid a lofty $1.8 billion. In 2004, with the airline industry in sharp decline, Delta wrote off about $1.4 billion of that purchase price as a loss.
 This year, as Delta has sought to cut labor and other costs so that it can emerge from bankruptcy in 2007, it has struggled to persuade Comair workers, who have greater union representation than do workers at Delta, to go along with reduced wages and benefits. Earlier this month, a frustrated Delta said it would seek bids from other regional airlines to operate some flights currently handled by Comair.
 Comair workers, some of whom are threatening to strike, are resisting the proposed pay cuts, saying that Delta's financial situation has improved vastly since it entered bankruptcy nearly a year ago. In light of the crash, Comair's management will be busy helping federal investigators and offering assistance to grieving families and may be less immediately concerned with Delta's labor issues.
 Delta has made progress toward emerging from bankruptcy. By June 30, it had reduced its fleet to 625 planes, from 869 a year earlier, including Comair, which has resulted in fuller flights. With fewer seats to fill, Delta has also been able to raise fares during the last year, by about 15 percent. Indeed, the entire airline industry is doing better, due to a relatively strong economy and a smaller domestic fleet.
 In the second quarter, traditionally a strong one for airlines, Delta had a profit of $175 million, excluding big charges related to its bankruptcy. Including those charges, Delta lost $2.2 billion in the quarter.
 Delta's pilots, the only major group of workers at the parent airline represented by a union, have agreed to a second big round of wage and benefit cuts. Delta has moved to terminate the pilots' pension plan. Overall, Delta's pension obligations were underfunded by $10.6 billion when it entered bankruptcy, according to an estimate by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Delta, using different accounting, estimated that its pension plans were $6.37 billion shy of their obligations.
 Delta still has plenty of problems, including competitive challenges from smaller and less encumbered rivals. In Atlanta, for example -- Delta's home market -- AirTran is growing rapidly and has carved out market share of more than 15 percent by offering low fares. That is holding down fares for Delta there.
 Up and down the East Coast, Delta competes against another expanding discounter, JetBlue Airways.
 Partly in response to those difficult domestic conditions, Delta has shifted many of its bigger planes to international routes, where there is less competition from low-cost carriers. Delta continues to rely on Comair and other regional airlines, however, to feed passengers from smaller markets to those overseas flights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); BRAND EQUITY (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Airlines and Airplanes; Accidents and Safety; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: COMAIR LTD (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Comair Inc; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: COM (JSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Kentucky; Lexington (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006



561 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: BMW's Custom-Made University 

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

DATELINE: CLEMSON, S.C. 

 BODY:
When Clemson University received $10 million from the German automaker BMW in 2002, the money helped jump-start a $1.5 billion automotive research and educational center. It also led to a partnership that both the automaker and the university acknowledge has grown extraordinarily close.
 In return for the largest cash donation ever received by the school, Clemson gave the company some unusual privileges, including a hand in developing a course of study. Clemson's president drives a silver BMW X5 sport utility vehicle, compliments of BMW, whose only North American plant is 50 miles away.
At Clemson's urging, BMW in large part created the curriculum for an automotive graduate engineering school. The company also drew up profiles of its ideal students; it gave Clemson, a state-supported university, a list of professors and specialists to interview, and even had approval rights over the school's architectural look.
 With its first students to be in class this fall, the project, known as the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research, is a particularly rich example of cooperation between a multinational corporation and a university. Several automotive suppliers, including Michelin, the tire company, and the Timken Company, a maker of bearings, have also contributed financing to the project, in part by endowing professorships at the new graduate school. 
 But BMW is the lead player. Details about the arrangement between Clemson and BMW have emerged from a lawsuit brought last year by a Florida developer who claims the university had signed a deal with him to start an automotive center. 
 Clemson's original plan with the developer was to build a high-speed wind tunnel that would cater to Nascar race teams and carmakers, including BMW. But the developer claims that BMW muscled him aside to pursue its far more ambitious plans.
 Some critics wonder whether the university is blurring the line between academia and business and question how much control companies should have in such partnerships.
 Alliances between universities and corporations are not uncommon, but some have drawn fire. In 1998, the University of California, Berkeley, and the pharmaceutical company Novartis reached a $25 million deal to develop drugs, which was later criticized by some students and faculty members as compromising academic freedom. Other university partnerships, some with automakers, have been less controversial. Ohio State University, for example, is working with General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler and Honda on fuel efficiency and other projects.
 ''It's a new model to invite private interests to partner so aggressively with you,'' said Robert T. Geolas, the director of the International Center for Automotive Research, which the university regards as crucial to its goal of becoming a Top 20 public university. But Mr. Geolas added that ''there ought to be a way to put together the two without disrupting their core missions.''
 Prof. Sheldon Krimsky, who teaches urban and environmental policy and planning at Tufts University and has written on the commercialization of universities, said, ''It looks like you've got a profit-making corporation that's calling the shots in a university setting.''
 Robert M. Hitt, manager of public relations at BMW's plant in Greer, S.C., says that ''BMW has not captured Clemson.'' But he later added, ''Where are we going to get our future managers from, our future department heads?''
 Dr. Christian E. G. Przirembel, Clemson's vice president for research and economic development, argued that although BMW and Clemson had ''two very different missions and very different cultures, we are a not-for-profit, and our core mission is to educate.'' 
 The partnership, he said, is in line with the university's land-grant mission of helping drive the regional economy. 
 Japanese and German carmakers have turned the region into a Detroit of the South. According to state figures, the auto industry employs 31,000 people in South Carolina. The BMW S.U.V. that Clemson's president, James F. Barker, is driving is part of a pool that the automaker has provided to state leaders. 
 A Clemson spokeswoman, Sandy Woodward, said the car, which can be traded in every 10,000 miles, was assigned to Mr. Barker by the Clemson University Foundation. Mr. Barker's employment contract, like those of many university presidents, includes the use of a car.
 Merrill Goozner, director of the Integrity in Science Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, an advocacy group based in Washington, said the use of the car was highly unusual given the partnership between Clemson and BMW.
 The Florida developer who is suing Clemson, Clifford D. Rosen, contends in the court papers that BMW and state officials worked together to push him out of a deal he had with Clemson. Mr. Rosen claims that BMW threatened to take its business elsewhere unless it could make the project serve its own research and educational needs.
 The lawsuit has produced documents that indicate how much control BMW sought in the project. 
 Handwritten notes from the files of Doug Richardson, the chief financial officer of Clemson's endowment, of an exchange between Clemson and BMW officials say that ''BMW is going to drive the entire campus.'' The notes, dated August 2002, were obtained by Mr. Rosen's lawyer through discovery and later filed with the court. 
 The notes also indicate that BMW officials were sharply critical of Clemson officials' initial plan to include Mr. Rosen in the project.
 By September 2002, a letter written by a lawyer at Nelson, Mullins, Riley & Scarborough, a law firm representing the university, said that Clemson would ''ensure that while grants and endowments may be received from other automotive manufacturers, BMW will have an exclusive status with regard to the Clemson campus.'' 
 Through its new school and unusual partnership with BMW, Clemson becomes the first university in the nation to offer a doctoral degree in automotive engineering.
 The Center for Automotive Research is being built in stages on 250 wooded acres along Interstate 85 on the outskirts of Greenville, 50 miles northeast of the Clemson campus.
 This fall, about seven graduate students and their professors will work side-by-side with BMW engineers, mostly on BMW-related projects, at the old Clemson campus until the new school is completed sometime next year. The program will train engineers who can design, build and market high-tech vehicles and who may likely work for BMW after graduation.
 Up to 30 percent of the research that the Clemson graduate students and professors will perform will be financed by the private sector, mostly BMW, Dr. Przirembel said, giving the German automaker significant control of the research results. That is nearly double what Clemson has received in other research areas.
 The university will own any intellectual property that the center produces. BMW will hold licenses to any patents that emerge from its work, and Clemson will receive royalty payments on the licenses, Dr. Przirembel said. 
 So far, about $215 million has been invested in the project, mostly by the state of South Carolina. Over the next 20 years or so, Clemson hopes to draw in other automotive industry players to set up research and commercial testing centers, in five interconnected clusters of modern buildings erected along hilltops among dense, lush woods.
 BMW's $10 million gift endowed two professorships at the graduate school, the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Graduate Engineering Center, named after the former South Carolina governor who lured the carmaker to the state in1992. The state matched the pledge, and kicked in an additional $25 million to build the school. 
 Next to the school is the BMW Information Technology Research Center, built for the sole use of BMW with $15 million in state funds last year as part of an incentive package related to BMW's $400 million expansion of its nearby plant. That plant now makes one in six BMW's. The gleaming, high-tech research center, completed last summer according to BMW's design, will use Clemson graduate students to work on BMW's custom-ordered, proprietary projects in museumlike, airy bays.
 While Clemson ultimately did not hire any people on the BMW-provided list of professors and engineers, it did ask its candidates to sit through interviews with BMW. A network council composed of BMW managers meets monthly to advise Clemson on the curriculum. BMW also has a representative on the automotive school's advisory board and will review students' papers to ensure that proprietary information is not submitted for publication. Clemson's new automotive school has its roots in the high-speed wind tunnel that is at the heart of the dispute with Mr. Rosen, the Florida developer.
 Mr. Rosen's lawsuit says that in early 2001, the head of the Brooks Institute for Sports Science at Clemson, who is now deceased, approached Mr. Rosen about building a world-class center focused on the motor sports industry. The plan revolved around the $50 million wind tunnel, for which Clemson would sell time at $2,000 or more an hour to Nascar and Formula One teams.
 Clemson pitched the idea to BMW. But what BMW said it wanted, according to the court documents, was a pipeline of engineers through a new graduate school and a new proprietary research center right next door.
 Clemson embraced that idea while continuing to work with Mr. Rosen, and by May 2002 it had signed a contract with him for the project. But by 2003, Mr. Rosen contends in his lawsuit, BMW threatened to move its research center and financing for the Clemson graduate center to Tennessee if Clemson did not work directly with BMW and cut him out. 
 A trial date has not been set for the suit. Mr. Rosen would only say, ''I believe that I was treated unfairly.'' His lawyer, James Gilreath, declined to comment. 
 Both Clemson and BMW declined to discuss Mr. Rosen's lawsuit. Recently, Clemson officials filed affidavits saying that BMW had exerted no undue control over the project and that negotiations had been at arm's length.
 Outside the courtroom, Clemson officials say they are delighted with the input from BMW, whose sprawling factory churns out Z4 roadsters and X5 S.U.V.'s. 
 ''When you're working with the ultimate driving machine, you have to keep on your toes,'' Mr. Barker, Clemson's president, said, quoting BMW's marketing slogan.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Clemson's graduate engineering center, above left, near the International Center for Automotive Research. In its lobby, a BMW Z4, top. (Photographs by Chris Keane for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
A BMW X5, the model driven by Clemson University's president. (Photo by BMW)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Big Corporations on Campus''Here are some recent high-profile agreements between universities and corporations. Such deals have met with varying degrees of controversy regarding academic freedom, intellectual property rights and the overall value of these relationships to both universities and corporations.UNIVERSITY -- StanfordCORPORATIONS -- Exxon Mobil, General Electric, Schlumberger, ToyotaYEAR -- 2002AMOUNT -- $225 million over 10 yearsDESCRIPTION -- Created the Global Climate and Energy Project to research low-greenhouse-gas emission technology.UNIVERSITY -- PrincetonCORPORATIONS -- Ford, BPYEAR -- 2000AMOUNT -- $20 million over 10 yearsDESCRIPTION -- Created the Carbon Mitigation Initiative to research climate change and reducing and capturing carbon dioxide emissions.UNIVERSITY -- California, BerkeleyCORPORATIONS -- Novartis/SyngentaYEAR -- 1998AMOUNT -- $25 million over 5 yearsDESCRIPTION -- Funded basic research by the department of plant and microbial biology into plant genetics.(Sources by Jennifer Washburn, ''University, Inc.: The Corporate Corruption of Higher Education'' [Basic Books, 2005]
Stanford University Global Climate and Energy Project
 Princeton University Carbon Mitigation Initiative)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); CURRICULA (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (75%); TIRES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); NASCAR RACING (50%) Colleges and Universities; Automobiles ; Ethics; Graduate Schools and Students; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: TIMKEN CO (82%); NOVARTIS AG (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEMSON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%) Clemson University; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (82%); NVS (NYSE) (63%); NOVN (SWX) (63%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Clifford D Rosen; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



562 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally as Decline in Oil Price Eases Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks gained in light trading yesterday as a sharp drop in oil prices relieved worries about inflation and the outlook for corporate profits.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed at its highest level since May 17 as investors bought shares of industrial companies like 3M and United Technologies, anticipating that cheaper energy costs might help corporate results.
The Nasdaq posted its third consecutive day of gains, benefiting from an upgrade of Intel and an advertising partnership between eBay and Google. Intel gave the Nasdaq its biggest lift. 
 However, trading was light on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, with many traders taking the week off before the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 4, the unofficial end of summer.
 The Dow rose 67.96 points, or 0.6 percent, to end at 11,352.01. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.69 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,301.78. The Nasdaq composite index was up 20.41 points, or 0.95 percent, at 2,160.70.
 Crude oil futures for October delivery dropped $1.90, or 2.6 percent, to settle at $70.61 a barrel after Tropical Storm Ernesto was downgraded from a hurricane and was forecast to miss oil rigs and platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''What people were most concerned about going into the weekend was the potential for hurricanes,'' said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer at North Star Investment Management in Chicago. ''Since that didn't materialize, you had a sell-off in energy prices that gave a lift to the market.''
 Wal-Mart Stores forecast monthly sales near the top end of its estimates, adding to optimism about consumer spending even as worries mounted about a slowdown in housing. An S.& P. retail index advanced 1.1 percent.
 Traders said Wal-Mart's sales forecast helped ease worries about the retail industry, which took a beating last week as investors worried that a housing slowdown would hurt consumer spending. Wal-Mart's stock rose 1.3 percent, or 55 cents, to $44.43.
 Shares of eBay rose 1.9 percent, or 49 cents, to $25.79, and Google shares advanced 2.1 percent, or $7.69, to $380.95. Shares of Intel rose 2.5 percent, or 48 cents, to $19.38, after Friedman Billings Ramsey upgraded its shares.
 United Technologies shares climbed 1.4 percent, or 86 cents, to $61.53, while 3M added 1.5 percent, or $1.02, to $70.94 on the Big Board.
 ''There have been persistent concerns about the higher price of oil causing inflationary pressures, and some of that should be relieved,'' said Michael James, senior trader at the regional investment bank Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note edged up to 4.79 percent in light trading as traders adjusted their positions ahead of the release of the minutes from the Aug. 8 meeting of the Federal Reserve, when it halted its monetary tightening campaign, at least temporarily.
 The 10-year note's price, which moves in the opposite direction from its yield, declined 3/32 , to 10021/32. 
 The euro was up 0.2 percent at $1.2787, more than a cent below a two-month high of around $1.294 on Aug. 21. The euro traded at $1.2758 late Friday.
 The dollar slipped against the yen to 117.13 yen, mostly because of the United States currency's broad weakness, from 117.24 yen late on Friday.
 In New York, gold hit a 10-day low as the storm fears faded. Gold for December delivery fell $7.60, to $614.93 an ounce.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auctions of three- and six-month Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.746	97.487	High Rate	 4.960	 4.970	Investment Rate	 5.093	 5.169	Low Rate	 4.940	 4.940	Median Rate	 4.945	 4.955	Total applied for	$49,246,644	$39,708,489	Accepted	$24,617,582	$23,072,419	Noncompetitive	$1,974,109	$1,816,414	

Both issues are dated Aug. 31, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 30, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on March 01, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); TROPICAL STORMS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Credit; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); EBAY INC (84%); 3M CO (84%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (84%); MMM (SWX) (84%); MMM (NYSE) (84%); MMM (FRA) (84%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



563 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: The Philippines Persuades Investors to Take a Chance

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 28 

 BODY:
With about $76 billion in debt, the Philippines is known as the sick man of Asia. But earlier this summer, as markets around the region were still struggling to recover from a sell-off by global investors, the Philippines pulled off something seemingly unthinkable: it persuaded international investors to lend it $750 million.
 Altogether, Manila will ask investors for roughly $4 billion in new loans this year, making the Philippines the biggest offshore borrower in Asia -- bigger than Japan. The bond sale in July was all the more surprising because Manila's bonds paid investors about three percentage points more than the rate paid by the United States government, the world's most creditworthy borrower.
Earlier this year, economists generally attributed the success of bond sales in emerging markets to a deluge of investors desperate for strong returns. But now, as global interest rates rise, economists say they see an entirely new emerging market. 
 Once considered basket cases, the Philippines and other emerging economies have become more skillful at managing huge debts, analysts say. Low interest rates, combined with investors' fervor for emerging markets and high commodity prices, have helped bolster balance sheets of these economies, allowing them to repay debts. 
 Russia, flush with oil revenue, for instance, repaid the $23.7 billion it owed the Paris Club of creditor nations last week. Peru and Poland are considering doing the same. Brazil and Panama this year retired the last of the so-called Brady bonds -- the securities, backed by the United States, issued in the 1980's to help rescue them. The Philippines paid off half of its Brady bonds in June. 
 Some economists have even questioned the need for organizations like the International Monetary Fund. ''As countries like the Philippines gain credibility, their need of the I.M.F. diminishes,'' said Rebecca Patterson, a global currency strategist for J. P. Morgan in New York. 
 A lot of this newfound credibility also stems from an increased talent for working with investors, analysts say. Some borrower nations, including the Philippines, have even established investor relations offices.
 ''They're very open and transparent and good at highlighting the positive,'' said Agost Benard, an associate director at Standard & Poor's in Singapore. 
 With a nagging communist rebellion and a Muslim insurgency linked to Al Qaeda, the Philippines has a lot of highlighting to do. After taking power in 2001 amid street protests against the corruption of her predecessor, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo faced down an impeachment campaign last year amid allegations that she had tried to rig elections in 2004. Mrs. Arroyo's entire economic team resigned. Then in February, she declared emergency rule in the wake of what appeared to be an attempted coup. 
 But the biggest worry for investors is the country's huge government debt. Servicing the debt consumes almost 40 percent of the government's income. 
 And Manila's income is paltry. The government takes in only about 14 percent of the national gross domestic product in revenue because it has a poor tax collection rate. Analysts estimate that only about 35 percent of taxes owed are paid. 
 ''It's not that tax rates are too low,'' said James McCormack at Fitch Ratings in Hong Kong. ''It's tax collection. There are problems with corruption on both sides.'' 
 Despite this, the Philippines has been able to borrow repeatedly. Analysts say investors have grown used to Manila's political theatrics, confident that, whatever happens, the Philippines will manage to pay on time. 
 Investors came to that conclusion only with some convincing. Shortly after sweeping to power in 2001, Mrs. Arroyo appointed Jose I. Camacho, a Harvard-trained investment banker with 20 years of experience, as her finance secretary. 
 To rebuild investor confidence, Mr. Camacho, who has since rejoined the banking industry and is vice chairman of investment banking at Credit Suisse in Singapore, said in an interview he pushed for the establishment of an investor relations office. That was something the I.M.F. and the Institute of International Finance had been urging developing countries to do since the Mexican peso crisis of 1995. Mexico, Brazil, Chile, South Korea and Turkey have since set up their own investor relations offices. 
 The Philippines quickly gained a reputation as an aggressive lobbyist. Along with regular briefings, the office maintains a Web site with financial data and courts investors with a steady stream of information via e-mail. ''All of this information on the economy -- they get it constantly,'' said Renato G. Pizarro, executive director of the office. 
 Mr. Camacho and his team also began flying to the world's financial capitals to meet with investors even when they were not trying to sell them bonds, something that had not been done before. 
 In 2002, when the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, said it planned to stop investing in the Philippines because of political instability and other problems, Mr. Camacho flew to Sacramento to petition the giant fund personally. ''It was like a hearing,'' Mr. Camacho said. 
 Mr. Camacho won over Calpers, and other investors. ''We were able to tap the market as and when we needed,'' he said. 
 Mr. Camacho resigned in 2003 but has been succeeded by a string of former financial professionals who have continued to improve on what he introduced. With financing secure, the government started selling more bonds. ''They always time their issues well,'' Mr. Benard of Standard & Poor's said. 
 An example of just how well came last September. A week after the Philippine Supreme Court upheld an expanded value-added tax expected to add about 75 billion pesos, or $1.5 billion, a year to government coffers, Manila sold $1 billion in bonds. Investors bought them even though the bonds paid interest rates half a percentage point lower than the government's previous issue in May. 
 The expanded value-added tax was part of a raft of measures aimed at improving government revenue. 
 Along with its ability to manage debt, the Philippines appears closer to controlling its deficit. After introducing more stringent checks for tax evasion and incentives for tax collectors, the government's tax revenue rose last year for the first time since 1997. 
 Not everyone is sold, however. In February, even after Fitch and Standard & Poor's raised their outlook on the Philippines' debt to stable, Moody's Investors Service maintained its negative outlook. ''We felt that the Philippines has made some progress,'' said Thomas J. Byrne, an analyst at Moody's in New York. ''But the debt is still so big and the debt servicing is so big that the risk of shocks will remain.'' 
 Still, Philippine bonds remained fairly steady in the market rout in May, even as their peers in the emerging markets suffered. 
 ''I feel there is a greater degree of optimism,'' said Mr. Pizarro at the investor relations office. ''At the end of the day, it will all translate into lower finance costs.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (84%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (72%); CORRUPTION (65%); AL-QAEDA (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); COUPS (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Government Bonds; Foreign Investments; Finances; Credit

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); PARIS CLUB (54%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%) Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (94%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Philippines; Philippines

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



564 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Big Battle in Small-Jet Skies

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
After keeping below the radar for years while it quietly ordered airplanes and lined up capital, a new player is emerging in the air taxi industry. 
 The company, Magnum Jet, plans early next year to make planes available for hire on demand in regional route sectors -- starting in Texas and the Southwest, eventually expanding to the New York area south to Florida, and then to the Pacific coast.
Magnum's initial plane of choice is the Adam Aircraft A700, one of two models of very light jets expected to enter service soon. 
 In choosing the A700, Magnum has drawn a line in a battle between the leading manufacturers of very light jets: fuel-efficient planes built of carbon-fiber composites that seat up to six passengers and are designed for short-haul flying. 
 The other major manufacturer is Eclipse Aviation. Its jet, the Eclipse 500, is the choice of Magnum's rival, DayJet, which will become the first commercial operator of the jets when it begins a regional taxi service in Florida in December, with plans to expand in the Southeast.
 Ed Iacobucci, the DayJet chief executive, said he welcomed Magnum. ''It's a new market,'' he said, ''and there's more potential opportunity than there are people to satisfy it.'' 
 There are sharp differences between the DayJet and Magnum Jet business models -- and the aircraft they intend to fly.
 The Adam A700, which costs about $2.25 million, has more cabin space than the Eclipse 500 (245 cubic feet versus 162). It also has a lavatory. The Eclipse 500, which costs about $1.7 million, does not have a lavatory.
 And so, the dawn of what many proponents of very light jets have called a new era in aviation may break with what might be called the battle of the bathrooms.
 Rick Adam, the chief executive of Adam Aircraft of Englewood, Colo., said, ''People are not going to get on a plane without a bathroom, or at least they're not going to do it more than once.''
 Not so, said Vern Raburn, the chief executive of Eclipse Aviation of Albuquerque. 
 ''How often do you have to go?'' Mr. Raburn asked. ''What DayJet is planning to do -- and what the majority of our customers are planning to use their planes for -- is fly 300 to 500 miles, in 40 to 80 minutes. Lots of people commute by car that long and don't have to stop.''
 Last year, Embraer, a Brazilian manufacturer of commercial airline regional jets, said it would develop its first very light jet, the Phenom 100, priced at $2.85 million and scheduled for delivery in 2008 (it will have a bathroom). And Honda recently said it would build very light jets for delivery in 2010.
 Magnum Jet has 50 orders for Adam A700's and another 51 options. Magnum also has another 50 orders and 50 options for the Phenom 100. Eclipse has about 1,700 firm orders, and Adam has about 345. DayJet has 329 firm orders and 70 options for the Eclipse 500.
 How could Magnum, a company that few people have heard of, suddenly spring forward as a potential big player in the air taxi business?
 ''We wanted to make sure the planes were available before we started talking,'' said Jim Burns, who founded Magnum Jet in a partnership with Million Air, a major operator of terminals and maintenance facilities at general aviation airports. 
 Mr. Adam -- who said Magnum was his company's biggest customer -- said he expected to deliver the first planes in the first quarter of 2007.
 Mr. Burns's major investor is Proctor NBF Capital Partners. 
 DayJet plans to sell single seats on demand to customers it identifies as alienated air travelers who hate the delays and frustrations of short-haul commercial flying so much that they now usually drive on trips of 250 to 500 miles.
 The Magnum model, on the other hand, carves out a different niche. The fastest-growing segment of the traditional business jet market has been in so-called jet cards, in which a customer prepays for a certain number of flying hours on a specific model of jet operated by a company, without any ownership obligations.
 Using very light jets, Magnum, DayJet and others are adding a new and even less expensive access point to business jet travel. Magnum is marketing its A700's and Phenom 100's to investors who in turn will contract the planes back to Magnum. 
 Magnum will then operate the planes on select city-pair routes as what Mr. Burns calls ''air limousines.'' Initially, Magnum fliers would book the entire plane. 
 Magnum's typical customer might be a company that needs to send a small team -- sales representatives, technicians, engineers -- between regional cities with poor commercial air service. 
 Roger Woolsey, the chief executive of Million Air, which runs 32 private jet terminals and maintenance facilities, said the majority of corporate aircraft passengers ''are middle management, engineers, sales teams and their vendors -- all needing to get to one place and back reliably.''
 Optimists all, the few current players in the very light jet air taxi business say that skeptics about its economic viability are looking through the wrong end of the telescope, in comparing air taxi prices with commercial airline fares. Most air taxi models expect to charge $1 to $3 a mile, partly depending on load factors. 
 But advocates say the market has already spoken, and that more businesses are already paying a premium for reliable regional air service. 
 Jet cards, they point out, are driving much of the growth in the traditional business jet industry, where Honeywell Aerospace forecasts the delivery of 9,900 traditional business jets by 2015. Some jet cards sell for as low as $3,000 an hour for a light business jet like the eight-seat Lear 31. 
 ''They're now selling five-hour jet cards,'' Mr. Adam said. ''That is essentially one regional round-trip flight. How do I know air taxis are going to happen? I'd suggest this shows they've already happened.'' 
 ''There is a lot of discretionary spending out there for reliable private air transportation,'' he added. ''What's missing so far is the distribution model.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Burns, who founded Magnum Jet in a partnership with Million Air, with an Adam A700 very light jet. Right, inside an A700. (Photographs by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (58%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Bathrooms and Toilets

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Magnum Jet (Airline); Dayjet Corp ; Adam Aircraft Industries; Eclipse Aviation

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (84%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



565 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Health Care and the Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Making Health Care the Engine That Drives the Economy'' (Prospects, Aug. 22): It defies common sense to claim that rising health care costs could be beneficial or a nonissue.
 Other developed nations have longer life expectancies while spending half or less than we do. Medical bills are the most common cause of middle-class bankruptcies. Chief executives of H.M.O.'s and insurance companies receive obscene compensation, and lobbyists for the health care industry assert undue influence on public policy. 
In these uncertain times, pensions are underfinanced, college costs are rising rapidly, the national debt is out of control, and the cost of the war on terrorism is soaring. 
 The worst tragedy is that about 18,000 Americans die annually because of lack of health insurance, and countless patients suffer because of inadequate insurance or none at all. We are paying for a Lexus and getting a Yugo. That's not good economics.

Jerry Frankel, M.D.
Plano, Tex.

The writer is a board member of Physicians for a National Health Program.

To the Editor:
 ''Making Health Care the Engine That Drives the Economy'' is either a parody on pundits or a tragic comedy about our health care system. Are these economists so wrapped up in their data that they see little or no difference in public money being spent on huge hospital bills and using it to finance education and other worthy programs?
 Our exorbitant health care costs could be significantly reduced if we practiced prevention. Getting workers to exercise and eat properly could lower insurance costs, and a healthy work force produces better products. 
 One economist raises the question of how to make sure that health care money is spent ''responsibly.'' Americans understand responsible behavior. The responsible thing to do is to try to reduce our blood pressure and waistline with exercise and diet, not with drugs and staple surgery. 
 We need to find a way to make fitness part of our civic responsibility.

Joseph Seliber
Burlingame, Calif.

To the Editor:
 Because the defining American credo is consumerism, it's tempting to believe that spending for the sake of spending is the way to go. Where good health care is concerned, however, less (much less) can be more (much more). 
 Our current allocation neglects large segments of the population, fuels a bloated and inefficient process that could serve us better for a fraction of the cost, and fails to adequately reward the individuals who can make it better. 
 Now economists are telling us, in essence, that we should throw good money after bad just because we can. If we are looking for somewhere to dump excess money, perhaps education would be a more productive receptacle than the health care morass. 
 But then, simply throwing money at education won't produce a better product there, any more than it will in health care.

Karen Engberg, M.D.
Santa Barbara, Calif.

The writer is a physician administrator.

To the Editor:
 America can afford ''huge increases'' in the already alarming cost of health care because we're ''so rich''? 
 Among the 45 million (and rising) nonelderly uninsured Americans, a majority of them employed full time, the rising cost of health care will not mean the difference between a ''third car and a year of life.'' It will mean the difference between rotting teeth and displayable teeth, between set and unset broken bones and between diabetes treatment and early death. 
 The rising cost of health care, both to individuals and to businesses, is a serious life-or-death issue for many people and should be treated as such.

Maxwell Shron
Chicago

The writer is a student at the University of Chicago.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); TERRORISM (54%) Medicine and Health; United States Economy; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health

PERSON: Jerry (Dr) Frankel; Joseph Seliber; Karen (Dr) Engberg; Maxwell Shron; Ruby Heiman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



566 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health&Fitness; A CONVERSATION WITH -- Mary V. Relling; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Saving Lives With Tailor-Made Medication 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
In Mary V. Relling's office in St. Jude Children's Research Hospital sits a small ceramic statue of St. Jude Thaddeus, the patron saint of impossible causes. 
 Dr. Relling, the head of the department of pharmaceutical sciences at St. Jude, has a fondness for impossible causes.
Her own is pharmacogenetics, a clinical discipline in which doctors use high-tech genetic testing to custom-make drugs to patients' individual needs. 
 Though pharmacogenetics is controversial and not yet widely done, Dr. Relling, 46, travels the country advocating its use. At St. Jude, patients with leukemia are now routinely given genetic tests to determine their individual response to a medication. ''We've seen it save lives here,'' she said. ''That's made me a believer.''
 When hundreds of patients are given a drug, she continued, ''some will get no benefit, others will have terrible side effects, and still others will get benefits with tolerable side effects.''
 Gene variants may be the cause.

Q. How is this tailoring of drugs different from the way they're currently ordered?

A. Till now, there's been a one-size-fits-all approach. In most cases, an average dose of a medication is ordered, and then, if the patient suffers side effects, the dosage is adjusted. With gene testing, we can customize the prescription.
 Here at St. Jude, we've been gene-testing every child who comes to us with leukemia. I study acute lymphoblastic leukemia -- A.L.L., the most common childhood cancer. When a youngster comes in with A.L.L., we get a sample of their DNA. We put it on a special computer chip that scans a half-million different places on the genome. Mostly, we're looking for unusual variations of the genes and misspellings of the genetic code. 
 We have a database from earlier patients that helps us predict a patient's risk of relapse and which misspellings are likely to result in drug sensitivities. 

Q. Are there other diseases where the process might be useful?

A. The same medicine we use to treat leukemia is also prescribed for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. So that same genetic test could be employed to reduce side effects with those conditions.
 At the moment, there seems to be a lot of promise for pharmacogenetics in the treatment of arthritis, heart disease, colon cancer and even psychiatric diseases like depression and schizophrenia. 

Q. One can almost hear economists everywhere groaning, ''Oh, no! Not another test to add to health care costs!''

A. The basic research behind pharmacogenetics -- figuring out which genes are important with the various drugs and diseases -- is costly. But on the clinical level, you can save money. With leukemia, we've seen that testing costs are minor compared to the savings gained by avoiding drug reactions, blood transfusions and additional hospitalizations.

Q. How widespread is genetic testing for prescriptions?

A. It's very rarely used. Most probably, you can find it at some academic centers in big cities. And, of course, for many medications, the research isn't in yet about which genes are important and why. But even where tests have been approved, insurers don't cover all the costs, and that's hindered this from growing.
 Most prescribers don't understand genetics very well. The fruits of the Human Genome Project have only been out for about five years, and a lot of doctors and pharmacists did their training before that. 
 I've heard people say that medicine won't change until there are major lawsuits against prescribers who fail to use tests to individualize therapy.

Q. How have the drug companies responded to the promise of pharmacogenetics?

A. Unfortunately, they are not set up for it. The big pharmaceutical companies have a different business model. They make their money from blockbuster drugs that reach millions of people with standardized doses. They don't want their markets to fragment, which is the obvious effect of pharmacogenetics.
 Genomic testing is going to mean that we define smaller and smaller markets for every drug. Instead of one medication for high blood pressure, a manufacturer will have to produce dozens of variants and combinations. 
 It's already difficult to get drugs that benefit smaller numbers of patients. ''Orphan'' drugs are often not manufactured because they help only a small group. 
 In pediatric cancer, we see what happens to orphan drugs because children's cancers are rare and, thus, orphan diseases. Of the nine drugs we regularly use for leukemia, seven have been unavailable for varying periods of time during the last decade. 

Q. What can you do in that situation?

A. We're trying to start making it here at St. Jude. We're not a drug manufacturer, and it isn't easy for us to do. We're also working with pharmaceutical companies to see if we can't help them make it available. But we can't depend on market forces for our supply.
 We've seen that the pharmaceutical companies, if they are interested in cancer drugs at all, are mostly concerned with adult cancers -- the larger market. 

Q. How did you become a pharmacist?

A. I attended the University of Arizona in the late 1970's, as a French major. In my freshman year, I took the required chemistry course with a brilliant teacher, William Lippincott. He made chemistry come alive. Becoming a pharmacist seemed like a practical route to a chemistry career, with good job possibilities after graduation.
 Even today, it's a great profession for a young person to consider. There is a tremendous demand.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BELIEVER -- Mary V. Relling with St. Jude Thaddeus, patron saint of impossible causes. (Photo by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); PHARMACOGENOMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEUKEMIA (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); CANCER (89%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (85%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); DNA (76%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LYMPHOMA (70%); COLORECTAL CANCER (69%); COLON DISEASE (65%); HEART DISEASE (60%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Doctors; Genetics and Heredity; Children and Youth; Research

ORGANIZATION: St Jude Children's Research Hospital (Memphis)

PERSON: Claudia Dreifus; Mary V Relling

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (73%) TENNESSEE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



567 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Help for the Child Who Says No to School

BYLINE: By Jane E. Brody

 BODY:
James, a tall, bright, personable 12-year-old, had been successful socially, athletically and scholastically all through elementary school.
 But everything fell apart when he had to move on to a large centralized middle school. Never a morning person, James now had to get up at 6 a.m. instead of 7:30 to catch the bus. Once at school, he had trouble finding his way around and arrived late for many of his classes. Rather than asking for reasons, which included being bullied and hit by several older boys, his teachers simply gave him late marks and detention.
James's grades plummeted, and his feelings about school crashed with them. He couldn't sleep at night. He started missing school a few days a week, then found himself unable to go at all. His parents were understanding and spoke to school authorities about his problems, but nothing anyone did seemed to make things better, not even disconnecting the television and computer to reduce the ''rewards'' of staying home.

Beginning the Turnaround
 
 A psychological evaluation led to a diagnosis of a serious anxiety disorder set off by the abrupt change in school environment. Medication and 18 months at a therapeutic school, where James made steady progress, turned the situation around. 
 He did not return to the public school that terrified him, but he is thriving in a small private school where he made the National Honor Roll. Refusal to go to school is not an uncommon problem; up to one-quarter of children do it at some point. While you might expect the problem to be severest when a child first enters school, it occurs most often and hits hardest at ages 10 to 13. 
 At this age children typically leave the nurturing environment of elementary school and are thrust into the chaos of middle school and the confusion of dealing with so many teachers. 
 Compound this with the hormonal upheaval. Many children suffer crises in self-confidence and self-image, often exacerbated by the fact that they go from being the oldest and most experienced students in the school to being the youngest and most inexperienced.
 Bullying, often perpetrated by young teens who are unsure of themselves, is one of the most common causes of this problem, called school refusal behavior. ''Children who are bullied or teased often become anxious about going to school,'' said Michelle Kees, a psychologist at the University of Michigan. And some of them may avoid school because it is too hard for them or perhaps because they have an undiagnosed learning disability, she added.
 Christopher A. Kearney, a psychologist at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, offered guidance on dealing with the situation in the August issue of The Journal of Family Practice. He told of Nathan, a 13-year-old who, like James, had trouble adjusting to middle school. 
 Though Nathan seemed fine on the weekends, during the school week he complained of headaches and stomachaches and told his parents he felt upset and nervous in school. He started going to school late, skipping classes and then skipping school altogether. 
 Common symptoms of school refusal behavior may include aggressive behavior, clinging to a parent or other adult, defiance, excessive assurance-seeking behavior, refusal to get up or get ready for school, running away from school or home, or having temper tantrums and crying.
 Dr. Kearney described four circumstances that may prompt refusal to go to school:
 Often in combination with underlying anxiety and depression, the child may be distressed by teachers, students, the bus, the cafeteria, the classrooms and transitions between classes.
 The child may be trying to escape from distressing social situations or academic or athletic evaluations, including interacting with others or having to perform before others.
 The child may be seeking attention from parents by staying home or wanting to go to work with a parent.
 The child may find staying at home a rewarding experience that permits sleeping late, watching television, playing video games, or -- especially for teenagers -- engaging in delinquent behavior or substance abuse.

Risking the Consequences
 Studies have shown that failing to deal with school refusal behavior can have serious consequences. In the short term, children who won't go to school decline academically, become alienated from friends and cause family conflicts and financial and legal problems. Had James not gone willingly to the therapeutic school, the courts would have forced him to attend a school for delinquent children.
 Common long-term problems listed by Dr. Kearney include dropping out of school, delinquent behaviors, economic deprivation, social isolation, marital problems and difficulty holding a job. Failing to receive the needed treatment can lead in later life to problems like anxiety disorder, depression or personality disorders.
 Young children just starting school or returning to school after summer vacation may fear leaving their family or environment. In most cases, the initial hesitancy disappears as the child becomes familiar with the school and its rules and makes new friends. But a child with severe separation anxiety who is paralyzed by the fear of leaving home needs professional help, which should include teaching the parents how to cope effectively with the problem.

Discovering the Right Treatment
 Often, the problem can be minimized before school opens by doing a walk-through of the school and classroom with children and arranging outings or visits with others in the same class. Once school opens, some teachers may allow parents to stay in class with their children for part of the day for a few days.
 Dr. Kearney cautions that if a child has complaints like stomachaches, headaches or fatigue, as Nathan did, these should be checked out to be sure there is no underlying medical problem.
 After Nathan's pediatrician determined that the boy suffered from no underlying physical problems, a psychological exam revealed a generalized anxiety disorder. ''He worried excessively about his social and academic performance at school,'' and he showed physical signs related to anxiety, Dr. Kearney wrote.
 If a psychological evaluation reveals a generalized anxiety disorder or depression, treatment is required, often with medication and professional counseling. Nathan was treated with a combination of sertraline (Zoloft) and anxiety management techniques, his parents received family therapy aimed at limiting the fun he had at home, and school staff members allowed him to gradually return to a full academic schedule.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy, which emphasizes patterns of thinking, is especially effective in such cases.
 For older children, techniques include relaxation training and breathing retraining to reduce the child's anxiety, establishing routines and consequences for not attending school, and developing a contract that increases incentives for going to school and disincentives for staying home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Bradford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (78%); BULLYING (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Education and Schools; Mental Health and Disorders

PERSON: Jane E Brody

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (50%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



568 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Number of Food Stamp Users Drops for 2nd Summer in Row

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
For the second year in a row, the number of New York City residents receiving food stamps has fallen during the summer after rising during the rest of the year, a pattern that has raised questions among advocates for the needy about whether eligible people find it too cumbersome to apply for assistance.
 Fluctuations in food stamp enrollment are closely monitored because of the sheer number of people served. Last month, 1,087,115 city residents used food stamps, a slight decline from 1,095,202 in June and 1,098,225 in May, according to statistics recently released by the city's Human Resources Administration. 
When a similar decline occurred between May and August of last year, the agency described it as a statistical anomaly and predicted that it was a one-time event. The fact that it has happened again struck some experts as odd.
 ''The question is why growth has stagnated given that so many people remain eligible who do not receive benefits,'' said Stacy Dean, director of food stamp policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington that monitors the program.
 ''Historically, food stamp caseloads often have gone down during the summer and there was a seasonal pattern to enrollment, because people would have seasonal employment, for example,'' she said. ''That pattern did seem to flatten out over the last couple of years, but it may be coming back.'' 
 However, Barbara Brancaccio, a spokeswoman for the Human Resources Administration, maintained that the economic conditions for low-income residents had improved on the whole over the past year.
 ''The overall economy is doing better, and the total number of jobs in New York City has increased since July 2005,'' she said. ''Average wages have increased as well. As a result, we are closing out more food stamp cases and declining some applications because the income is in excess of the eligibility threshold.''
 Ms. Brancaccio said it was too early to predict whether the decline in food stamp enrollment signified a trend that would last into the fall or beyond. 
 Carlos M. Rodriguez, a vice president at the Food Bank for New York City, which distributes food to 1,200 food pantries, soup kitchens and other charities, said he was confounded by the drop in enrollment. ''I am troubled by the decline,'' he said. ''I don't see the need going down in the population we serve.'' 
 Indeed, city records show that in five of the first six months of this year, the number of New Yorkers using food pantries and soup kitchens was higher than in the same period a year ago. The city's unemployment rate also rose to 5.7 percent last month, from 5.1 percent in June.
 About one-third of people using food stamps also receive cash assistance under federal and state welfare programs, but the trends for the two types of benefits have not moved in tandem.
 The city's welfare caseload dropped to 388,692 last month -- the lowest level since September 1964 and a two-thirds decline since the peak of nearly 1.2 million in March 1995. The caseload dropped steeply under the mayoralty of Rudolph W. Giuliani and then rose from 2002 to 2004, during Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's first term, before falling once again.
 In contrast, the number of people using food stamps also peaked in March 1995, at 1,458,300, and then fell to a low of 798,396 in January 2002, the same month Mr. Bloomberg took office. Since then, with the exception of a few months, the number has risen rather consistently. The current number, just shy of 1.1 million, is about the same as it was in 1998. 
 The Census Bureau is scheduled to release its annual income and poverty data today. 
 A mayoral commission Mr. Bloomberg established in January to draw up plans for combating poverty in his second term appears poised to recommend that the city focus on helping three groups -- young children, young adults and the working poor -- rather than try to help all poor people at once. Food stamps are considered an important source of income for all three groups. 
 The Bloomberg administration has occasionally clashed with advocates and other elected officials over the rules that determine access to food stamps. The mayor has agreed to accept applications by mail or fax, to allow nonprofit groups to accept applications and process them online, and to open food stamp offices separate from welfare offices, but he has been wary of loosening eligibility rules. 
 In March, Verna Eggleston, the commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, requested a waiver that would have made it easier for able-bodied adults who do not have children and are 18 to 49 years old to receive food stamps -- even if they are not working -- for longer than the normal federal limit of three months in any three-year period.
 Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs, the mayor's top aide on social services matters, approved Ms. Eggleston's decision, but the mayor overruled them both and ordered the request withdrawn after it became public in April. ''You have to have a penalty if there's a requirement to work, and this penalty is one that's appropriate,'' he said at the time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (97%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUDGETS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LIBERALISM (67%) Welfare (US); Food Stamps ; Bureaucratic Red Tape

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



569 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Developer Agrees to Scale Back Catskills Resort Project That Would Rise Near Some City Reservoirs 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
The developer whose proposal to build a huge resort in New York City's Catskill Mountain watershed has been vigorously opposed by environmentalists and others indicated for the first time yesterday that he was willing to shrink the project to win regulatory approval. 
 After touring the heavily wooded development site with environmental officials yesterday, Dean Gitter, the developer, said he would eliminate a golf course planned for the east side of the planned resort known as the Belleayre Resort at Catskill Park.
 He also said he would reduce the size of a hotel planned for the eastern section of the 1,960-acre site to 120 rooms from the original 150, and scale back the number of residential units in that section to 106 from the original 183. 
 Paul Rakov, marketing director for Mr. Gitter's development company, Crossroads Ventures, said that the proposed adjustments would reduce the environmental damage from runoff and road construction by up to 70 percent. 
 But environmentalists and local officials said that the project would still be far too large for the sensitive woodlands. As proposed, the eastern side of project flanks the state-run Belleayre Mountain Ski Center. On the western side of the ski slope the developer plans to build a second large hotel, a golf course and hundreds of residences. 
 Marc S. Gertsman, a lawyer representing a number of local towns and environmental groups known collectively as the Catskill Preservation Coalition, said that while the proposed reduction is ''a small step in the right direction,'' large-scale construction on the wooded mountain slopes would ''still present untenable threats to water quality and change the Catskills landscape forever.'' 
 Since the project was initially proposed in 1999, it has been a regulatory battleground between environmentalists and some local business advocates, as well as between upstate economic interests and downstate concerns about the quality of New York City's water supply. 
 New York City draws much of the 1 billion gallons of water it uses every day from reservoirs in the Catskills. Federal environmental officials have largely allowed the city to avoid regulations requiring that drinking water supplies from surface sources be filtered -- so long as the water remains pure. 
 With that exemption set to expire this year, attention has focused on the purity of the water and persistent problems the city has had with turbidity, or cloudiness, caused by sediments in the water. 
 City officials, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, and several members of Congress all oppose the Belleayre project, saying it would cause too much runoff to drain into the city's reservoirs. 
 In May, the regional administrator for the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Alan J. Steinberg, made clear that he felt the project should be cut in half, and all development eliminated from the eastern edge of the site, which is about 120 miles north of Manhattan. 
 Mr. Steinberg toured the site yesterday to help him assess the effect of the developer's proposed reduction. In a telephone interview after the tour, he said that despite having publicly stated his view that development should be allowed only on the western side of the site, it was a ''matter of fairness'' to consider the new proposal thoroughly before reaching any decision about its appropriateness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RESORTS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SKIING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); LAWYERS (50%) Water

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; Dean Gitter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Belleayre Mountain (NY); Catskills (NYS Area); New York City; Shandaken (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



570 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate When It Fizzles

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Read Between All Those For-Sale Signs'' (Week in Review, Aug. 27) speculated that a real estate crash is unlikely. One of the pivotal reasons used to illustrate this unlikelihood is that ''homes seem to be much less vulnerable to crashes than other assets, because people rarely sell them in a panic.'' 
That is exactly why I feel a real estate crash is inevitable.
 The rapid rise of prices has changed the primary function of houses and apartments from homes to investments in many people's eyes. The more this shift takes hold, the more likely a crash. 
 People may tend to hold on to their homes in a panic, but if history has taught us anything, it is that people all too often do sell off investments in such a way.

Noel Dinneen
New York, Aug. 27, 2006

To the Editor:
 Living on wishful thinking can have disastrous consequences, yet borrowing against an uncertain future did not bother scores of multiple bidders and self-styled real estate speculators.
 Incomprehensibly, in the last three years, the more prices leaped, the greater the interest in dubious properties by average-salary earners. Homeowners and brokers were not to blame for the escalation, but a delusional feeding frenzy that seemed to infect otherwise sane people everywhere. 
 Now we face an overdue and welcome reality check, not a bursting bubble or a crash. 

Laura Lombardo Zirulnik
Scotch Plains, N.J., Aug. 28, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Housing Gets Ugly,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 25):
 While a downturn in the economy is not a good thing -- even for environmentalists like myself -- there is a lesson in all this for the building industry. It needs to learn from its counterparts in other major industries who are beginning to see ''greener.''
 We have a limited amount of land and clearly cannot continue building larger and larger houses on more and more green spaces. Also, we cannot continue to erect buildings that will produce more and more carbon dioxide.
 Our ancestors knew how to build on an island. Our cities need to become more ''Manhattans,'' yet with green spaces as well.
 Tearing up the countryside, using virgin materials and making inefficient structures is not the way to go for the housing industry, if it is to make a contribution to sustainability. 

Dorothee E. Krahn
Silver Spring, Md., Aug. 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Dorothee E Krahn; Paul Krugman; Laura Lombardo Zirulnik; Noel Dinneen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



571 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A City Plots Its Future by Reaching Into the Past

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
Arts-minded visitors to the Berkshire Hills in western Massachusetts may think of Pittsfield as little more than an urban speed bump on the way to Stockbridge, Williamstown and the glories of Tanglewood and Jacob's Pillow.
 But the city is betting that, with the help of a long-neglected jewel of a theater, it too can make a place for itself on the region's arts map. After a two-year, $22 million restoration, the century-old Colonial Theater will reopen tonight for a year-round season that kicks off with a week's visit by a touring company of ''Rent.'' After that, there are more than 40 other events scheduled for the rest of the year.
 For years, few outsiders were aware of what lay behind the neo-Classical yellow-brick facade on the Route 7 commercial strip. But inside was a grand Broadway-style theater, a Gilded Age monument designed by J. B. McElfatrick, who designed dozens of New York theaters, including the Theater Republic (now the New Victory) on 42nd Street. 
 From its opening in 1903 to the early 30's, the house, which seated about 1,400, was a regular stop for the likes of Sarah Bernhardt, the Barrymores, Rachmaninoff, Will Rogers and John Philip Sousa. Anna Pavlova danced by, as did the Ziegfeld Follies (100 strong). 
 In 1937, the Colonial was converted into a movie palace, but by 1952 it had gone dark. It and was saved from demolition only because a local businessman, George Miller, bought it and housed his paint business inside. 
 The idea of transforming the city into a cultural center received a boost in 1998, when Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the first lady, visited the Colonial as part of a ''Save America's Treasures'' tour. 
 ''Her visit said, 'You have a national treasure -- it's worth fighting for,' '' said John Bissell, a senior vice president at the Greylock Federal Credit Union and a prominent figure in the move to revitalize Pittsfield. 
 In 2002, the city commissioned a study on the potential economic benefits of restoring the theater. The study, led by Stephen Sheppard, an economics professor at Williams College, forecast $2 million a year in direct economic benefits to Pittsfield and an increase in local property values of at least $23 million. 
 That study ''quantified what we felt instinctively, that the theater would indeed make economic sense,'' said James M. Ruberto, Pittsfield's mayor and a major force behind the renovation. 
 After Mrs. Clinton's visit and the study, of course, came the fund-raising. Ultimately, some $7 million came from donations, the rest from city, state and federal grants and tax credits.
 ''I have been amazed at the amount of money given to the Colonial,'' said Gary Scarafoni, a retired banker who is now the theater's president. 
 The theater itself was a shambles, said Tom Johnson of Martinez & Johnson, the Washington architects responsible for the restoration. In the half-darkness of the balcony, ''you could see the plaster detailing,'' big pieces of which were starting to fall. 
 Now, the curves and curlicues of the interior ornamentation -- which Mr. Johnson describes as eclectic neo-Classical -- have been restored to their original glory.
 But the renovation remains a gamble. David W. Fleming, recently hired as the theater's executive director, said that the Colonial would have an annual overhead of at least $750,000 and expected artists' fees, marketing and stagehand costs collectively to fall in the same range.
 That means, said Mr. Fleming, who previously ran the Grand Opera House in Wilmington, Del., and the New Brunswick Cultural Center in New Jersey, that the theater will need to fill about 60 percent of its seats if it is to pay half its annual expenses from ticket sales.
 ''Ideally,'' he said, ''I'd like to see us cover more like 65 percent'' -- with the rest coming from annual donations. 
 He said he hoped that within a few years, the theater, now reconfigured to seat 810, would be active 200 nights a year, with events that appeal to all tastes and budgets. This season's offerings include low-priced fare like Cirkus Inferno and the Inflatable Theater Company.
 The theater will have to rely in part on out-of-town audiences. The city's population, roughly 57,000 in 1960, fell steadily after General Electric, which once employed more than 10,000 workers here, gradually shut down most all its operations, paring the workforce to less than 1,000. The population is now 43,000 and is projected to fall considerably further in the next two decades.
 The city is betting that, if it can transform itself into an arts center, it can reverse that slide. It took a first step in that direction when the highly regarded Barrington Stage Company moved into a renovated 1912 music hall in downtown Pittsfield this month after working for years out of a high school auditorium in Sheffield, in the southwest corner of the state. The company plans spring, summer and fall productions. 
 Mr. Bissell of the credit union argues that people will come, not only to visit but also to live. He cites the rise of the local real estate market since the Colonial restoration project was announced. 
 ''When new businesses come to town,'' he added, ''every single one cites the rebirth of the Colonial as a primary reason why they chose this location.''
 Such optimism is not universal. Jonathan Levine, publisher of The Pittsfield Gazette, said that while he was ''thrilled to have a renovated theater,'' he questioned the business projections behind it. 
 ''They've made all these economic development promises,'' Mr. Levine said, ''and there is no way, with their current programming, they can achieve those goals.'' 
 But the Colonial can boast of something that half of every Broadway audience can only dream about. The theater bought an abutting property that will house, in addition to the main entrance, a gigantic ladies' room.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A carved cherub detail in the Colonial Theater in Pittsfield, Mass. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Before the theater was restored, some parts of the interior were in such bad condition that pieces of plaster had fallen off the walls. (Photo by Colonial Theater)
Some officials of Pittsfield, Mass. are optimistic that the restoration of the Colonial Theater, which cost $22 million and took two years to complete, will help revitalize the city. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)
 The theater, built in 1903, became a movie house in the 1930's. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (79%); FILM (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (63%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (61%); EXECUTIVES (61%); THEATER (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Theater; Theater ; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Theaters (Buildings)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsfield (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



572 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Cruise Gets First Funds For Projects

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Tom Cruise showed Hollywood the money yesterday, with his independent production company announcing that it had lined up financing from a wealthy sports entrepreneur.
 Hollywood's reaction? That's a good start, but show us more. 
Less than a week after Paramount Pictures and Tom Cruise ended their 14-year relationship, his company announced a deal with First and Goal L.L.C., an investor group headed by Daniel M. Snyder, owner of the Washington Redskins and chairman of the Six Flags amusement parks. The two-year arrangement can be renewed for a longer term, both sides said. 
 The financing is well under $10 million, according to Paula Wagner, Mr. Cruise's business partner. Under the deal, Cruise-Wagner Productions will receive funds to cover overhead and develop new projects. The agreement would still require the new production company to raise money for films from other private investors or the Hollywood studios, Ms. Wagner said. 
 Although she suggested last week that hedge funds were eager to invest up to $100 million in the company, it appeared yesterday that such financing had not yet materialized. 
 Harold Vogel, author of ''Entertainment Industry Economics,'' said of the deal, ''This is a step forward, but it is not definitive because they will still need significant funds for production.''
 Several media executives wondered yesterday why Mr. Cruise had not simply put up the money himself for overhead and development. 
 In a telephone interview, Ms. Wagner said: ''We wanted to be in business with entrepreneurs. We wanted a focus on future brand and marketing opportunities. This deal is about access and not about money.'' 
 Along with Mr. Snyder, First and Goal consists of Mark Shapiro, chief executive of Six Flags, and Dwight C. Schar, chairman of NVR, a home builder. Mr. Schar is a longtime investor with Mr. Snyder.
 Mr. Shapiro will supervise the investment. ''Dan has been vocal about being in the entertainment business,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''And we bring marketing expertise.'' 
 Mr. Snyder started Snyder Communications in 1988, took it public eight years later and sold it to the Havas agency in 2000 for $2.2 billion. He bought the Washington Redskins in 1999. 
 First and Goal and Cruise/Wagner were brought together by the Creative Artists Agency, which represents Mr. Cruise, Mr. Shapiro said. 
 Outside money has been flowing into Hollywood as people who have made big fortunes develop an appetite to be in the movie business. 
 Last week, Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, which owns Paramount Pictures, said he was cutting ties with Mr. Cruise because his unpredictable behavior -- like speaking out publicly against psychiatry and jumping on Oprah Winfrey's couch -- was affecting his results at the box office. 
 Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner, though, insisted that they had already decided to start their own company and strike out on their own before Mr. Redstone made the announcement.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Cruise in Tokyo in June. Last week, the 14-year relationship between him and Paramount ended. (Photo by Kiyoshi Ota/Reuters)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%) Motion Pictures; Finances; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: NVR INC (81%); HAVAS SA (66%); VIACOM INC (58%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (57%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%) Cruise-Wagner Productions; First and Goal LLC; Paramount Pictures

TICKER: NVR (NYSE) (81%); HAV (PAR) (66%); VIA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING FOR-SALE BUILDERS (81%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (81%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (57%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (94%); SUMNER REDSTONE (57%); OPRAH WINFREY (57%) Tom Cruise; Daniel Snyder; Paula Wagner; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



573 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

INSURER SETTLES LAWSUIT -- Prudential Financial, the life insurance company, agreed to pay $600 million to settle charges with federal and state regulators that one of its units engaged in inappropriate mutual fund trading. [Page C1.]

TOM CRUISE LINES UP FINANCING -- Tom Cruise announced that he had lined up financing for his independent production company with the help of Daniel M. Snyder, owner of the Washington Redskins and chairman of the Six Flags amusement park company. [C1.] 


BMW AND CLEMSON, PARTNERS -- BMW's $10 million gift to Clemson University in 2002, the largest cash donation ever received by the school, has led to some unusual privileges for the company, including a hand in developing a course of study. [C1.]

A MODERN DUST BOWL -- A severe drought has slowly sizzled a large swath of the plains states, tumbling farmers and ranchers into conditions they say are comparable to the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. [A15.]

INQUIRY OVER SALES TO IRAN -- An investigation into the Mitutoyo Corporation, a Japanese manufacturer suspected of exporting sophisticated measuring devices to Libya's former atomic weapons program, has increasingly focused on whether the company also sold similar equipment to Iran, a government official said. [A12.]

GRIM FORECAST ON GAS PRICES -- Chrysler, which depends more heavily on sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles than any other Detroit automaker, said it expected gasoline prices to remain at $3 to $4 a gallon for the rest of this decade. The comments by Thomas M. LaSorda, chief executive of Chrysler, represent the first time one of the Detroit automakers has issued a specific forecast on gas prices. [C1.]

AOL ACCUSED OF 'BADWARE' -- Dealing yet another blow to AOL, a leading software watchdog group warned users away from AOL's free client software on the grounds that it displayed characteristics consistent with ''badware,'' or software that installs components without clearly informing users. [C3.]

DEAL FOR TEQUILA MAKER -- The Brown-Forman Corporation, the Kentucky company known for its Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort liquor, said it was buying the Mexican tequila company Casa Herradura for $876 million. [C3.]

BIG BOARD SUIT DISMISSED -- A New York State judge has dismissed a lawsuit brought by the former New York Stock Exchange chairman and chief executive, Richard A. Grasso, against H. Carl McCall, a former Big Board director who once ran New York State's finances. [C3.]

KINDER MORGAN AGREES TO SALE -- Kinder Morgan Inc., one of the largest pipeline operators in the country, said that it had agreed to a sweetened buyout offer of $15 billion from a group of investors led by its chairman and co-founder, Richard D. Kinder. [C3.]

THE OPERA'S NEW STAGE -- For 30 years, the Metropolitan Opera has wrinkled its elegant nose at advertising campaigns, preferring discreet sales tactics like direct mail and phone solicitations. But next week, it is entering the mass marketing fray with ads in the most conventional places: telephone kiosks, lamp posts, subway entrances and the sides of city buses. Advertising. [C1.]

WAL-MART CAMPAIGN COMMERCIAL -- Wal-Mart, under attack now from unions and prominent Democrats, introduced a marketing campaign that closely resembles the television advertisements used by political candidates. [C3.]

FERVOR OVER METALS -- The merger activity involving companies that pull metals like copper, nickel, zinc and iron ore from the earth has the mark of a new-economy fervor. Market Place. [C4.]

LOANS FOR THE PHILIPPINES -- Earlier this summer, as markets around the region were still struggling to recover from a sell-off by global investors, the Philippines pulled off something seemingly unthinkable: it persuaded international investors to lend it $750 million. [C4.]

HIGH HOPES FOR SKYPE -- EBay is hoping its new partnership with Google will help it find new ways to make money from Skype, its Internet calling service. [C5.]

ARTICLE UNAVAILABLE IN BRITAIN -- The New York Times made an article about a terror investigation unavailable to Web readers in Britain to avoid violating British law. [C7.]

NEW PUBLISHER FOR FREE PAPER -- A new publisher has been named for the free newspaper amNew York, the paper said. [C7.]

JETS ON DEMAND -- Magnum Jet, an air taxi operator, plans early next year to make planes available for hire on demand in regional route sectors -- starting in Texas and the Southwest, eventually expanding to the New York area south to Florida, then to the Pacific Coast. [C8.]

INSURANCE EXECUTIVE DIES -- Brig. Gen. Robert F. McDermott, a former Air Force Academy dean who became chairman of the insurance giant USAA and a leading advocate for auto safety after retiring from military service, died at age 86. [B6.]

ONLINE

DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

VENTURING ON THE WEB -- The Business Navigator used by the newsroom of The Times for forays into the Web can be found at nytimes.com/technology.

SMALL BUSINESS IN NEW ORLEANS -- One year after Hurricane Katrina, many small businesses may be open across New Orleans, but times are tough and their survival is in doubt. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks DaimlerChrysler's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); LIFE INSURANCE (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); DISTILLERIES (76%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (76%); OPERA (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); DROUGHT (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); JUDGES (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PICKUP TRUCKS (67%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BROWN-FORMAN CORP (81%); KINDER MORGAN INC (80%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (58%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEMSON UNIVERSITY (57%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%)

TICKER: BF.B (NYSE) (81%); BF.A (NYSE) (81%); KMI (NYSE) (80%); PRU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS316998 ALL OTHER LEATHER GOOD & ALLIED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (81%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (80%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (80%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (72%); RICHARD D KINDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



574 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Seeks to Open More Jobs in Film Production to Minorities and Women

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration is seeking to expand job and training opportunities for minorities and women in the off-screen crews that form the backbone of the thriving film and television production industry in New York City.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said that the effort is intended to continue the work of a City Council task force on diversity in the film industry, which Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn established early this year. She acted after some council members complained that minority groups and women were underrepresented in the often well-paying production jobs even as the film industry was being aided by city and state tax breaks.
Now the administration is putting together what it calls a working group that ''will have a goal of developing specific recommendations in six months'' for increasing job and training opportunities in the industry for minorities and women, said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding. The group is to include representatives from production companies and labor unions. 
 Advocates for increasing such opportunities said a group having the mayor's imprimatur would signal the strength of the city's commitment on the issue. Ms. Quinn has expressed support for the plan.
 Mr. Doctoroff, in an interview, said the Bloomberg administration saw the planned group as a ''joint effort with the Council.'' But he and Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn, the chairwoman of the Council's task force, said it was not clear whether the task force would continue or would be subsumed by the new group. Like the administration's planned group, the Council's panel includes film company and union representatives.
 Mr. Doctoroff said the group would resemble one that Mayor Bloomberg formed last year to recommend ways of widening access for minorities and women to well-paying unionized construction jobs. Those recommendations included steps that the city's construction unions adopted to increase the number of minorities and women in the unions' apprenticeship programs. 
 Mr. Doctoroff said it was too early to guess what steps the group on film and television production might suggest. 
 The jobs range from entry-level production-assistant work -- which can include tasks like running errands and making sure that residents do not wander onto a set in the street -- to skilled occupations like camera operator, electrical and sound technician, and scenic, wardrobe and makeup specialist.
 Most of these jobs are unionized, and ''the bulk are really good working-people's jobs,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. While wages vary according to the skills required and the individual's experience, the State Labor Department has estimated that experienced sound engineering technicians who worked steadily last year earned more than $70,000, and camera operators nearly $50,000. 
 Mr. Doctoroff said that given a lack of demographic data on the industry's production ranks in the city, ''I don't think we know for sure'' whether minority groups and women are seriously underrepresented. ''But we believe we can do better,'' he said, especially in relation to the higher-paying jobs in the industry. 
 But Ms. James, whose district includes Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, said she had often heard ''complaints that when you go to film locations, you see a paucity of women and people of color'' in the production ranks.
 She said she and other council members had brought up the matter in 2004 at committee hearings on a bill, which later passed, to add city tax breaks to state tax incentives for movie and television companies to film in New York.
 Ms. James recalled that at the hearings, she asked the companies' representatives ''what statistics they had on the employment of people of color and women'' in production jobs. 
 ''They said they didn't know; that they don't keep those numbers,'' she recalled. Then early this year after hearings on another bill to extend the city tax incentives, she said, she expressed her concerns to Ms. Quinn, who then formed the task force. 
 At the panel's urging, Ms. James said, the city now gathers information on the demographics of production crews. The application for the program's tax credit requires a company to provide the number of minorities and women employed on the production, she said. The information gathered, she said, will provide a database of such employment, and ''we'll be able to see changes from year to year.''
 Film and television production in the city provides work for 100,000 people and contributes $5 billion a year to the city's economy, according to Katherine Oliver, commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. In January, the office began a program to train city residents for entry-level production-assistant jobs. Last year across the city, Mayor Bloomberg said recently, ''the number of shooting days hit an all-time high of 31,570, a 35 percent increase over 2004 and double that of 2002.''
 A spokesman for the largest union representing the industry's production workers -- the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts -- said that officials of the union were not available to provide their views on the administration's plan. But Ms. James said that representatives of several New York-area union locals were members of the City Council's task force.
 Sylvia Kinard-Thompson, a member of the board of the New York Production Alliance, which includes film companies and unions, said minorities and women ''absolutely are'' underrepresented in the production ranks. But she said she found the unions to be ''pretty responsive'' to recent calls for change. 
 Ms. Kinard-Thompson said the underrepresentation was a legacy of ''how the industry evolved,'' with many people having had a leg up on finding their first jobs because their ''grandfathers were in the union and their fathers were.'' And on small productions that do not use union members, she said, ''it's still who you know'' that often determines who works on a film.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tamu-Ra Bakr, center, of Brooklyn, and other members of a production crew worked last week on the film, ''American Gangster,'' in Harlem. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CITIES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (64%) Motion Pictures; Television; Women; Minorities (US); Labor; Organized Labor; Motion Pictures

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Joseph P Fried; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



575 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Star of the Right Loses His Base At the Border 

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: MUNCIE, Ind. 

 BODY:
He supports tax cuts and the war in Iraq. He opposes stem cell research and the Medicare drug plan. He is a master of his movement's medium, talk radio. Jesus Christ is his personal savior and Ronald Reagan his political idol.
 Conjure what might be called the perfect conservative, and chances are he would look a lot like Representative Mike Pence, the Indiana Republican who in just three terms has turned 100 House allies into a vanguard and himself into one of his party's rising stars.
Or that was the case until this spring when he sought compromise in the rancorous immigration debate. His complicated plan would strengthen border security and send illegal immigrants home, but let most of them quickly return. Since then, Mr. Pence -- named last year's Man of the Year by the conservative weekly Human Events -- has looked to some conservatives like this year's Benedict Arnold. They say he has lent his conservative prestige to a form of liberal amnesty.
 Phyllis Schlafly of the Eagle Forum called his plan ''a sick joke.'' Richard A. Viguerie, the direct-mail pioneer, threatened to punish politicians who supported it. Pat Buchanan, editor of The American Conservative, likened the betrayal to a scene from ''The Godfather.'' 
 Perpetually genial, prematurely gray, Mr. Pence, 47, said, ''I was taken aback by the level of invective.''
 ''It's a test of the character of the conservative movement in the 21st century,'' he said. ''We are either going to prove that we believe in the ideas enshrined on the Statue of Liberty or the American people will go looking elsewhere.''
 Mr. Pence -- who bills himself as ''a Christian, a conservative and a Republican, in that order'' -- pushed the plan on a recent trip across his district. He quoted the Bible. He quoted Ronald Reagan. He stood sweating in a tomato field beside Mexican workers. And when asked why an Indiana congressman was focused on the border, he responded with a ready phrase: ''April 11, 1923.''
 That is when his Irish grandfather, Richard Michael Cawley, a Chicago bus driver, arrived on Ellis Island. ''We were especially close,'' said Mr. Pence, who added that he sees his grandfather's thrift and hard work in today's immigrant generation.
 Some members of the Muncie Chamber of Commerce had doubts. Some worried about cost. Some worried about compliance. But several complimented him for tackling a tough cause. ''It is the greatest privilege of my life to represent you,'' he said.
 Though he comes from a family of Irish Catholic Democrats -- his father ran a string of gas stations -- Mr. Pence joined an evangelical fellowship group at Hanover College, drawn less by theological issues than by its more personal style of worship. His religion pulled him to the right. ''I had a hard way of reconciling my commitment to biblical truth with the national Democratic Party's commitment to abortion on demand,'' he said.
 His wife, Karen, teaches at a religious school, and sends out e-mail messages asking for the prayers of his supporters. ''Please pray for the Holy Spirit to speak through him at the bbq,'' a recent message read.
 Mr. Pence, two years out of law school, made his first Congressional run in 1988 and lost narrowly to a longtime Democratic incumbent, Phil Sharp. He tried again two years later, in a negative campaign that won him just 42 percent of the vote. Mr. Pence was devastated. 
 ''What was most painful to me was the bile in my throat over how I had responded,'' he said. ''My faith says if someone strikes you on the cheek, turn the other. My response, after being attacked by my opponent, was to empty the silos on this guy.''
 Mr. Pence delivered an unusual self-rebuke in an article called ''Confessions of a Negative Campaigner.'' Then he ran a conservative research group, the Indiana Policy Review Foundation, and was host of a talk radio show in Indianapolis. The seat opened up again in 2000 and Mr. Pence squeaked in -- with civility, he said.
 ''I'm a conservative, but I'm not mad about it,'' he often says.
 Arriving in Washington, he was dismayed at conservatives' support for government expansion. In 2001, he was one of 34 Republicans to oppose the No Child Left Behind Act, which expanded federal involvement in education. In 2003, he was one of 25 who opposed the Medicare drug benefit. ''I was voting against big conservative government before it was cool,'' he said.
 Congressional leaders hinted at reprisals, but the base applauded, especially after a 2004 speech in which he warned that the movement was drifting into ''the dangerous and uncharted waters of big government.'' 
 Among those won over was Paul Weyrich, a fixture of movement conservatism. He said Mr. Pence had strong appeal among supporters of four major conservative causes: limited government, free enterprise, strong defense and traditional values.
 ''Nobody is perfect, but he comes pretty close,'' Mr. Weyrich said. ''He is what I've been waiting for in terms of leadership.'' 
 Last year, Mr. Pence became head of the Republican Study Committee, a conservative caucus. He quickly expanded its profile, and, rivals note, his own. Mr. Pence, unlike many conservatives, courts the news media.
 His influence was apparent last fall after Hurricane Katrina, when Washington was suddenly filled with talk of new aid for the needy. Concerned about the cost, Mr. Pence's group replied with Operation Offset, a plan to cut $500 billion over 10 years in programs that included Medicaid, tax credits for the poor, and care for people with AIDS.
 It outraged the leadership, which accused him of showboating, and failed to pass. But it quickly changed the political dynamics, from starting programs to cutting them. Five months later, with Mr. Pence nearby, President Bush signed a bill that cut $39 billion over five years. ''I think Operation Offset had something to do with that, though I would never boast of that,'' Mr. Pence said.
 Edwin J. Feulner Jr., president of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative Washington group, said Mr. Pence ''has really been central to the revival of principled conservatism in the House.'' Admirers have already begun a ''Mike Pence for President'' Web site. 
 But some colleagues grumble about what they call his self-promotion, and critics on the left see harshness behind the geniality. Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal group, said that while the Republican effort was billed as deficit reduction, it in fact made the deficit larger. That is because the reductions were paired with $70 billion of tax cuts, mostly for the very well-to-do. ''This is Robin Hood in reverse,'' Mr. Greenstein said. 
 Barry Welsh, a Democrat challenging Mr. Pence this fall, is a Methodist minister who said, ''I find it hypocritical that he claims such Christianity'' while ''cutting the benefits of those who need them.'' 
 Mr. Pence argued that tax cuts help the poor by revving the economy. That may eventually prove true, but despite large tax cuts the poverty rate has risen in each of the last four years.
 ''That's anecdotal,'' Mr. Pence said in an interview last fall. Then he offered an anecdote -- a story President Reagan told about a pipe fitter pleased to see the rich prosper, ''because I've never been hired by a poor man.'' 
 With Republicans worried about losing control of Congress in the midterm elections this fall, some moderates say Mr. Pence's wing of the party has pushed it toofar to the right; conservatives like Mr. Pence say that in accepting what they call big government, the party has not hewed to its conservative principles enough.
 When Mr. Pence weighed in on immigration this spring, the issue, like much of the Republican agenda, was stalled and Republicans were deeply split. The House had passed a tough bill focusing on border security alone. The Senate had passed a broader measure that included a guest worker program and a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here. 
 Mr. Pence tried to offer something to everyone. He included provisions to bolster the borders. After two years, if the government certified that those changes were in place, a guest worker program would begin. Those here unlawfully would have to leave the country and apply at job-placement centers. By requiring re-entry, Mr. Pence argues, the plan avoids amnesty and respects the rule of law. The guest worker visas could be renewed, with a chance of citizenship after 17 years.
 Mr. Bush sent an approving signal by inviting Mr. Pence to an Oval Office meeting. And the proposal won a Senate co-sponsor in Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas. 
 The idea, at best, faces an uphill fight when Congress reconvenes next week. But Tamar Jacoby, a fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute who sees promise in Mr. Pence's approach, said that without him, ''the issue would be dead.'' 
 So his critics fear. Team America, a conservative political action committee, now has a feature on its Web site called ''Pence Watch.'' Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, said the plan would encourage more illegal immigration and undermine cultural cohesion. But David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, credits Mr. Pence's ''courage to think outside the box.''
 Does he worry his conservative image has been tarnished? 
 ''I'm not completely immune to that thought,'' Mr. Pence said, en route to a photo op in an Orestes, Ind., tomato field. Then he quoted from Micah in the Old Testament: ''Do justice and love kindness.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Mike Pence has advocated a more lenient approach to illegal immigrants than many of his fellow conservatives have. (Photo by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: EAGLE FORUM (55%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%) Jason Deparle; Mike (Rep) Pence; Phyllis Schlafly; Richard Viguerie; Patrick J Buchanan; George W (Pres) Bush; Kay Bailey (Sen) Hutchison

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



576 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2648 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Makes Up for Lost Time in Battling AIDS

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: RWINKWAVU, Rwanda 

 BODY:
Bill Clinton worked the crowd of AIDS survivors, clasping the outstretched hands of children alive because of the AIDS medicines his foundation donated.
 Inside the rural hospital here that he recently helped renovate, where Rwandans were hunted down and killed during the genocide he regrets he didn't try to stop as president, Mr. Clinton heard people once skeletal from AIDS tell of their resurrections to robust health.
Since he left office more than five years ago at age 54, one of the youngest former presidents ever, Mr. Clinton has made a lasting mark in a cause that he came to only late in his presidency: fighting the AIDS pandemic across Africa and the world. 
 Few public figures in America have spawned as much speculation about what motivates them as Mr. Clinton. Abroad, even fewer inspire the affectionate reception Mr. Clinton received as he raced across seven African countries in eight days in July. Crowds at roadsides and in hospitals wanted to touch him -- and he obliged by shaking hands, kissing babies and hugging people with AIDS. 
 Here on Mr. Clinton's fourth visit to Rwanda, it was clear the efforts by his foundation had personal meaning. He said he was sorry his administration failed to intervene during the 1994 genocide. ''The United States just blew it in Rwanda,'' he said flatly. Paul Kagame, Rwanda's president, said he had accepted Mr. Clinton's repeated apologies.
 But on this trip, Mr. Clinton seemed anything but a man tormented by guilt. Rather, he reveled in his role as a private citizen championing people with AIDS. 
 ''The reason I do this work I do is that I really care about politics and people and public policy,'' he said in one of several interviews, scornfully dismissing questions about whether his global AIDS work is a form of redemption for what he failed to accomplish on the issue as president, or for the Monica Lewinsky scandal. ''I'm 60 years old now, and I'm not running for anything, so I don't have to be polite anymore,'' he said. ''I think it's all a bunch of hokum,'' he added, calling such speculation psychobabble. 
 ''I have never met anybody who spent all their time talking about everybody's motives who at the end of their life could talk about very many lives they had saved,'' he said.
 Mr. Clinton was adamant that he had done all he could about global AIDS with a Congress hostile to foreign aid, though he conceded that his administration fought too long to protect the patent rights of pharmaceutical companies against countries trying to make or import cheaper AIDS medicines. 

'Everyone Was Worried'
 After he left office, Mr. Clinton faced some skepticism as he took up the cause of people with AIDS dying faraway deaths in poor countries. His administration, which sought more resources to combat AIDS domestically, had a far weaker claim to leadership on AIDS worldwide. 
 When doctors specializing in public health met him at the William J. Clinton Foundation in Harlem in the fall of 2002, Howard Hiatt, the former dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, bluntly asked Mr. Clinton why those present should expect that ''you'll be able to accomplish now what you didn't undertake in your presidency -- an attack on this plague?'' 
 ''Everyone was worried,'' said Richard Marlink, who headed Harvard's AIDS Institute. ''Is this a campaign with photo ops and press releases or a long-term commitment?'' 
 In the years since, doctors at the forefront of AIDS treatment have worked with Mr. Clinton. Dr. Marlink volunteered to help Mr. Clinton's foundation in South Africa. Dr. Hiatt, who serves on the board of Partners in Health, a nonprofit group that works with Mr. Clinton in Rwanda, said the former president ''has really perceived the seriousness of the problem.'' 
 Mr. Clinton and his foundation have undertaken projects with two dozen developing countries, raising money to post nurses in rural clinics in Kenya, mustering experts to train hospital managers in Ethiopia and buying drugs for thousands of sick children, among other things.
 His foundation also has negotiated steep cuts in the price of AIDS medicines through deals with drug companies that cover more than 400,000 patients in dozens of countries, helping propel momentum for treatment of the destitute. 
 Dr. Bernard Pecoul, who led a campaign for access to medicines for Doctors Without Borders from 1998 to 2003, credited Mr. Clinton and his foundation for showing independence from the politically powerful drug industry and helping to accelerate the decline in prices for generic AIDS medicines in developing countries.
 ''They have been very clever in supporting generic policy in the United States, a country where it's not easy,'' he said. ''And sometimes they've been even more courageous than the United Nations system, which is under pressure from member states.''
 The Clinton foundation's budget last year was $30 million, raised from private donors. Mr. Clinton, who oversees its operations full time, has plunged into many causes, from childhood obesity to tsunami relief to global warming, but he has made his most substantive contribution on AIDS. 
 He said Rwanda was one of the first countries he chose to work in because ''they had a really good chance to dig out of the hole and I wanted to help them do it.''
 For years, he tried to coax Dr. Paul Farmer, known for his work caring for the poor in remote, rural Haiti, to recreate his model of AIDS treatment in Africa, the heart of the epidemic.
 Last year, Dr. Farmer and the group he co-founded, Partners in Health, arrived in Rwinkwavu. With support from the Clinton Foundation and others, he has transformed a dilapidated facility that lacked even a doctor into a thriving rural hospital. 
 More than 1,500 people have been put on AIDS medicines here. Reproducing the pioneering model used in Haiti, Dr. Farmer has community workers, many of them peasants, deliver antiretroviral medicines to people with AIDS every day, minimizing reliance on scarce doctors and nurses.
 Like most international leaders and American advocates for people with AIDS in the 1990's, critics say, Mr. Clinton's efforts on global AIDS did not match the epic scale of the human tragedy as it unfolded across Africa and millions died and were orphaned. 
 In recent years, the fight against AIDS has leapt onto the world stage, claimed by Mr. Clinton and his Republican successor, George W. Bush.
 There is a measure of irony in this. Since 2003, Mr. Bush has marshaled billions of dollars in American assistance for a global assault on the disease, financing lifesaving treatment for hundreds of thousands of people with AIDS. Yet because of his foreign policies, notably the war in Iraq, he is often met by protests when he travels abroad, while Mr. Clinton is warmly embraced across the developing world.
 ''George Bush has actually delivered more resources, but Clinton is ten times more popular in Africa,'' said Princeton Lyman, who was American ambassador to South Africa under Mr. Clinton. ''That's because, just like he does everywhere, he portrays that sense that he cares.''
 On his recent tour of Africa -- his fifth since 2001 -- Mr. Clinton showed a remarkable ability to establish a human connection with people he met. 
 In Johannesburg, Mr. Clinton and a frail Nelson Mandela, about to turn 88, clutched each other's hands like a long-lost son and his beloved father. 
 En route to the airport in Lilongwe, Malawi, where crowds of people strained to catch a glimpse of him, Mr. Clinton suddenly halted the motorcade, conducted an impromptu interview in the middle of the road, then plunged into a throng of young men reaching out to touch him. 
 At a hospital in Mafeteng, Lesotho, Mr. Clinton strolled into a sunny courtyard with 6-year-old Arriet Moeketsi, a little girl in a polka-dot dress. Arriet, who takes AIDS medicines donated by Mr. Clinton's foundation, trustingly leaned her face against the former president and never let go of his hands during a prolonged news conference. 
 Bill and Melinda Gates, the billionaire philanthropists, watched. Mr. Clinton had visited an AIDS project of theirs in Durban, South Africa, and they had come to Lesotho to see his work. When Mr. Clinton left the hospital with Arriet, a Clinton volunteer asked the Gateses to stay back so photographers could follow him. 
 The world's wealthiest couple seemed to take no offense. The two Bills, as they have been dubbed, have taken to doing high-profile AIDS advocacy events together, with Mr. Clinton bringing star power and Mr. Gates his deep pockets.
 ''He plays a unique role in shining a light on the problem,'' said Mr. Gates, after he made it into the courtyard.
 Mr. Clinton has come a long way on global AIDS. For most of his presidency, his trade office fought to protect the patent rights of pharmaceutical companies against attempts by developing countries to make or import cheaper generic medicines. ''I think it was wrong,'' he now says of that approach.
 During the first six years of his presidency, federal spending to fight AIDS worldwide stagnated at paltry levels, never topping $141 million. 
 But by his last budget, spending more than tripled to $540 million, but Mr. Clinton says that was far from enough. Even so, he contends that no one could have done better. 

The Role of Congress
 The Democrats controlled Congress for only his first two years in office, he pointed out, when ''everybody's obsession'' was the AIDS problem in America. After that, the Republican-dominated Congress that later supported Mr. Bush's $15 billion, five-year global AIDS plan fiercely resisted spending on foreign assistance. 
 ''Have you forgotten what I had in the Congress?'' he asked. ''That the Republican Congress spent all their time trying to trash me? 
 ''And the only reason they gave money to George Bush for AIDS is they wanted to have something they looked progressive on since they were cutting taxes for rich people like me,'' he said.
 Michael Gerson, who was a senior adviser to Mr. Bush on global health issues, noted that the Republican Congress was, in fact, open to persuasion that global AIDS was a spending priority. But he also said the issue had ripened by the time Mr. Bush was president. The price of antiretroviral drugs fell after Mr. Clinton left office, helping change the view that it was too costly and difficult to treat people in poor countries.
 But Mr. Gerson also said of the Clinton record: ''I don't believe they were visionary or pushed the system. I don't think they were thinking big.''
 The debate over whether Mr. Clinton missed a political opportunity to lead the charge on global AIDS years before Mr. Bush seized it is far from over.
 Greg Behrman, the author of ''The Invisible People: How the U.S. Has Slept Through the Global AIDS Pandemic, the Greatest Humanitarian Catastrophe of Our Time,'' offers a split verdict.
 ''There are two acts here,'' he said. ''Clinton's post-presidential leadership has been extraordinary. As president, though, the record is clear. Clinton was not a leader on global AIDS and the consequences have been devastating.''
 After he left office, Mr. Clinton considered his future with a keen eye on history, analyzing what former presidents had done. 
 He concluded that another former Southern governor, Jimmy Carter, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who is now recognized for his work on human rights, democracy and neglected diseases, was ''the only person who'd done anything that remotely resembled what I thought I could do.''
 From the start, Mr. Clinton had a host of issues on his agenda, but quickly found himself drawn into AIDS. He turned to his old friend Ira Magaziner, a fellow Rhodes scholar and corporate consultant who had managed the Clintons' failed health care reform effort. Mr. Magaziner has since led the foundation's AIDS program. 
 The two men discovered in 2002 that the Bahamas was paying $3,500 per person a year for generic AIDS drugs. ''I said, 'Ira, please find out why in the hell these people are paying $3,500 for $500 drugs,' '' Mr. Clinton said. 
 They learned the Bahamas was buying through middlemen, so the foundation helped the country purchase directly from Cipla, the Indian generic-drug manufacturer. ''So our first victory was a lay-down,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''All of a sudden, they could treat six times as many people for the same amount of money.''
 Opportunities proliferated, and Mr. Clinton's enthusiasm grew. 
 His name opened doors with generic drug makers. With growing demand for AIDS drugs already on the horizon, as well as the economies of scale that come with that, Mr. Magaziner took a team of volunteer consultants to India in 2003 to negotiate for lower prices. Companies opened their books. 
 ''The name Clinton in India holds more charisma and credibility than any other American name,'' said Dr. Yusuf K. Hamied, Cipla's chairman. 
 Through cost cutting, spurred by breakthrough talks with companies that supplied ingredients to the drug makers, the team got deals. Cipla, for example, halved the price of the most common AIDS triple-drug therapy, already declining due to competition, to $140 a person per year.
 Similarly, Mr. Clinton was able to use his relationships with political leaders, like President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, who had questioned whether H.I.V. caused AIDS. The country had not begun treating its people for the disease, though almost five million had been infected. ''He was getting killed in the global press about it,'' Mr. Clinton recalled.
 Mr. Clinton, who knew him from his own time as president, met with Mr. Mbeki in 2003 as one politician to another. ''I said, 'You know, I really want to help you, and as you know, I may be the only one of those involved in this work who's never been publicly critical of you,' '' Mr. Clinton said he told Mr. Mbeki. '' 'But this is something you have to do.' '' 
 Mr. Mbeki soon invited Mr. Clinton's foundation to help the country write a comprehensive treatment plan. South Africa now has more than 130,000 people on antiretroviral drugs, still far short of what critics say is needed.
 Since 2004, Mr. Clinton has campaigned to raise the profile of children with AIDS. A scant 20,000 children in the developing world were then getting drug treatment, while more than 500,000 a year were dying. The Clinton foundation has raised $4.4 million to buy drugs for 13,000 children, train health workers, renovate pediatric wings and pay for lab tests.
 ''Children are alive in numbers we couldn't have imagined a couple of years ago because of what he's done,'' said Peter McDermott, chief of H.I.V. and AIDS programs at Unicef.
 Mr. Clinton's ambitions seem to grow daily, and his foundation is now branching out in Africa from AIDS into poverty. As he relaxed one recent evening in a sumptuous, $2,260-a-night suite in Johannesburg, with zebra skin rugs underfoot (the lodgings provided to him gratis by a rich South African businessman who owned the hotel), he got excited just thinking about fertilizer.
 Mr. Magaziner has people riding trains and trucks that carry fertilizer to figure out why a commodity that should enable farmers to grow more food and avoid hunger costs so much in Africa. 
 ''You follow the trail!'' Mr. Clinton said. 
 Mr. Clinton was joined on his trip by Sir Tom Hunter, a Scottish entrepreneur who has promised to spend $100 million of his fortune in collaboration with the foundation, much of it on economic development. 
 ''Tom, where's Tom?'' Mr. Clinton called out excitedly as he chatted with representatives of a nonprofit group that promotes solar-powered lights during an event here in Rwinkwavu. 
 What if Rwanda could manufacture such lights locally? Mr. Clinton mused. Why not electrify villages so children can study at night? ''It might be possible to get a factory here that would serve all of central Africa!''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEDSIDE -- Nelson Mandela and Bill Clinton visited sick infants in Johannesburg.
RETURNING HEALTH -- A woman and her baby, who is H.I.V. positive but whose condition has been improving, rested at a hospital in Rwinkwavu, above. The facility is being financed in part by the Clinton Foundation, which works with Partners in Health, a nonprofit group credited with transforming the dilapidated outpost, which lacked even a doctor, into a thriving rural hospital. At left, John Gumiriza stood by a photo taken of him in 2005, before he started taking antiretroviral drugs, which have been provided to him and others at reduced cost. (Photographs by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 Bill Clinton spoke with a girl at a treatment center in Lesotho in July. The Africa trip was his fifth since 2001. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (98%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); RURAL HEALTH (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); PATENTS (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Children and Youth; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: Clinton, William J, Presidential Foundation

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%) Celia W Dugger; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); LESOTHO (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



577 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Blistering Drought Ravages Much Farmland on Plains

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: MITCHELL, S.D. 

 BODY:
With parts of South Dakota at its epicenter, a severe drought has slowly sizzled a large swath of the Plains States, leaving farmers and ranchers with conditions that they compare to those of the Dust Bowl of the 1930's.
 The drought has led to rare and desperate measures. Shrunken sunflower plants, normally valuable for seeds and oil, are being used as a makeshift feed for livestock. Despite soaring fuel costs, some cattle owners are hauling herds hundreds of miles to healthier feedlots. And many ranchers are pouring water into ''dugouts'' -- natural watering holes -- because so many of them (up to 90 percent in South Dakota, by one reliable estimate) have gone dry.
 Gov. Michael Rounds of South Dakota, who has requested that 51 of the state's 66 counties be designated a federal agricultural disaster area, recently sought unusual help from his constituents: he issued a proclamation declaring a week to pray for rain. 
 ''It's a grim situation,'' said Herman Schumacher, the owner of a livestock market in Herreid, S.D., a small town near the North Dakota line where 37,000 head of cattle were sold from May through July, compared with 7,000 in the corresponding three months last year. ''There's absolutely no grass in the pastures, and the water holes are all dried up. So a lot of people have no choice but to sell off their herds and get out of the business.''
 Drought experts say parts of the states most severely affected -- Nebraska, the Dakotas, Montana and Wyoming -- have been left in far worse shape because of recent history: several years of dry conditions, a winter with little snow and then, with moisture reserves in the soil long gone, a wave of record heat this summer. 
 By late August, rain had fallen several times in some areas, but Bob Hall, an extension crops specialist at South Dakota State University, said it amounted to ''a drip in a bucket.'' 
 ''The bottom line is that even if we got relief starting today, at this minute,'' Dr. Hall said, ''it would take a few years economically to recover.''
 As if earless, shriveled cornstalks were not enough, farmers and ranchers say they carry a sense that their counterparts elsewhere seem to be doing just fine, leaving them with what feels like an invisible disaster, unnoticed by the outside world. Some farmers in Midwestern states like Illinois, Indiana and Ohio, as well as some in the eastern sections of South Dakota and Nebraska, tell of a respectable growing season.
 Even here in Mitchell, about 70 miles west of Sioux Falls, some residents did not grasp the scope of the drought until the Corn Palace, this city's tourist-luring castlelike civic center wrapped in hundreds of thousands of ears of corn, announced that because there was not enough of the crop, it would not redecorate this year for the 2007 season.
 ''We don't have any record of anything like this happening before,'' said Mark Schilling, the director of the Corn Palace, a campy, 114-year-old landmark promoted on highway billboards with endless corn puns.
 ''But if there's not a crop, there's not a crop,'' Mr. Schilling said quietly.
 After weeks and weeks with little rain and high temperatures, one farmer, Terry Goehring, watched the mercury spike to 118 degrees in his Mound City, S.D., field one day in July. That was it. Mr. Goehring, who has farmed since 1978, sold half his 250 head of Angus cattle.
 ''There was no corn,'' he said. ''There was no hay. We had nothing. And in that moment, I knew there was no choice.''
 Climatologists with the National Drought Mitigation Center at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln said scientists deemed the weather conditions and its effects in the areas of the worst drought a once-in-50-years experience.
 In some cases, it has been worse than that. On July 15, a weather station in Perkins County, S.D., near North Dakota, recorded a temperature of 120 degrees. That matched the highest ever reported in the state since the start of such record-keeping in July 1936, said Brian Fuchs, a climatologist at the Nebraska center.
 Given such conditions, it is hardly a surprise that crop estimates are so gloomy. Steve Noyes, deputy director at the South Dakota field office of the government's National Agricultural Statistics Service, said the winter wheat crop here had shrunk by 43 percent from last year's; alfalfa hay is expected to be down by 35 percent; and 22 percent of pasture land is deemed ''very short,'' with 35 percent ''short,'' figures significantly worse than those of a year ago.
 For the most part, commodity prices have not been affected, said Greg Lardy, a beef cattle specialist at North Dakota State University. While the region affected is hard hit, Dr. Lardy said, it has not been large enough to leave a mark on prices, particularly since some other regions have experienced strong seasons. 
 A walk through the fields of David Gillen, whose family has farmed in White Lake, 35 miles west of Mitchell, since 1897, is a tour of a drought. While some fields have survived, others are not worth harvesting. There, corn that should have been lanky by now is short and yellow, and many stalks carry no ears: the pollination, which should have occurred at the end July, never happened at all, given the extreme heat.
 ''This is my favorite time to be out here looking at the fields,'' Mr. Gillen said. ''But there's nothing to see.''
 While the soybean fields may improve with the recent rains, it is too late for this year's corn, a circumstance that surely would have made the creators of the Corn Palace cringe.
 In 1892, the Corn Belt Real Estate Association decided it made sense to nail ears of corn to the side of the palace as a salute to the bounty that the region's soil could produce, and as a retort to those (including Lewis and Clark) who seemed to doubt that these seemingly wild lands could be farmed.
 So for years (and through three different palaces in Mitchell), annual themes (like the ''Space Age'' in 1969 and a ''Salute to Rodeo'' this year) have been captured in images made all of corn here, at a cost, in today's prices, of about $140,000 a year. But as this summer proceeded and the sun blazed on, the palace board nervously monitored the fields whose dramatically colored corn goes to the palace, waited for rain and consulted with an agronomist. 
 With fields of certain colors struggling, the board decided the murals it had planned for the 2007 theme, ''Everyday Heroes,'' could not be created, said Mr. Schilling, the palace's director. Wade Strand, the farmer who grows all of the palace's colored corn, took the news ''pretty hard,'' Mr. Schilling said. 
 Looking back, Mr. Strand said he had believed that he had grown enough corn. He said he had hoped the designs could be made without orange tone and shades of black and light red. ''But they felt that the colors I was missing were strategic to the theme,'' Mr. Strand said. 
 Mr. Schilling said he believed that the current murals would remain intact through a second year, though he acknowledged that they might fade a bit. The vulnerabilities now, he said, are the risks inherent in art, or anything, made of corn: the effects of birds and wind, sun and heat.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Corn Palace in Mitchell, S.D., wrapped in countless ears of corn, usually gets an annual themed makeover, like the one in 2005 that produced a bull-riding mural. But not this year, given a shriveled corn crop. (Photographs by Dave Eggen for The New York Times)Chart/Map: Chart/Map: ''Drought Conditions''The drought severity index is based on the water content of the top several feet of soil and reflects precipitation patterns for the past few months.Map of the United States highlighting the following drought severity:SevereModerateNo droughtMoistVery Moist(Sources by Pennsylvania State University
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); WEATHER (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (71%) Agriculture; Drought ; Livestock; Farmers; Prayers and Prayer Books; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: MIKE ROUNDS (73%) Monica Davey; Mike (Gov) Rounds

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (98%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) South Dakota; Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



578 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: The Falling Paycheck

 BODY:
After huddling with his economic team at Camp David this month, President Bush emerged from a meeting and, flanked by advisers -- including the secretaries of labor, commerce and the Treasury -- announced to reporters, ''Things are good for American workers.'' 
 The comment is preposterous. As The Times's Steven Greenhouse and David Leonhardt reported yesterday, the economic expansion that began in late 2001 is on track to become the first since World War II that fails to offer a sustained lift to the real wages of most American workers. Although the nation's economy has grown and productivity has been strong, American employees have not shared in the wealth they've helped to create. Wages and salaries now make up the lowest proportion of the economy since the government began keeping records in 1947, while corporate profits have climbed to their highest share since the 1960's.
 Until recently, the decline in real wages has been masked in large part by the housing boom that allowed many Americans to borrow and spend, even as their pay was squeezed. But now the housing market is flagging and with it, the Bush-era economy -- without American workers having ever experienced a period of solid prosperity. 
 Unfortunately, there's little likelihood of meaningful improvement anytime soon. When Mr. Bush and his advisers are not insisting that everything is fine, they're promising more high-end tax cuts as a cure-all, or painting the problem as one of impersonal market forces for which there are no government solutions.
 Those are not the paths out of the predicament. Just the opposite, they are approaches that have contributed to it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); WORLD WAR II (56%) United States Economy; Editorials; Income

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



579 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Counters Criticism With a Political-Style Ad Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, under attack now from unions and prominent Democrats, yesterday introduced a marketing campaign that closely resembles the television advertisements used by political candidates.
 In a local experiment that is eventually to be seen across the country, the giant discount retailer began broadcasting two television spots that, in unusually detailed terms, trumpet its health care plans, charitable contributions and positive impact on the American economy.
The ads do not attack Wal-Mart critics but introduce its merits, much as a candidate would. ''Our low prices save the average working family $2,300 a year,'' says the narrator of one ad. ''Which buys a lot of things -- and a whole lot of freedom.'' 
 For Wal-Mart, the ads represent a significant departure from its practice of rebutting critics in the media but presenting itself, at least in consumer television marketing, as untroubled by its image problems. 
 Increasingly, however, Wal-Mart appears to believe it has failed to persuade the public that its benefits and wages are generous, leaving it open to attacks from union-backed groups and political parties. Democratic presidential contenders, for example, have seized on the company as a symbol of substandard pay and health insurance, hoping to address voters' economic anxieties. 
 Robert S. McAdam, Wal-Mart's vice president of corporate affairs, said the new ads were not a response to attacks by senior Democrats like Senators Joseph Biden of Delaware and Evan Bayh of Indiana but, rather, an effort to ''clear up'' what he called inaccurate perceptions. 
 ''There is a lot of misunderstanding about what we do in health care,'' he said. ''It has been troubling that we cannot get our message out.''
 As a result, he added, ''these ads are more direct than anything we have done before.''
 The ads look and sound like campaign spots -- and are a far cry from previous Wal-Mart TV campaigns, which featured a yellow smiley face and blue-smocked employees. One of the spots, which evokes Bill Clinton's ''A Place Called Hope'' message during the 1992 presidential election, begins with an image of Sam Walton's first five-and-dime store. ''It all began with a big dream in a small town,'' says the narrator, ''Sam Walton's dream.''
 Later, the narrator ticks off a list of Wal-Mart's benefits: ''Last year alone, Wal-Mart created tens of thousands of new American jobs -- many in areas where they're needed most. And we offer eligible associates health insurance for less than a dollar a day.'' 
 The ads, running in Omaha and Tucson, underscore Wal-Mart's transformation over the last several years from an insular company obsessed with low prices and technological efficiency to one that openly acknowledges its public relations troubles and has introduced numerous programs to counter them. 
 In the last year, the company has expanded health care coverage to the children of part-time workers, has committed to sweeping reductions in energy use and has promised to work with competing retailers in urban areas where it builds stores. 
 The ads also reflect the influence of Edelman, the public relations firm Wal-Mart has hired to rehabilitate its image. The firm has assigned former political operatives to develop a public relations strategy for the retailer, including a rapid-response war room and a blog that attacks its union-backed critics, like WakeUpWalmart.com, which organized a bus tour featuring Democratic leaders. Blue Worldwide, a division of Edelman, created the ads. 
 Eric Dezenhall, a veteran corporate crisis expert and president of Dezenhall Resources in Washington, said it appeared that Wal-Mart had become tired of communicating its message of change through news organizations. ''There is no guarantee of effectiveness,'' he said of the new TV ads, ''but there is a guarantee that your message goes out undiluted.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two television spots from Wal-Mart are meant to blunt attacks by unions and some Democratic candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Advertising and Marketing; Television; Labor; Philanthropy; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Fringe Benefits; Medicine and Health; News and News Media; Retail Stores and Trade; Organized Labor ; United States Economy

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%) Michael Barbaro

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006



580 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Notes About Rate Policy Send Shares Higher

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose for a second day after the Federal Reserve's report on its last policy meeting suggested that the Fed might put off interest rate increases, outweighing the biggest drop in consumer confidence in almost a year.
 Fed officials are unsure whether to lift rates again after doing so 17 times since June 2004, according to records of the latest policy meeting. The release of the minutes helped stocks erase earlier losses after a report from the Conference Board showed consumers were more pessimistic this month.
''The Fed is in no hurry to raise interest rates,'' said Stanley Nabi, who helps manage $7.5 billion as vice chairman at Silvercrest Asset Management Group in New York. ''The stock market is going to creep upwards.'' 
 Intel, the semiconductor maker, led the Dow Jones industrial average higher after introducing a new chip five months ahead of schedule. Home Depot, the home-improvement retailer, also rallied.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 2.50 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,304.28, the highest level since May 11. The Dow average rose 17.93 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,369.94. The Nasdaq composite index gained 11.60 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,172.30.
 Americans rattled by rising gas prices and a slowing housing market pushed the Conference Board's index of confidence to 99.6 in August from 107 in July, the biggest drop since September. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast a decline to 102.7.
 The gauge was another piece of evidence that raised concern that spending might wane. A plunge in home sales last week unnerved investors, pushing the S.& P. 500 down 0.6 percent.
 As negative economic data comes in, investors are also weighing whether the economy may fall into a recession after two years of Fed interest rate increases. Policy makers left the benchmark unchanged at 5.25 percent on Aug. 8.
 Reports this week will probably show gross domestic product expanded at a slower pace in the April-to-June period than in the first quarter and domestic manufacturing was little changed in August. Employers added fewer jobs this month than the average in the first seven months of this year, economists said.
 Minutes from the last meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee showed policy makers were grappling with whether to raise rates or hold back because of the housing slump.
 The bankers said ''inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time.'' They also said ''the decision to keep policy unchanged at this meeting was a close call and noted that additional firming could well be needed.''
 Intel rose 30 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $19.68, for the Dow average's biggest advance. The company introduced the Xeon chip ahead of schedule to combat market-share losses to Advanced Micro Devices, its closest competitor.
 Home Depot jumped 40 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $34.09 for the fourth-biggest gain in the Dow average.
 Crude oil for October delivery declined 1.3 percent, to $69.71 a barrel, as Tropical Storm Ernesto moved away from Gulf of Mexico oil fields. The price of a gallon of gasoline fell to $2.84 yesterday, the lowest since April, according to the American Automobile Association.
 Shares of S.& P. 500 companies dependent on discretionary spending by consumers added 0.6 percent, the third-biggest advance among 10 industry groups. Investors bet that spending would hold up as gasoline prices slipped to a four-month low.
 Goodyear Tire and Rubber, the largest United States tire maker, climbed 62 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $13.22. Tiffany had the second-largest advance in the group, adding $1.28, or 4 percent, to $33.17.
 ''Lower energy prices have both a positive financial and positive psychological impact on the consumer,'' said Franklin Morton, who helps oversee about $17 billion at Ariel Capital Management in Chicago. ''That would be both good for the economy and the stock market.''
 About five stocks advanced for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.38 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 14 percent fewer than the three-month daily average.
 Energy companies fell with the price of crude. Exxon Mobil fell 69 cents, to $69.41. Valero Energy, the nation's largest refiner, lost 50 cents, to $59.89.
 Ten-year Treasury notes gained, pushing yields to the lowest since March, as traders said the minutes of the Federal Reserve's Aug. 8 meeting showed more support than they expected for the decision to leave interest rates unchanged.
 ''People thought there would be much more of a debate about raising rates, and there didn't seem to be,'' said Brian Edmonds, head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald. ''People are going to continue to think the Fed's pausing, if not done.''
 The 10-year note's yield, which moves inversely to its price, declined more than 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.78 percent.
 On Aug. 8, the Fed left its target for overnight lending between banks at 5.25 percent after raising it a quarter-percentage point at each meeting since June 2004. The increases were aimed at restraining inflation.
 The dollar fell the most in two weeks, to 116.64 yen, from 117.18 late yesterday. The dollar traded at $1.2825 a euro from $1.2779 yesterday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes and four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.603
High Rate: 5.100
Coupon Yield: 5.191
Low Rate: 5.080
Median Rate: 5.090
Total applied for: $57,089,029
Accepted: $28,051,161
Noncompetitive: $404,940
The four-week bills mature Sept. 28, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.913
High Yield: 4.921
Low Yield: 4.850
Median Yield: 4.898
Accepted at low price: 1%
Total applied for: $55,510,857
Accepted: $26,503,562
Noncompetitive: $1,068,229
Interest set at: 4 3/5Dagger 4/5 %
The 2-year notes mature August 31, 2008.


 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the D.J. industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ELECTRONICS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); HOME CENTERS (68%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); EVIDENCE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Credit; Finances; Interest Rates

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); SILVERCREST ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



581 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Official Urges China to Work to Revive Trade Talks 

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 29 

 BODY:
China should throw its influence as a global trading giant behind efforts to revive talks aimed at lowering trade barriers, a United States official said Tuesday.
 Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, said China was taking a back seat to other, more vocal members of the World Trade Organization, including India and Brazil, rather than playing a leadership role in breaking a deadlock in the talks, known as the Doha round.
 ''China has as much of an interest in an open trading system as any country in the world,'' Ms. Schwab said at a news briefing in Beijing after meeting with senior Chinese officials. ''The only way the Doha round is going to ultimately move forward is with collaborative leadership of a group of forward-leaning, market-oriented countries that are willing to stretch politically to get it done, and China ought to be a part of that equation.'' 
 Ms. Schwab was in Beijing on the last leg of an Asian tour aimed at reviving support for the negotiations, which collapsed last month. But there is no sign that China is prepared to abandon its low-key approach to global trade talks.
 Instead, Beijing appeared to suggest that the United States and the European Union needed to agree on cuts to farm subsidies that would satisfy developing countries. 
 After meeting with Ms. Schwab, the Chinese commerce minister, Bo Xilai, said Beijing was prepared to work for an early resumption of the talks, but he called on developed countries to act. 
 ''We hope the developed W.T.O. member countries will make substantial contributions in order to resume the talks as soon as possible and reach the objectives of the negotiations in a timely manner,'' Mr. Bo said on the Commerce Ministry's Web site. 
 Mr. Bo also said that the failure of the talks was regrettable and that restarting them was in the interest of a majority of W.T.O. members.
 There were high hopes that the latest round of talks, which started in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, would remove barriers to agricultural and industrial trade. But the talks were suspended late last month, when officials from the United States, the European Union, Japan, Australia, Brazil and India -- the so-called Group of 6 -- failed to agree in Geneva on cuts to farm subsidies. 
 An important goal of the talks was to allow poor and developing economies to increase exports, particularly of farm goods, to developed countries. Some trade experts say the dispute that led to the collapse of the talks spoiled a rare opportunity to stimulate economic growth and alleviate poverty in the developing world.
 Unlike Brazil and India, which have led developing nations in the fight against European and United States farm subsidies, China has avoided taking a strong stand along any of the fault lines on market access that divide the developed and the developing world. 
 ''If you were China, with arguably the greatest stake in the international trading system, would you want India or Brazil to be articulating your position?'' Ms. Schwab asked. She rejected suggestions that China had little to gain from participating in the dispute, saying any deterioration in the global trading system would be a serious setback for China.
 ''China has very significant interests it needs to be looking out for,'' she said. Ms. Schwab also warned that China should avoid allowing ''economic nationalism'' to undermine pledges Beijing made to open its markets for financial services when it joined the W.T.O.
 Foreign banks, including HSBC, Citigroup and Standard Chartered, have been preparing to expand in China, which has an estimated $2 trillion in household savings. But some experts fear that China will continue to restrict the activities of foreign banks in a bid to protect its fragile state-owned banks.
 China has spent billions of dollars to clear bad debt from its major banks, but most analysts say those banks face the risk of a fresh wave of bad loans accumulating if the economy slows sharply.
 Ms. Schwab said that China had made major progress in opening its financial industry but that there was a sense that an urge to protect that industry could block foreign competitors.
 Some foreign banks are worried that new draft rules Beijing has proposed to govern its operations in China could make competing for local customers more difficult, according to reports in the state news media.
 Representatives from about 30 foreign banks met China's banking regulator last Wednesday to discuss the proposed rules, which would require them to incorporate in China with a minimum of $125 million in capital rather than simply open branches, The China Daily reported.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, spoke yesterday at a news conference in Beijing. (Photo by Greg Baker/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (86%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Susan C Schwab; David Lague

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); QATAR (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



582 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Chechen Security Forces Wage Unchecked Violence
Recent brutish acts and instances of religious policing by Chechen security forces, including the torture of a woman accused of adultery, have gone unpunished, raising questions about the country's direction and demonstrating the vicious behavior that Russia has said its invasion of Chechnya was supposed to stop. A1

Iraqi Pipeline Explosion Kills 67 

At least 67 people, including dozens of looters siphoning gasoline from a government pipeline, were killed in an explosion after fuel vapor was accidentally ignited by a cigarette lighter, Iraqi police said. A10

Rumsfeld Assails War Critics
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said critics of the war in Iraq and the campaign against terror groups ''seem not to have learned history's lessons'' and alluded to those in the 1930's who advocated appeasing Nazi Germany. A4

Annan Praises Lebanese Efforts
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, went to Israel after two days in Lebanon that he said convinced him the Lebanese were serious about preserving the current cease-fire and moving toward a permanent peace. A10

3 More Charged in Plane Plot
British police charged three more people with terrorism and conspiracy counts following this month's alert over what they described as a plot to bomb airliners flying from Britain to the United States. A3

Press Confronts Iranian Leader
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran faced challenges at a news conference in Tehran from local reporters who questioned the government's economic program and its tolerance of a critical press. A3

NATIONAL A12-19

Bush Visits New Orleans One Year After Katrina
As bells rang out through the streets of New Orleans, people gathered for prayer services and residents hung banners in front of their tattered homes to commemorate the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, President Bush said he took ''full responsibility'' for the slow federal response to the storm. A1

Slight Rise in Household Income
The nation's median household income rose slightly faster than inflation last year for the first time in six years, the Census Bureau reported. The small uptick -- 1.1 percent -- was not nearly enough to offset a longer-term drop in median household income. A1

Broadcast Official Accused
Investigators have found that Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, the head of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, repeatedly used government employees to do his errands, billed the government for more days of work than the rules permit, and put a friend on the government payroll. A1

Average SAT Score Drops
The average score on the reading and math portions of the SAT showed the largest decline in 31 years, according to the College Board. The average score on the reading portion of the SAT fell 5 points. The average math score fell 2 points. That amounted to the lowest combined score since 2002. A12

Source in Leak Case Named
Richard L. Armitage, ex-deputy secretary of state, has said that he was the person whose conversation with a columnist in 2003 prompted the criminal investigation that became known as the C.I.A. leak case, a lawyer involved in the case said. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Enclave for Middle Class Is Put Up for Sale
The owner of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, two 60-year-old apartment complexes on the East Side of Manhattan, is auctioning them for a target price of nearly $5 billion. The sale would undoubtedly transform what has been an affordable home for generations of middle-class residents. A1

Poverty Rate Remains Static
Census figures show that the proportion of New York city residents who live below the federal poverty level has not budged in five years. The figures, coming at a time of relative prosperity, suggest that wealth has not trickled down to the city's poorest. B1

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Pennington to Start for Jets
Ten months after having surgery on his shoulder for a second time, Chad Pennington was named the starting quarterback for the 2006 season by the Jets' coach, Eric Mangini. D1

DINING IN F1-10

Changes at Culinary Institute
The French Culinary Institute in New York is expanding. It is moving into three more floors in its building, tripling its space and making room for three times as many students. F2

OBITUARIES A21

Melvin Schwartz
A scientist who shared the 1988 Nobel Prize in Physics for generating a beam of wispy particles known as neutrinos, he was 73. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Bigger I.M.F. Role for China
In an effort to gain Chinese cooperation on international economic issues, the Bush administration is pushing for China and other developing nations to get more power in the International Monetary Fund. C1

Kraft Looks to Break Free
Kraft Foods has been itching to be independent of its parent, the Altria Group, and free of what many Kraft employees refer to as the ''tobacco taint.'' Today's meeting of Altria's board may bring Kraft one step closer to its goal. C1

An Online Music Source
A new online music company said that it would make a huge catalog of songs from the world's largest record company available for consumers to download free. C5

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Downward mobility; for Congress in Brooklyn; don't pave it over; Tina Rosenberg on AIDS in South Africa.
 Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E7
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (83%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); AIRLINES (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); HURRICANES (63%); MATHEMATICS (60%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (77%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



583 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

U.S. Seeks a New Balance of Economic Power
To gain China's cooperation on economic issues, the Bush administration is pushing for more power for it and other developing nations at the International Monetary Fund. Some in Europe are resisting. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Polygamist Leader Arrested 

Warren Jeffs, the polygamist leader of a Mormon-offshoot sect, was arrested near Las Vegas. Mr. Jeffs, 50, is wanted in Utah and Arizona on charges of arranging marriages between underage girls and older men. He has been on the F.B.I.'s 10 most wanted list for four months. PAGE A12

Longer SAT, Lower Scores
The average score on the reading and math parts of the newly expanded SAT showed the largest decline in 31 years, the College Board reported. The average reading score fell 5 points, to 503 out of 800, and the average math score fell 2 points, to 518. PAGE A12

The Comfort Appetizer
Pigs in a blanket are being welcomed at the most elegant affairs these days. Also: R.W. Apple Jr. reports that dining at the Inn at Easton in Maryland is like a trip to Australia without the 14-hour flight. DINING IN, PAGE F1

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLYGAMY (90%); MARRIAGE (76%); ARRESTS (76%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); RELIGION (71%); MATHEMATICS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



584 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Care by the Hour

BYLINE: By Robin Cook. 
Robin Cook is a medical doctor and the author, most recently, of the novel ''Crisis.''

DATELINE: Naples, Fla. 

 BODY:
A PRIMARY care doctor I've known since we were residents 30 years ago recently described for me his typical day as foisted on him by current economic realities. He rises at 4 a.m. to make a dent in his avalanche of paperwork before dashing off to make rounds at the hospital and arrive at his office before 8. For the next 10 to 11 hours, he races through a series of patients so long, he cannot talk to any one of them as much as he believes he should, and he constantly worries he'll miss something. Worst of all, he admitted, he no longer enjoys practicing medicine.
 Ten-plus years ago primary care was lauded as the potential rescuer of a health care system in chaos. Primary care doctors, it was hoped, would fix what had become an expensive, fragmented specialty system geared toward treating emergencies and episodes of acute illness. Thanks to new technologies and treatments, medicine had become a team effort, but the teams needed captains who would keep patients' overall health in mind, and that role was to be filled by the primary care doctors: internists, family physicians, general practitioners and pediatricians. We would all know our doctors, and they would know us. 
But unfortunately, primary care has not flourished, and the ranks of primary care doctors are thinning. As reported in a series of articles in The Annals of Internal Medicine in 2003, medical students are shunning residencies in primary care, and primary care doctors are migrating to other careers or retiring early. Many who have remained in primary care are, like my friend, dispirited, disgruntled and disillusioned.
 What is the solution? We must make primary care a more manageable business by changing the way we pay for it. Primary care doctors should be paid by the hour.
 As it is now, insurance companies -- following Medicare's lead -- pay primary care doctors according to the number of patients they see. Each patient visit is generally reimbursed at a flat rate of slightly more than $50. The payment is the same whether the patient is a healthy, young person with a runny nose or an elderly person whose multiple chronic illnesses require many tests, referrals to specialists and detailed explanations to both the patient and his or her family. 
 A lawyer in general practice is not expected to accept the same low fee he gets for writing a simple will when he writes one that involves complicated business circumstances. Nor does an accountant charge the same amount for a difficult tax return as for an easy one. Why should the work of doctors be assessed this way?
 A typical primary care doctor spends slightly more than half of his or her day seeing patients; the other half is spent conferring with specialists, lab technicians and patients' families, or trying to persuade health insurance companies to cover some needed treatment. This other half of his work day must be considered pro bono. Factor in rising overhead costs (office space, employees and malpractice premiums), and the situation easily becomes untenable.
 No wonder hundreds of primary care doctors have switched to concierge-style practices, in which patients are charged subscription fees in return for more personal service in markedly smaller practices. But this trend only adds to the problem of accessibility by reducing the pool of regular primary care doctors. 
 Ideally, the hourly rate would not be the same for all primary care physicians, but would be assessed on a sliding scale, predicated on a doctor's level of education. Internists and pediatricians -- the primary care doctors who have had the most training -- would receive a higher rate than general practitioners and family physicians would.
 Reimbursement by the hour might not shorten my friend's day right away; his patient roster is already too large. But it would enable him to reduce his load over time. By making him feel that his sacrifices are valued, it might also help bring back the joy he used to find in practicing medicine. And by enhancing the prestige of primary care, it might reverse the exodus of doctors and encourage medical students to join the field. 
 Some people might fear that hourly payments for doctors would only add to the upward spiraling of health care costs. It's true that primary care physicians would stand to make more money -- because work that is now pro bono would be paid. 
 But this expense can be balanced out by cutting the health care pie differently -- as some large, multi-specialty medical groups already do. Recognizing that Medicare and health insurance companies pay disproportionately higher amounts for specialty procedures (angioplasties, for example, or colonoscopies or even freckle removal) than for consultations by primary care doctors, many practices redistribute their total income according to each doctor's contribution. Consequently, primary care doctors receive more than the amount the group is reimbursed for their services. Medicare should save them the trouble.
 Medicare has made some adjustments to its reimbursement system to reflect the value of services provided, but it hasn't gone far enough. The pendulum must swing significantly farther toward primary care.
 In the long run, paying by the hour could save money. It would provide doctors the time they need to investigate symptoms themselves rather than reflexively refer patients to specialists. After all, every headache doesn't need to be evaluated by a neurologist; nor does every painful shoulder require an M.R.I.
 It would also increase the pool of primary care doctors, so that more health problems could be handled in doctor's offices rather than in emergency rooms, where the cost of care is more expensive. And finally, better long-term doctor-patient relationships might reduce the number of malpractice lawsuits. Paying for primary care by the hour would be better for both doctors and patients, and it would return a measure of rationality to our health care system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (96%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PEDIATRICS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); MEDICARE (67%); EARLY RETIREMENT (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INSURANCE (62%) Medicine and Health; Doctors; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicare; Health Insrance and Managed Care

PERSON: Robin Cook

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



585 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Downward Mobility

 BODY:
If you're still harboring the notion that the economy is ''good,'' prepare to be disabused. 
 Even the best number from yesterday's Census Bureau report for 2005 is bad news for most Americans. It shows that median income rose 1.1 percent last year, to $46,326, the first increase since it peaked in 1999. But the entire increase is attributable to the 23 million households headed by someone over age 65. So the gain is likely from investment income and Social Security, not wages and salaries. 
For the other 91 million households, the median dropped, by half a percent, or $275. Incomes for the under-65 crowd were hurt by a decline in wages and salaries among full-time working men for the second year in a row, and among full-time working women for the third straight year. In all, median income for the under-65 group was $2,000 lower in 2005 than in 2001, when the last recession bottomed out. 
 Despite the Bush-era expansion, the number of Americans living in poverty in 2005 -- 37 million -- was the same as in 2004. This is the first time the number has not risen since 2000. But the share of the population now in poverty -- 12.6 percent -- is still higher than at the trough of the last recession, when it was 11.7 percent. And among the poor, 43 percent were living below half the poverty line in 2005 -- $7,800 for a family of three. That's the highest percentage of people in ''deep poverty'' since the government started keeping track of those numbers in 1975. 
 As for the uninsured, their ranks grew in 2005 by 1.3 million people, to a record 46.6 million, or 15.9 percent. That's also worse than the recession year 2001, reflecting the rising costs of health coverage and a dearth of initiatives to help families and companies cope with the burden. For the first time since 1998, the percentage of uninsured children increased in 2005. 
 The Census findings are yet another indication that growth alone is not the answer to the economic and social ills of poverty, income inequality and lack of insurance. Economic growth was strong in 2005, and productivity growth was impressive. What have been missing are government policies that help to ensure that the benefits of growth are broadly shared -- like strong support for public education, a progressive income tax, affordable health care, a higher minimum wage and other labor protections. 
 President Bush is unlikely to push for those changes, wed as he is to tax cuts that mainly benefit the wealthy. But the economic agenda for the next president couldn't be clearer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CENSUS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WOMEN (70%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); CHILDREN (66%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); TAX LAW (60%) United States Economy; Income; Editorials; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



586 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Call Me Local

BYLINE: By Justin Tussing. 
Justin Tussing is the author of ''The Best People in the World.''

DATELINE: Northampton, Mass. 

 BODY:
FOR three years my wife and I shared a one-bedroom apartment overlooking the harbor in Provincetown. From our front door we saw dolphins and whales. 
 The Massachusetts town, in its isolation, felt like our own private country. On still evenings the hollow clanging of the buoy off Long Point punctuated our sleep. We marveled at the sunsets and the quahogs. We felt proprietary rights over the cranberry bogs, the coyotes, the mussel beds and the gannets. In late winter when islands of ice sailed into the bay, they were our islands.
You couldn't find our family names in the town cemetery. We weren't property owners. But by virtue of passing a lonely winter on the clenched fist at the end of Cape Cod, we were locals. 
 As summer approached, our attachment to this place, and to our image of ourselves as locals, would reach a zealous peak. We prayed that red tides, hurricanes and rising gas prices might collude to keep the people away. Memorial Day inaugurated an unwelcome season of traffic lights and crowded streets, lines to shop and lines to eat, as hordes of vacationers clogged our paradise. 
 For three straight months, the tour buses and ferries would burp out people. The T-shirt shops would do a brisk trade by silk-screening ''P-town'' on sweatshirts and tank tops and on the seats of athletic shorts (not to mention snow globes and salt shakers and plaster lighthouses). For the tourists, with their premeditated nostalgia, it was the trademark, more than the place, that counted. 
 We learned to cope with a town distended beyond its capacity. We'd run errands in the morning, when fog (and something like a collective hangover) limited the crowds. We'd go out of our way to avoid the carnival procession that ran down the main drag, Commercial Street. We'd monitor available parking spaces with an unhealthy obsession. Labor Day became our most anticipated holiday.
 During those interminable months before Labor Day arrived and the tourists departed, I retreated to a damp and fly-plagued booth perched above the harbor. There, I was the gatekeeper to the sublime. I sold whale-watch tickets.
 Locals do their whale-watching in February and March, from the comfort of their cars, when endangered right whales parade in front of the parking lot at Herring Cove. The whale-watching boats catered almost exclusively to visitors. 
 I sat in my little booth on the wharf, and answered variations on the same questions. Would they see whales? Yes. How long was the trip? Three hours (upon hearing my answer someone would inevitably sing the theme to ''Gilligan's Island''). How much did it cost? It depended on coupons and promotions and my mood. 
 I was petty, but pettiness is the privilege of the powerful. I could dispatch information and disinformation, according to my whim. I could direct you to the leather bar or the prettiest garden or the best whole-belly clam strips. But good luck finding Subway, or my favorite piece of beach. From a metal folding chair, I witnessed, I judged, and I proselytized. 
 The tourists approached the ticket booth with a feed-me attitude. They expected a benevolent Nature. They wanted assurances that they would see whales, good whales. They wanted guarantees for the weather, for their satisfaction, and they needed to be back in time for dinner reservations. 
 But what I cherished about my job was that those same demanding, anxious, suspicious people would hammer down a gangplank and onto a boat, and, three hours later, disembark, often missing hats or cameras, becalmed and lovely. I'd like to believe that they'd been moved by seeing something larger than themselves, or that being out of sight of land had caused some elemental change in their souls. 
 More likely they were still under the spell of Dramamine. I watched them stumble toward their cars. Stripped of their consuming hunger, they seemed less like barbarians and more like innocents. 
 Sometimes, they would pause to ask me a final question: How do we get out of here? I drew comfort from the fact that they were leaving and I, the local, would stay. This was a fantasy.
 Soon enough, the economic tides that swept away so many of our friends washed my wife and me inland. We wound up living in western Massachusetts, less than a mile from the Connecticut River -- a body of water that, despite many attempts on my part, refused to accept my displaced affection.
 This year my wife and I headed back to the tip of the Cape. We went as tourists, on vacation. The rainy days no longer cheered us. At the wharf the same commercial fisherman drove past in their rotting trucks, but my face no longer qualified me for the local's discount at the coffee shop. 
 We wandered about, indistinguishable from the other summer people. We stopped to stare at the newly renovated art museum, at the flip-flop store that used to be the henna tattoo store and which had been something else before. We peered through a condo's porthole window at the space where we were married, back when it had been a restaurant. We reached Commercial Street and joined the human procession. 
 In the distance, I saw my damp old booth. Part of me wanted to go over there, if only to convince the ticket-taker that I wasn't a tourist. But our strongest claims of belonging usually reveal the opposite. I wasn't kidding anybody. I knew what he would see. 

SUMMERSCAPES
An occasional series on the rites of summer.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Laura Carlin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); US LABOR DAY (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); FERRIES (73%); WEATHER (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); CEMETERIES (55%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%); RETAIL COUPONS (50%) Seasons and Months ; Surveys and Series; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Justin Tussing

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Provincetown (Mass); Cape Cod (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



587 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Confidence Fell in August

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Americans are more pessimistic than they have been all year about the state of the economy, according to a new report that reflects a widespread view that a period of brisk growth is coming to an end. 
 The Conference Board said yesterday that in its monthly survey, American consumer confidence fell sharply in August to its lowest level since last November. The latest index reading of 99.6 was below the 107.0 reported in July, and represented the steepest single-month decline since the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina a year ago.
''Ouch,'' wrote Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics, in a research report on the index. 
 The pace of growth in the American economy has slowed by more than half since the first quarter, and many economists say they think the outlook will grow worse, not least because consumers sense the slowdown and are reining in their spending accordingly. 
 ''Looking ahead, the glass remains half empty, as consumers are growing increasingly more pessimistic about the short-term outlook,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, wrote yesterday in a research note. 
 Consumers have been rattled this month by a surge in gasoline prices, a weakening job market and several signs that the housing market is skidding. 
 ''Lead indicators suggest little prospect of a turnaround anytime soon,'' James Knightley, an economist with ING, wrote yesterday. ''Confidence is likely to remain under downward pressure.''
 Last week, two major statistical reports detailed the malaise in housing. The National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes fell in July to the lowest level in more than two years, while prices flattened and the supply of unsold houses on the market hit a record high. Separately, the Commerce Department said that the median selling price of a new home -- $230,000 in July -- was barely more than a year earlier, and that sales volume had fallen markedly.
 Today, the Commerce Department will report a revised second-quarter gross domestic product figure. Even if the number comes in at what analysts expect -- 3 percent, according to a survey by Bloomberg News -- that will be substantially less than the 5.6 percent growth during the first quarter. Initially, the government measured second-quarter growth at 2.5 percent. 
 Those surveyed by the Conference Board this month reported an increasingly downbeat outlook on many fronts. Survey participants answering that conditions are ''good'' fell to 26.1 percent in August, from 27.3 percent in July. Those who said they believed conditions were ''bad'' increased to 16.7 percent, from 15 percent last month. And respondents expecting business conditions to worsen increased to 12.9 percent, from 10.9 percent.
 When the low readings for the three months after Hurricane Katrina are excluded, August's reading of 99.6 was the lowest in nearly two years. The Conference Board's measure of consumer confidence set a record of 144.7 in May 2000 and hit a low of 47.3 in February 1992, when the country was struggling to recover from a recession.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Graph tracks attitudes in 2005 and 2006.(Source by The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); WEATHER (75%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (52%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Levees

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: Jeremy Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



588 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Four Groups Place Bids To Operate State Tracks

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Aug. 29 

 BODY:
Four groups yesterday submitted bids, along with their visions for horse racing in New York, in an effort to secure the state-granted franchise to operate Aqueduct Race Track, Belmont Park and Saratoga Race Course. 
 The groups were the New York Racing Association, which has held the franchise since 1955; two coalitions that encompass racetrack, gaming and development companies; and an Australian bookmaking operation. NYRA's contract runs out on Dec. 31, 2007.
A nine-member panel appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki will review the bids and recommend one to Pataki and the Legislature on Sept. 29. The panel's decision is nonbinding, however, because a new governor will take office in January and he could begin the bidding process anew.
 At stake is the right to take over a business that handles more than $2.7 billion in horse racing bets annually. With 4,500 video lottery terminals approved for Aqueduct, an additional $650 million a year in revenue is projected.
 Details of the proposals are to remain secret, according to the bidding process, but each of the groups has indicated a general framework in recent weeks.
 The New York Racing Association, for example, has said it intends to operate under a nonprofit model, reinvesting the revenue from the video lottery into purses and capital improvements. Legislators in Albany have said for several years that they were tired of scandals and mismanagement in NYRA, which helped lead to the franchise's being put up for bid.
 But new management has cleaned up NYRA's operations, and it continues to operate the best racing circuit in the nation. 
 The association also contends it owns the property on which the three racetracks were built.
 Empire Racing, created by the New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association, has assembled an impressive group of investors, including the two largest racetrack companies in the United States -- Churchill Downs Inc. and Magna Entertainment Corporation.
 ''Our plan ensures New Yorkers will have their hands on the reins of New York racing and New York horsemen will play the major role in shaping racing's future,'' said Empire Racing's chief executive, Jeff Perlee, the former director of the New York State Lottery. ''Our combination of homegrown control and an impressive team of world-class operators is the best solution for reviving New York racing -- to improve racing and create jobs and economic growth for New Yorkers.''
 Like Empire, Excelsior Racing Associates will pursue a for-profit model and has lined up gaming companies and developers as part of its group. The group is led by Steve Swindal, George Steinbrenner's son-in-law and a general partner in the Yankees, and includes the New York developer Tishman Speyer Properties.
 NYRA, Empire and Excelsior made offers based on six situations, including operating under the current structure without new laws and operating casinos at Aqueduct and Belmont.
 Capital Play Pty Limited, the Australian company, tailored its bid to only one of the six options: a moderate change in racing laws and the addition of video lottery terminals at Belmont Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HORSES (89%); LOTTERIES (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (60%) Horse Racing

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); MAGNA ENTERTAINMENT CORP (84%); CHURCHILL DOWNS INC (64%)

TICKER: CHDN (NASDAQ) (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (84%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (84%)

PERSON: Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



589 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

BUSH NUDGES CHINA -- The Bush administration is pushing for China and other developing nations to get more power in the International Monetary Fund, in an effort to gain Chinese cooperation on international economic issues.[Page C1.]

CHINA AND THE W.T.O. -- China should throw its influence as a global trading giant behind efforts to revive talks aimed at lowering trade barriers, Susan C. Schwab, left, the United States trade representative, said in Beijing. She said that China was taking a back seat to more vocal members of the World Trade Organization, including India and Brazil, rather than playing a leadership role in breaking a deadlock in the talks, known as the Doha round. [C4.] 


FED WAS ON THE FENCE -- Although the Federal Reserve's policy makers chose to keep interest rates unchanged, several thought that increases ''could well be needed'' in the future, according to minutes of the Fed's Aug. 8 meeting. [C1.]

SHARES ADVANCE -- Stocks rose for a second day after the Federal Reserve suggested it might put off interest-rate increases, outweighing the biggest drop in consumer confidence in almost a year. [C8.]

PAPER COUPONS SURVIVE -- An Internet assault on the paper-clipping coupon business is under way, but while the cool logic of efficiency suggests the traditional paper coupon is in imminent peril, the marketplace tells another story. [C1.]

HOUSEHOLD INCOME EDGES UP -- The nation's median household income rose slightly faster than inflation last year for the first time in six years, the Census Bureau reported. [A1.]

INQUIRY ON AGENCY HEAD -- State Department investigators have found that Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, the head of the agency that oversees most government broadcasts to foreign countries, used government employees to do his personal errands and that he billed the government for more days of work than the rules permit. [A1.]

VETO OF WINE BILL -- Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has vetoed a bill that would have declared zinfandel to be the ''historic wine'' of California. [A12.]

GOT FAME? -- Faced with declining milk consumption by teenagers, dairy companies are embarking on an ad campaign with sports and entertainment celebrities and interactive features that they hope will win young people over. Advertising. [C3.]

BOOKSELLER INQUIRY -- Barnes & Noble said that it had received a subpoena from a United States attorney requesting documents on its stock options practices. [C3.]

WORKERS BRIEFED ON FORD -- Local union leaders at the Ford Motor Company received an update on the struggling company's condition, but said they were not told about any specific steps the company planned to take. [C3.]

METALS DEAL MOVES FORWARD -- The nickel mining company Inco confirmed its support for a friendly offer from Phelps Dodge after it failed to persuade a Brazilian company to increase a hostile takeover bid of $18 billion. [C4.]

FREE AND LEGAL MUSIC -- A new online music company called SpiralFrog said that it would make a huge catalog of songs from the world's largest record company, the Universal Music Group, available for consumers to download free. [C5.]

GOOGLE CHIEF ON APPLE'S BOARD -- Apple Computer said that the chief executive of Google, Eric Schmidt, was joining its board. [C5.]

KRAFT WANTS INDEPENDENCE -- Kraft Foods, the packaged food company, has been itching to be independent of its parent, the Altria Group, and its tobacco units Philip Morris USA and Philip Morris International. Today's meeting of Altria's board may bring Kraft one step closer to its goal. [C1.]

NOVELL'S PROFIT UP -- The business software maker Novell posted a higher quarterly profit and said that it had begun an internal investigation into previous stock options grants. [C5.]

J.& J. WINS ANTITRUST SUIT -- Johnson & Johnson won an antitrust lawsuit that had accused the company of illegally using its sutures monopoly to increase sales of other surgical products. [C7.]

HOME DEPOT REVISES BYLAWS -- Home Depot took another step to repair its image with investors after an acrimonious annual meeting in May, announcing that it had revised company bylaws to require that each director be elected by majority vote. [C8.]

ONLINE

YOUR MONEY -- Look ahead at the news that will affect your finances with a free weekly newsletter at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

DEALBOOK -- Daily news on mergers and acquisitions, I.P.O.'s, venture capital and more is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

THE WALK-THROUGH -- Writers for The New York Times look at residential real estate news, trends and tidbits at nytimes.com/walkthrough.

CHILD LABOR IN ZAMBIA -- Michael Wines discusses the increasing use of child labor in sub-Saharan Africa in a multimedia report at nytimes.com/world.

WATER WORRIES -- As travelers adjust to the new rules against carrying liquids onto planes, they are becoming more concerned about their access to the most essential liquid: water. A report is at nytimes.com/travel.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of Altria Group for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAIL COUPONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); VETO (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (71%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%); MILK (66%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (65%); ADOLESCENTS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); NICKEL MINING (60%); BOOKSTORES (60%); SUBPOENAS (60%); SPORTS MARKETING (60%); CENSUS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VALE INCO LTD (80%); FORD MOTOR CO (80%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (80%); F (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (80%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (80%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (80%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (80%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



590 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Body by Milk: More Than Just a White Mustache

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
FACED with declining milk consumption by teenagers, dairy companies are embarking on an advertising campaign with sports and entertainment celebrities and interactive features that they hope will win young people over.
 Backed by a budget of approximately $20 million -- one-third of the milk processors' annual advertising expenditures -- the campaign is the latest iteration of their famous ''Got milk?'' advertising, which since 1995 has featured celebrities with milk mustaches.
The new campaign's message -- that studies suggest ''teens who choose milk tend to be leaner, plus the protein helps build muscle'' -- carries the theme ''Body by milk'' and is reinforced by a new Web site, bodybymilk.com. This message is generating criticism among doctors and nutrition experts, who question its conclusions. 
 The campaign comes at a particularly volatile time not only for milk processors, but also for all beverage manufacturers.
 The Beverage Marketing Corporation, a consulting company, says per capita milk consumption has generally declined each year since 1975. Taylor Nelson Sofres, a marketing research and information company, has found steadily decreasing per capita consumption among teenagers 13 to 17 in the last three years. Beverage Digest, a trade publication, reported that the number of cases of soda sold in the United States fell last year for the first time in 20 years, as consumers sought greater variety in drinks and healthier diets.
 The timing of the new milk processors' campaign is ''almost kind of like a perfect storm, with the concerns of health experts, schools, parents, the target, media,'' said Sal Taibi, president of Lowe New York, which created the campaign. Lowe is a unit of Lowe Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
 The campaign features four celebrities chosen for their physiques and appeal to teenagers: the soccer star David Beckham; Alex Rodriguez, the Yankees third baseman; Sasha Cohen, the ice skater; and Carrie Underwood from ''American Idol.''
 Each appears individually in a full-page ad that promotes milk as a way to help teenagers lose weight and build muscle. The ads also claim that ''staying active, eating right, and drinking three glasses a day of low-fat or fat-free milk instead of sugary drinks helps you look your best.'' They end with the question, ''Got milk?''
 Processors' previous ads for teenagers stressed milk's ability to promote growth and provide calcium. The new messages should appeal to teenagers, said Kurt Graetzer, chief executive of the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board, which represents the processors, ''because they are very concerned about weight and appearance.''
 ''Milk can be part of the solution,'' Mr. Graetzer said.
 The ads will make their debut in the September issues of magazines read by teenagers, like Blender, CosmoGirl, Seventeen, Electronic Gaming, Spin and Sports Illustrated for Kids. The celebrities will also appear in posters that will be distributed, through school food service directors, in more than 100,000 schools.
 The campaign's interactive components include a page on MySpace.com and banner ads on Web sites like Alloy.com, Bolt.com; Facebook.com and Gamezone.com.
 The new bodybymilk.com Web site was created by the Chicago office of Weber Shandwick Worldwide, part of Interpublic.
 The site features an ''auction'' in which visitors can bid each day for merchandise -- from companies like Adidas, the sports apparel maker; Baby Phat, a clothing maker; Fender, the guitar manufacturer; and CCS, which makes skateboards -- using bar code or expiration date data from milk containers. The auction is managed by the Chicago office of Draft, a marketing communications company that is also part of Interpublic. Visitors to the site can also create their own milk mustache ads.
 A number of doctors and nutrition experts challenge the ads' statements about milk's ability to help teenagers lose weight and build muscle.
 Barry M. Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina, said the public would ignore the exact language of the ads, which says studies ''suggest teens who choose'' milk tend to be leaner.
 ''They will quickly leap to the assumption that drinking more milk will get them to lose weight,'' he said.
 Dr. David S. Ludwig, director of the obesity program at Children's Hospital Boston and an author of a report released in March on soda consumption among teenagers, said: ''The purpose of the campaign is clearly to sell product and not to inform the public. If the purpose were to inform the public, then positive, neutral and negative studies should be presented in a balanced way.''
 A New York consultant who specializes in marketing to young consumers, Irma Zandl, said that although she thought ''Body by milk'' was a ''great idea,'' the ads' execution was ''too generic.''
 ''It doesn't sound fresh,'' she said. ''It doesn't get teenagers to think about milk in a new way; it sounds educational, schoolmarmish.''
 But Michael C. Bellas, chairman and chief executive of the Beverage Marketing Corporation, called the campaign ''wonderful'' and commended the milk processors for their timing.
 The teenage years ''are a crucial time when people start forming their drinking habits,'' he said. ''If you can improve their consumption of milk, they will take those drinking habits with them as they age.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sasha Cohen and David Beckham are featured in an ad campaign for milk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); FLUID MILK MFG (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); MILK (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); OILS & FATS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); CHILDREN (69%); WEB SITES (69%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (68%); BEVERAGE MFG (67%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (67%); DIETING (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ICE SKATING (62%); SOCCER (50%) Dairy Products; Advertising and Marketing; Children and Youth; Computers and the Internet; Celebrities

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); BEVERAGE MARKETING CORP (83%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (50%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (50%) Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



591 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Clip and Save Holds Its Own Against Point and Click; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Tradition Helps Paper Coupons Survive Online Competition

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In an Internet age, it would seem to be a scene from the past. But for Kristine Davis, as for millions of shoppers across the country, it remains a Sunday morning ritual: retrieving the newspaper from the driveway and quickly extracting the coupon inserts. 
 By shrewdly using coupons, and tracking store sales, Ms. Davis says she can cut the monthly grocery bill by 30 or 40 percent for her family of four in Marietta, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta.
''It makes me feel terrible when I go to the store and don't have a coupon,'' she said. ''It's a way of life.''
 It is a way of life, at first glance, that seems especially vulnerable to the relentless advance of the Internet, with its ability to aim at narrow groups of consumers and measure results. An estimated 99 percent of the roughly 300 billion coupons distributed annually in the United States -- mainly in Sunday newspapers -- end up in the trash, unused and unredeemed. 
 An Internet assault on the paper-clipping coupon business is indeed under way, and Google has now entered the fray. But while the cool logic of efficiency suggests the traditional paper coupon is in imminent peril, the marketplace tells another story -- at least so far. 
 The coupon business is a case of new technology confronting a deep-seated commercial culture. Market practices, business relationships and consumer expectations developed over decades are not likely to be quickly swept aside. 
 There are, to be sure, other holdouts against the supposedly inevitable triumph of digital technology and the Internet. At one time or other, the endangered species list of commerce has included books, bricks-and-mortar stores and business travel for face-to-face meetings. But the resilience of the humble paper coupon appears particularly remarkable. Consumer surveys have shown that most American households use coupons, and that the coupon inserts are the second-most-read part of the Sunday newspaper, after the front page.
 ''Coupons are an ingrained part of the nation's shopping culture,'' said Charles Brown, co-chairman of the Coupon Council, a coupon advocacy group.
 The paper coupon, Mr. Brown insists, is a powerful marketing vehicle to reach millions of consumers and build brands and customer loyalty. Proof of the coupon's worth, he said, is that major companies like Procter & Gamble, S. C. Johnson, General Mills and Kraft continue to rely on traditional coupons, and that the yearly number of coupons distributed keeps rising slightly. 
 Some marketing experts say that while old habits resist change, the demise of the paper coupon is a sure thing. It is, they say, the marketing equivalent of a blunderbuss, while the Internet offers a laser shot.
 ''The paper coupon is the single most inefficient marketing tool you could imagine,'' said Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer at Coca-Cola who is a marketing consultant in Sausalito, Calif. ''The traditional paper coupon is going to die. It can't survive in the Internet world.''
 Two weeks ago, Google announced that it would begin offering local discount coupons to people who use its Google Maps service. The search giant is joining companies that have been distributing online coupons for years, like ValPak and CoolSavings, and Silicon Valley start-ups like Coupons Inc. and Zixxo, which are bringing new technology to the business of marketing national or local coupons over the Internet. 
 The use of online coupons is rising rapidly, by more than 50 percent a year, but they still account for less than 1 percent of the consumer goods coupons distributed, according to the Promotion Marketing Association, a trade group. 
 Coupon sites like ValPak and CoolSavings, a subsidiary of Q Interactive, offer coupons for local merchants or nationally branded products. But digital coupons are also spread across many Web sites, just as ads are. So those looking for information on baby care might see an online coupon for diapers, while a person looking at a Web site for motorcycle enthusiasts would be more likely to see a coupon for helmets or leather jackets. 
 That kind of selective marketing, showing consumers advertising and promotions related to their browsing interests, is the potential Internet advantage. 
 Digital coupons typically must be printed and physically turned in at a store. So, there is still some paper handling. The next stage, according to marketing experts, will come with the spread of digital cellphones with location-tracking and automatic short-range communication technology. Electronic coupons will be delivered to cellphone owners on demand and redeemed by whisking the phone past a cash register scanner, eliminating all paper.
 ''That's going to be the nuclear explosion in the coupon business,'' said Mr. Sealey, the consultant, who expects that shift to occur in five years or so. 
 For its part, Google is going after the local coupon market. A person types in a city name or ZIP code and a buying interest, like ''pizza,'' and Google Maps presents a street map with locations flagged and a list of pizza shops beside the Web map. 
 Google will give merchants simple Web tools for making digital coupons. It is distributing online coupons, including ones from ValPak, without charge to the local businesses. Google plans to make money mainly by selling more ads to small businesses, linked to search words.
 ''The economics of distributing coupons digitally is very attractive,'' said Shailesh Rao, Google's director of local search. ''We think a big opportunity is there.'' 
 Coupons Inc., a start-up in Mountain View, Calif., is trying to move the coupons for national consumer brands online. Steven R. Boal, the chief executive, recalled that he was struck by the inefficiency of distributing and handling paper coupons when he first looked at the business. 
 ''It was a forehead slapper,'' said Mr. Boal, a former vice president for derivatives technology at J. P. Morgan. ''This industry is ripe for change.''
 In the last few years, the company has built a Web-based system for securely offering printable coupons for many large consumer companies. The number of coupons printed on the Coupons Inc. system has increased more than tenfold this year, Mr. Boal said. The company charges a small transaction fee to the manufacturers when someone prints a digital coupon. 
 The big transformation of the paper coupon business came in the early 1970's, when George F. Valassis, a printer and marketing entrepreneur, persuaded consumer product companies to offer coupons that he would aggregate in Sunday newspaper inserts nationwide. 
 Today, this national coupon industry is estimated at more than $6 billion a year. About half of that is in incentive payments: the amount consumers save when they redeem coupons. The rest goes to all the middlemen involved in distributing, collecting and clearing coupon transactions. Fees are paid at each stage of handling, with retailers typically receiving 8 cents for each coupon they collect and pass along. S. C. Johnson & Son, the maker of Windex, Pledge, Glade and other household products, uses billions of paper coupons annually in its marketing. The nation's Sunday newspapers can put a coupon in more than 50 million homes, noted Pat Penman, director of marketing services at S. C. Johnson.
 ''Online coupons are more targeted, but the traditional coupon is a big, pervasive marketing technique,'' Mr. Penman said.
 And while coupon clippers, Ms. Penman added, are looking for savings, they are also browsing for new products. So last month when the company introduced its Glade PlugIns Scented Oil Light Show, an air freshener in a light that changes color, it started an aggressive coupon campaign in Sunday newspapers.
 ''The Internet is having a big impact in how we market,'' Ms. Penman observed. ''But it's not a light switch. It's a transition.''
 Coupon fanatics, it seems, will find plenty in their Sunday papers for years to come. But even for those coupons, the Internet can be a tool. Ms. Davis, in the Atlanta suburbs, frequents Web sites like www.couponmom.com, run by Stephanie Nelson, whose ''virtual coupon organizer'' is a state-by-state Web database of coupon offers in newspaper circulars. 
 Consumer product companies issue coupons to encourage people to sample new products, to make impulse purchases and to foster brand loyalty -- not to enable the coupon cognoscenti to routinely save 30 or 40 percent on the monthly grocery bills. 
 So the two sides -- producer and consumer -- use different terms to describe certain shopping tactics. Sometimes, for example, a product will go on sale weeks after a coupon is published, but shortly before the coupon expires. The resulting savings can be huge -- the item can be almost free -- and that is not what the product maker had in mind with promotional campaigns that just barely overlap. To companies, this tactic is ''stacking,'' suggesting a gaming of the system. To shoppers, it is a ''double play,'' a cleverly timed move.
 ''That's really exciting,'' Ms. Davis said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kristine Davis of Marietta, Ga., says coupon clipping reduces her family's monthly grocery bill by up to 40 percent. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C6)
 (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL COUPONS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RETAIL SALES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (66%); BRANDING (64%) Food; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Behavior; Newspapers; Premiums, Coupons and Trading Stamps; Food; Food

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON BENELUX SA (62%); GOOGLE INC (58%); GENERAL MILLS INC (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Valpak (Coupon Co); Coolsavings.com; Coupons Inc; Zixxo (Co)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); GIS (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



592 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Census Reports Slight Increase In '05 Incomes

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Helena Andrews contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The nation's median household income rose slightly faster than inflation last year for the first time in six years, the Census Bureau reported yesterday.
 The rise, however, had little to do with bigger paychecks -- in fact, both men and women earned less in 2005 than 2004. Rather, census officials said, more family members were taking jobs to make ends meet, and some people made more money from investments and other sources beyond wages.
The glimmer of improvement came after years in which the economy slogged through the bursting of the 1990's stock market boom, a brief economic downturn, the aftershocks from the 2001 terrorist attacks, a series of corporate scandals and growing evidence of a deepening divide between rich and poor. 
 While the economy has been strong by most statistical measures for the past several years, its benefits have not translated into improvements in the standard of living for many people. In New York, the proportion of city residents living below the poverty level has not changed in the last five years. [Page B1.] 
 Nationally, the small uptick in median household income reported yesterday, 1.1 percent, was not enough to offset a longer-term drop in median household income -- the annual income at which half of the country's households make more and half make less. 
 That figure fell 5.9 percent between the 2000 census and 2005, to $46,242 from $49,133, according to an analysis of the data conducted for The New York Times by the sociology department of Queens College. The difference was so sharp, in part, because the 2000 census measured 1999 income, which was at the height of the dot-com bubble. 
 Still, census officials were upbeat at a news conference while announcing the new data, also pointing out that the number and percentage of those living below the poverty line held steady in 2005 after four consecutive annual increases.
 The White House seized on the positive numbers, which had been in short supply in previous recent census reports.
 ''Unemployment is low, wages are rising, and there are more jobs in America today than at any other time in history,'' said Rob Portman, director of the Office of Management and Budget. ''While we still have challenges ahead, our ability to bounce back is a testament to the strong work ethic of the American people, the resiliency of our economy and pro-growth economic policies, including tax relief.''
 Within hours of the data's release, political partisans on both sides were parsing it for advantage in the upcoming midterm elections, what with both houses of Congress in play and voters' assessments of the nation's economic health likely to play a role in the outcome.
 ''Today's census report confirms that most working families have not been able to make much economic progress in the last year, and they still have not made up the ground lost since President Bush took office,'' said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the ranking Democrat on the Joint Economic Committee.
 Republicans responded in kind.
 ''While many Democrats have jumped on the opportunity to point out some statistics today, we can't forget that the economy remains strong,'' said Carolyn Weyforth, spokeswoman for the Senate Republican leader, Bill Frist. ''Yes, there are some disconcerting numbers that Senator Frist feels that Congress must continue to address, but by no means do these numbers mean that the economy is anything but strong and continuing to grow.''
 The new data also showed continuing erosion in the percentage of Americans covered by health insurance. In 2005, an estimated 46.6 million people had no coverage, up 1.3 million since 2004 and increasing the percentage of Americans without health coverage from 15.6 percent of the population to 15.9 percent.
 After recent decreases in the numbers of children without health insurance, this year's data found that their numbers grew between 2004 and 2005, rising from 10.8 percent of those under 18 to 11.2 percent.
 The 5.9 percent drop in median household income since 1999 was not shared equally around the country. In Michigan, median household income fell 11.9 percent between 1999 and 2005. In North Carolina, it was 11.2 percent, in Utah 10.4 percent and in Indiana 9.5 percent.
 But in some states, the impact was not nearly so great: a drop of 2.5 percent in New York, 2.4 percent in South Dakota and 1.9 percent in New Hampshire. In the District of Columbia and six states -- Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Montana, North Dakota and Virginia -- the change was so small that it fell within the survey's margin of error.
 David Johnson, chief of the housing and household economic statistics division, also noted some persistent signs that Americans from different income groups were not sharing equally in the country's recent economic good fortune.
 He pointed out that slightly more than half of the nation's income was going to the top 20 percent of wage earners at the same time that the number living in poverty remained essentially unchanged, at about 37 million people.
 ''That could represent an increase in inequality,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 In fact, the Queens College study found that -- at least between the two years studied, 1999 and 2005 -- there was less economic disparity across the country. In 1999, at the height of the dot-com bubble, those in the top 20 percent in income made 19 times more than those in the bottom 20 percent, while in 2005 that gap had fallen to 14.8 times as much.
 In 2005, the poor accounted for 12.6 percent of the population, roughly the same as in 2004. The only racial group that saw any improvement in their poverty rate over the year was non-Hispanic whites, a group that had 8.7 percent below the poverty line in 2004 and 8.3 percent in 2005.
 And advocates for the poor pointed out that, although the numbers living below the poverty line held steady between 2004 and 2005, there has been a sharp increase in those living in extreme poverty.
 The average person living in poverty actually earned $3,236 less than the poverty line -- $19,971 for a household of four -- in 2005, the highest such gap ever measured by the Census Bureau, said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group. And 43 percent of the poor earned less than half of the poverty limit, Mr. Greenstein said, again the highest such percentage ever recorded.
 ''This is further evidence that the nation's economic recovery has had very limited reach, with many low- and medium-income families not sharing in the game,'' he said.
 The new census data also helped paint a picture of those living at the top and bottom of the nation's income ladder in 2005.
 Those in the top fifth in income were overwhelmingly more likely to live in metropolitan areas than rural ones, 90.8 percent to 9.2 percent. But within those metro areas, they were significantly more likely to be found in the suburbs, with 29.3 percent living within the dominant city limits and 61.5 percent living outside.
 Wealthy Americans were also much more likely to be part of a married couple living in a single-family household (79 percent of those in the top fifth), to be a non-Hispanic white (81.2 percent) and to have two or more wage earners in the household (76.3 percent).
 Meanwhile, those living in the bottom fifth in income could be found in disproportionate numbers in rural areas (21.2 percent of this group lived outside metro areas compared with 9.2 percent of the wealthiest) and to live in non-family households (59 percent of the poor compared with 12.5 percent of the wealthy).
 A study of the data by the CarseyInstitute at the University of New Hampshire found that children in rural areas were particularly hard hit, with the percentage living in poverty in 41 states higher in 2005 than it was five years before.
 Blacks made up 20.6 percent of those living in the bottom fifth, compared with 5.8 percent of those in the top fifth. Hispanics were 13.4 percent of the bottom group and 5.9 percent of the top one.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Still Behind '99''According to census data released yesterday, incomes are generally still down from their 1999 levels.Map of the United States highlighting change in median household income, 1999 to 2005, in 2005 dollars*.*Comparison of 2000 decennial census to 2005 American Community Survey. Surveys differed in methodology, making the precision of a comparison lower.(Source by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); ETHICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (62%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); TAX LAW (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); TERRORISM (55%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (54%); SCANDALS (54%) United States Economy; Income; Election Issues; Marriages; Urban Areas; Rural Areas ; United States Economy; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau; Queens College

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jack (Sen) Reed; Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



593 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Says He Will Make No Endorsement in Governor's Race

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Dealing a symbolic blow to Republicans' hopes of holding on to the executive mansion in Albany, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that he would not make any endorsement in the race to succeed Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 The statement by Mr. Bloomberg, who supported Mr. Pataki, his fellow Republican, in 2002, was a particularly unwelcome development for John Faso, the Republican candidate for governor, who is trailing far behind the Democratic candidate, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, in both fund-raising and public opinion polls.
While Mr. Bloomberg has often stressed his political independence, he has been loyal to Republicans at the state level, raising funds for Mr. Pataki in 2002 and showering money on State Senate Republicans seeking to hold onto their narrow grip on power in Albany. 
 The mayor also said he would ''stay out'' of the race for the United States Senate seat, but offered surprisingly kind words for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a Democrat, who is seeking a second term. In 2004, he endorsed the re-election of New York's other Democratic senator, Charles E. Schumer. 
 The mayor made his comments yesterday at a news conference in the Bronx, after touring the new Bathgate Educational Complex, a $52 million, 140,000-square-foot building that will house four schools this fall. (One of the schools is to move to another location eventually.) 
 ''I am going to stay out of this election,'' Mr. Bloomberg said when asked about the governor's race. ''I'm going to get involved in a couple of other elections outside of New York City, but I think because I'm the mayor and I will have to work with whoever gets elected, it would be incumbent on the -- it would be in the city's interests if I just stayed neutral.''
 The reference to elections outside the city was apparently an allusion to his support of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who lost the party's August primary to Ned Lamont, and who is now running as an independent.
 Referring to Mr. Faso, Mr. Spitzer and Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who is also seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''I know them all and respect all three of them.''
 He added: ''They are all somewhat social, somewhat business friends. And I think all of them would have different sets of skills and the public should consider all of them.''
 The mayor was more curt in assessing the Senate race, where Mrs. Clinton has a commanding lead in the polls over an antiwar primary challenger, Jonathan Tasini. The two Republican candidates -- Kathleen Troia McFarland, who was a Pentagon official in the Reagan administration, and John Spencer, a former mayor of Yonkers -- have struggled to attract support and recognition. 
 ''I've never met the Republican candidate, and the Democratic front-runner, Hillary Clinton, has been a very good senator when we've needed something,'' the mayor said. ''I've gone to her and she's always been very responsible. But I'm going to stay out of the New York primary because I have to work with everybody afterwards.'' 
 Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the mayor, said later that that last comment applied to both the primary and general elections. As for which Republican Senate candidate the mayor was referring to, Mr. Loeser said, ''The mayor might have been introduced to Ms. McFarland at an event years ago, but neither she nor Mr. Spencer is an acquaintance of his.''
 Despite the lack of an endorsement from Mr. Bloomberg, the Faso campaign offered praise for the mayor. ''John Faso has a tremendous amount of respect for Mayor Bloomberg and everything he's accomplished,'' said Susan Del Percio, Mr. Faso's campaign spokeswoman, ''and looks forward to working with him, as the next governor, on important issues like economic development, pension reform and charter schools.''
 Allies of the mayor said his neutrality in the races reflected Mr. Bloomberg's practical approach to politics.
 ''This is a pragmatic, nonpartisan, common-sense approach,'' said William T. Cunningham, a public relations executive who was communications director in the mayor's first term and helped run both his campaigns. ''He's going to put the city before any party labels.''
 John H. Mollenkopf, a political scientist who directs the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center, said he found it surprising that the mayor would not cross party lines to endorse Mr. Spitzer, or at least lavish praise on him, given the perception that Mr. Spitzer is an overwhelming front-runner.
 Dr. Mollenkopf noted that some members of the Bloomberg camp -- notably the deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff -- have bristled at Mr. Spitzer's vocal positions on key sites like ground zero in Lower Manhattan, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's West Side railyards and the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. 
 ''If it was the case that an endorsement from the mayor would make that relationship smoother, then there would be a good argument for the mayor doing it,'' Dr. Mollenkopf said. ''The fact that he's not doing it -- we're reading tea leaves here -- indicates some lack of enthusiasm for Mr. Spitzer on the part of the mayor.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg's predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, famously crossed party lines to endorse Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, in 1994, only to see Mr. Pataki win in an upset. Relations between Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Pataki were strained for years.
 Dr. Mollenkopf predicted of Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Bloomberg, ''The two of them will do a lot of business together, whether they like it or not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); COUNTIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%) Endorsements

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



594 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Notes See Easing In Growth 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's policy makers, in what many described as a ''close call,'' chose to keep interest rates unchanged at their last meeting although several thought that increases ''could well be needed'' in the future.
 The much-anticipated minutes of the Aug. 8 meeting, released yesterday, showed that the policy makers were hoping that a slowing economy, a deteriorating housing market and the accumulating impact of previous rate increases had mitigated the need for still higher interest rates to control inflation. Indeed, the minutes showed a general expectation that the economy would perform at a sub-par level through next year. 
 The minutes had been expected to reveal sharp disagreements over the decision, led by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to halt an unbroken string of rate increases stretching back two years.
 At the meeting, one of the central bankers even voted against a pause, in an institution that makes every effort to vote unanimously as often as possible. Two others, in speeches since the meeting, have expressed concern about inflationary pressure.
 But the decision to pause seemed to have broad support. Even Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who cast the dissenting vote, argued that his concern was not that inflation would continue to escalate. Instead, Mr. Lacker's desire, the minutes noted, was ''to bring it down more rapidly than would be the case'' under the Fed's plan to keep the short term rate it controls at 5.25 percent.
 ''Other than Lacker, no one wanted to hike rates,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs. ''Before the minutes came out we thought there were others who wanted to slap Bernanke in the face with a dissenting vote.''
 After the minutes were released in midafternoon, the bond market rallied modestly. Traders were encouraged that Fed members appeared to be less hawkish on inflation than expected. Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.79 percent, the lowest level since late March. The Dow Jones industrial average rose slightly in the two hours of trading that remained after the minutes were released.
 In speeches since the meeting, Michael H. Moskow, the Chicago regional president, and Richard W. Fisher, the Dallas bank's president, had stoked the anticipation that the minutes would reveal more dissension in the ranks. There was indeed discussion and ''many members thought that the decision to keep policy unchanged at this meeting was a close call,'' the minutes said.
 What tipped the scales was a sort of compromise: Time remained, the minutes said, ''to accumulate more information before judging whether additional firming would be necessary.'' 
 Wall Street forecasters are in disagreement over what the Fed's next step will be. Mr. Hatzius, for example, anticipates a weaker economy and he expects the central bank to keep its key federal funds rate at 5.25 percent until well into next year. ''The data is going to be soft enough to not hike, and then by the end of next year I have the Fed cutting rates to 4 percent,'' he said.
 In contrast, Drew Matus, a senior economist at Lehman Brothers, expects rate increases to resume at the policy makers' next meeting, on Sept. 20. ''We expect inflation to go higher because of a tight labor market and strength in the manufacturing sector,'' he said.
 The policy makers themselves -- the Fed's governors and the presidents of its regional banks -- paid plenty of attention to the case for a weakening economy and a slowing inflation rate. Residential and business investment, hiring, wage growth and consumer spending all slowed in the second quarter, the minutes noted, with higher interest rates and higher energy prices ''likely a restraining influence.''
 Much of that slowing has continued, according to third-quarter data released by the government since the Aug. 8 meeting. Housing prices and home sales, in particular, have continued to weaken, making it more difficult for people to borrow against their homes to support their spending.
 But the minutes also portrayed the policy makers as paying considerable attention to the economy's strengths and to the potential for a rising inflation rate. ''High levels of resource utilization and the high prices for energy and other commodities had the potential to sustain inflation pressures,'' the minutes said.
 Such statements give the policy makers cover to raise rates in the future, although they were uncertain whether this would be necessary. Summing up the discussion about inflation, the minutes said: ''Many participants noted that the extent to which the increase in core inflation so far this year reflected transitory or persistent influences remained unclear.''
 The minutes were more eloquent in discussing the downside risks. 
 ''The slowdown in the housing market, the effects of higher energy prices on household purchasing power, the waning impetus of household wealth effects on consumer spending, and the effects of past policy tightening,'' the minutes said, ''were expected to hold economic growth to below potential over the next six quarters.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Ahead of the Fed''As the Federal Reserve raised its target rate for overnight borrowing to head off inflation, long-term interest rates rose. But now rates are falling, suggesting that investors believe that the Fed may have done enough to quell inflationary pressures.Graph tracks federal funds target rate and yield on 10-year Treasury notes from 2004-2006.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



595 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: A Forecast For a Fork In the Road

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NEARLY six years ago, when most forecasters were still whistling past the graveyard, a small outfit in New York known as the Economic Cycle Research Institute said the 1990's boom was over and made a recession call. With factory orders plummeting and goods piling up in company warehouses, the institute said big job cuts were sure to follow.
 It was a pretty gutsy move at the time. Alan Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, and just about every major Wall Street firm were saying in early 2001 that the Fed's aggressive interest rate cuts would lift consumer spending and prevent a recession. In truth, one had already begun.
 An economist named Geoffrey H. Moore founded the institute in 1996, at the age of 82, after a long career in academia inventing some of the leading indicators that are still used to forecast the economy's direction. He had been a student of one future Fed chairman -- Arthur Burns, a founder of business-cycle analysis; and a teacher of another -- Mr. Greenspan, who took Dr. Moore's Statistics I class at New York University in 1946. A half-century later, Mr. Greenspan told Congress that he closely followed all of Dr. Moore's work (though perhaps not closely enough). 
 Dr. Moore wasn't perfect, but he was quite good. His formulas, which bested Wall Street's rose-colored forecasts by relying on historical patterns, predicted the downturns of both the early 1980's and early 1990's and didn't make an incorrect recession call in either decade. After he died in 2000, his former colleagues predicted the 2001 recession using the indicators he'd created. 
 The economy has now come to one of those turning points that Dr. Moore loved. When this summer began, growth was moving along at such a nice clip that the Fed was trying to slow it down to keep inflation in check. But as Labor Day and the unofficial start of the work year arrive next week, the situation feels very different. 
 The long-feared housing slump is here. Automobile sales have been falling. Gas still costs more than $2.80 in most of the country. The shopping slowdown that had already hit Wal-Mart has spread to more upscale chains like Starbucks and Whole Foods, as Daniel Gross first pointed out in Slate magazine.
 Perhaps most telling, the people at the Economic Cycle Research Institute are getting nervous. ''We're not calling for a recession yet,'' Lakshman Achuthan, the institute's managing director, told me. ''But the risks to the economy have materially increased.''
 ADD his concern to some other indicators starting to flash red, and I think it's reasonable to put something close to 50-50 odds on a recession starting sometime in the next year.
 There are two big reasons you aren't hearing this from Wall Street's experts or, for that matter, the Fed's. The first is that they are all in the optimism business. Investment firms sell stocks and make mergers happen, and doing so is a lot harder if they're also telling people that the economy is about to tank. 
 The Fed, meanwhile, carries enormous prestige, and if its top officials talked about the possibility of a recession, they could spook households and businesses into causing one. Besides, it is part of their job to prevent recessions, so they tend to believe that they are succeeding.
 The second main reason has nothing to do with self-interest. Recessions, often defined as two consecutive quarters in which the economic output declines, are simply hard to call. They are a result not just of economic fundamentals like rising inventories but also of psychology. The moment an executive decides that the economy is slowing and opts not to order a new computer server, she makes a downturn more likely. A homeowner who gives in and finally cuts the asking price on his house does the same.
 Economists often pick up on these subtle shifts, even if they don't put the pieces together. Every three months, the Philadelphia Fed surveys about 50 economists, mostly from Wall Street, and asks for their forecasts, which are almost always sunny. But, fortunately, the Fed also asks them to put a percentage on the chances that the economy will shrink in each of the next five quarters.
 These percentages make up something I named the Anxious Index a few years ago, a term the Fed has since adopted, and the index has been far more prescient than the economists' headline forecasts. Since 1968, when the forecasters have said that there is a 30 percent chance or better that the economy will shrink in the following quarter, it almost always has. (The 1987 stock market crash, which didn't produce a recession, is the one exception.)
 In the most recent survey, released Aug. 14, the economists put only a 10 percent chance on a downturn in the fourth quarter of this year. Further out, however, they were less confident. They said there was a 16 percent risk that the economy would shrink two quarters from now. About 40 percent of the time they have gotten this anxious in the past, a recession has started at some point during the following year.
 This cycle is probably even harder to predict than most, because of the mix of economic strengths (like the healthy balance sheets of banks and companies) and weaknesses (like the iffy balance sheets of consumers). Not even the job market offers a clear picture, which makes the Fed's job trickier. If you look at highly skilled jobs, be they in engineering or general contracting, the economy seems quite strong, as Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has said. But for workers without college degrees or specific training, this looks a lot like a slump. 
 In its annual report on the economic state of the nation, the Census Bureau said yesterday that median household income rose 1.1 percent last year, after adjusting for inflation, but the increase was apparently a result of payments that come from the government and from investments, not from paychecks. The earnings of full-time workers failed to keep up with inflation. 
 At the Economic Cycle Research Institute, the forecasters have noticed that the last six months bear a striking resemblance to two different kinds of periods: the run-up to a gentle slowdown, like those of the mid-1980's and mid-90's, and the run-up to recession. In both situations, consumer expectations fall while interest rates and inventories rise, which has already begun to happen. But the two paths -- slowdown and recession -- historically diverge sometime after the six-month mark. Starting Friday, with the August employment report, we will begin to get a sense of which road we're going to take.
 I hope you enjoyed your summer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Geoffrey Moore

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); US LABOR DAY (62%); INTEREST RATES (55%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%) United States Economy; Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: Economic Cycle Research Institute

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Geoffrey H Moore; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



596 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Bigger China Role in I.M.F.

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29 

 BODY:
In an effort to gain Chinese cooperation on international economic issues, the Bush administration is pushing for China and other developing nations to get more power in the global institution that has played a central role in easing myriad financial crises since the end of World War II.
 But the American-led effort to increase influence at the International Monetary Fund for China -- and for South Korea, Turkey and Mexico, as well -- is being resisted by several countries in Europe, which would lose power to those who would be gaining it.
Administration officials argue that the I.M.F. has to be restructured to reflect the strength of fast-growing countries in Asia, Latin America and parts of Europe so these countries have more of a stake in a 60-year-old international system that oversees potential problems from the huge global flows of currency and capital.
 ''The I.M.F. has been asleep at the wheel in an era when private capital flows have been growing at an unprecedented pace,'' said Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. ''The fund needs to get back to basics to deal with the problems of the 21st century.'' 
 Mr. Adams said that China, like many other fast-developing countries, is ''woefully underrepresented'' at the I.M.F., with a smaller share of the total voting rights than other countries with smaller economies slower growth. The United States wants economic growth and the size of the economy to determine the scale of a nation's voice at the fund.
 The proposals are to be taken up at a meeting of the I.M.F. and the World Bank late in September in Singapore, to be attended by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 At the same time, the administration is urging China to take on a greater role in promoting an open global trading system by helping restart the aborted trade talks sponsored by the World Trade Organization. 
 The I.M.F., along with the World Bank and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the precursor to the W.T.O., grew out of meetings near the end of World War II at Bretton Woods, N.H. They were set up as part of a postwar financial system aimed at avoiding a repetition of the economic crises of the late 1920's and 1930's that helped lead to the war. 
 China is a particular focus of American interests because of the Bush administration's uneasy relationship with the Beijing government and its desire for China to become a ''stakeholder'' in the international system, as American officials put it.
 The United States argues that China has been using its vast foreign exchange reserves, earned from trade surpluses with the United States, to intervene in the markets and keep its currency artificially low to increase its exports, contributing to the loss of American manufacturing jobs.
 Critics of the Bush administration in Congress are calling on it to rebuff China's demand for more power at the I.M.F. until Beijing revalues its currency in relation to the dollar.
 But Mr. Adams and other American officials say that rather than limit China's influence at the I.M.F., they want to increase its role there and make the lending institution a more aggressive monitor of currency manipulation by member nations. 
 ''I would argue that by re-engineering the I.M.F. and giving China a bigger voice,'' Mr. Adams said, ''China will have a greater sense of responsibility for the institution's mission.'' 
 The initial proposed increases for China, South Korea, Turkey and Mexico in voting weight and quotas -- which entitle members to more borrowing in emergencies -- is viewed by Washington as a ''down payment'' for future changes increasing the power of many other countries, including oil-producing nations.
 But objections to the American proposal have come from Belgium, the Netherlands and Scandinavian countries, which might lose proportional voting shares in favor of Spain, Ireland and other rapidly growing nations of Europe. Britain is siding with these smaller countries in resisting the American proposals, officials said.
 Europeans also fear that the overall weight of Europe at the fund, whose managing director has by tradition always been a European, could diminish. They want voting shares to recognize the importance of other factors, like the openness of their economies and the volume of trade between European countries.
 In addition, some poor countries in Africa and elsewhere fear that a reorganized I.M.F. would further reduce their already limited power. So the administration wants to make sure that any changes do not diminish the voting rights these countries have now.
 The American approach on the I.M.F. is seen as somewhat similar to the kind of changes officials want at the United Nations Security Council, where veto power is retained by the club of victors in World War II that are permanent members of the Council: the United States, China, Russia, Britain and France. Washington wants to expand the permanent membership to include Japan and at least one major developing country.
 Voting at the I.M.F. is determined in part by a quota system that calculates how much a country must contribute to the fund and how much it can borrow in emergencies. The United States has 30 percent of the world economy but only a 17 percent share of the quota system.
 Under the American proposal, China and the others would be given a small increase in voting share in the down payment phase and a larger share later. 
 But neither the initial nor the future increases in the shares of these countries would reduce the American share by more than a fraction of a percentage point below the 17 percent level.
 That point is important because an 85 percent vote is required for many I.M.F. matters, including amending bylaws and changing the quota shares. Europe's combined voting share is currently about 23 percent, roughly equal to its share of the world economy. 
 If more power were given to the big developing countries, Europe would lose overall voting share at the I.M.F. by an unspecified amount.
 Britain is supporting the concern of the smaller European countries because its chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, is now the chairman of a committee of European economic and finance ministers and is trying to keep the coalition of European countries together as a bloc, European and American officials said.
 ''The U.S. position is an honest and decent proposal, and everybody in the European community is prepared to step up to the plate,'' a European diplomat said. ''But we need to have more flesh on the bones at the moment.''
 The I.M.F.'s managing director, Rodrigo de Rato, has called for an immediate increase in power for some countries, to be approved at the meeting in Singapore as part of a two-year restructuring program. Earlier this month, he said, ''It is time now to recognize the rise in economic weight'' of China and others.
 The fund has $28 billion in loans outstanding to 74 of its 184 countries, given out over the years to avert defaults, bankruptcies and other crises. In the 1990's, the fund was involved in bailing out Mexico. Late in the decade, it helped rescue Thailand, South Korea and several other Asian countries from insolvency.
 But since then, the fund has had no major crises to deal with, and many recipients of the 1990's bailouts are now sitting on large reserves that can be used to help other countries in the future. The American approach is to enlist these countries in maintaining an international system rather than having them go their own way.
 But because the I.M.F. has not recently had a major crisis, some economists joke that with little to do, board members have the luxury of squabbling among themselves for power over an organization with an ill-defined mission.
 Mr. Adams said that the current benign period has led to complacency, even as global capital flows and the risk of future problems increase. ''Conceptually we're pretty much there,'' he said of the talks on I.M.F. governance. ''But once you start negotiating the actual specifics, it's going to take a little time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson (Photo by Joshua Roberts/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 Timothy D. Adams, a Treasury under secretary, prefers that Beijing have increased responsibility. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Monetary Fund; European Union; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Henry M Jr Paulson; Timothy Adams; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (93%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China; South Korea; Turkey; Mexico; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



597 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Iranian President Meets the Press and Is Challenged 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 29 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad meant to use Tuesday to focus attention on his challenge to the president of the United States: a face-off in a live televised debate.
 But at a freewheeling two-hour news conference, Mr. Ahmadinejad also found himself challenged by local reporters who questioned the government's economic program and its tolerance of a critical press.
The marathon question-and-answer session offered a window into one of the many contradictions of Iranian politics and governance: even as the government grows more authoritarian, it is openly criticized and challenged on its performance.
 This was Mr. Ahmadinejad's fourth news conference since taking office a year ago, and it came just three days before a deadline set by the United Nations Security Council for Iran to suspend its enrichment of uranium. 
 The president used the opportunity to continue Iran's defiant posture toward the West -- the United States and Britain in particular. He made it clear that Iran would not meet the deadline and that it would risk sanctions. 
 ''I announce that I am fully prepared to debate world and international issues with George Bush in a televised debate,'' he said in his prepared remarks. ''Of course, only under the conditions that this debate is broadcast live and without censors, especially for the nation of U.S.'' 
 Although the White House immediately dismissed the challenge as a diversion, Mr. Ahmadinejad's remarks appeared intended to further three objectives: to position Iran as taking the moral high ground by making the United States look like the party unwilling to talk; to drive a wedge between the United States and Britain on one side and France and Germany on the other; and to reiterate Iran's determined refusal to give up its enrichment program. 
 ''Peaceful nuclear energy is the right of the Iranian nation,'' he said, repeating what has become a mantra of his administration. ''The Iranian nation has chosen that based upon international regulations, it wants to use it, and no one can stop it.''
 The news conference veered off into an unruly question-and-answer session, with reporters praising the president, questioning him and some jumping from their seats demanding that their questions be taken. The president politely admonished one reporter, saying he needed to behave better.
 One reporter said he had no question but wanted to recite poetry.
 A reporter for a small newspaper called The Path of the People stood to ask a question and said: ''I was hoping when you arrived I would share my pain with you. Now I have no pain in my heart, only happiness.''
 But as the conference continued, Mr. Ahmadinejad found himself challenged on several issues of local importance, most focusing on the economy or on efforts to silence criticism of his government in the press.
 One reporter said the government's decision to spend billions of dollars to subsidize gasoline amounted to welfare for the rich, an assertion the president disputed. Another said that although the president claimed to support the press, his spokesman sought to have the judiciary investigate critical reporters. 
 ''This contradicts what you said,'' the reporter said into the microphone as Mr. Ahmadinejad listened. The same reporter said the president's interior minister had denied permits to 14 groups wanting to hold demonstrations.
 The president responded quickly, dismissing the complaints, and he tried to move on. But the challenges kept coming -- not one after the other, but more consistently as the confidence in the room seemed to grow.
 ''Food is very expensive to buy,''' said Nasser Alaghbandan, a reporter with the Tehran daily Jam-e-Jam, adding that whenever anyone asked the government spokesman about that issue he responded by citing government sticker prices, not actual prices.
 At first Mr. Ahmadinejad responded with a quip, saying maybe the reporter should go shopping at the same store as his spokesman. He eventually said the rate of inflation was actually lower since he took office, but acknowledged that more needed to be done to bring down some specific costs, especially housing.
 ''I am not happy it increased,'' he said of the cost of housing.
 As the news conference demonstrated, Iran's leadership faces two primary challenges simultaneously, its nuclear program and its economy. On the nuclear front the president was resolute. On the economy, the issue that was the core of his campaign, he cited some accomplishments but asked for patience and more time.
 ''I did not expect in 10, 11, 12 months, I did not expect the economic programs of the government would be tangible everywhere,'' he said, adding that they had been felt by some people.
 The president, in his now trademark cream-colored suit and open collar with no tie, entered the packed conference hall from a side door. He climbed up onto a platform and briefly held his right hand over his head in a sort of hero's greeting to the crowd. 
 He smiled through much of the conference, joked with questioners, and bobbed and weaved around many questions. He avoided answering directly when asked if Iran would be willing to take steps to prove that it was not after a nuclear weapons program, or if it would be willing to have face-to-face talks with the United States.
 But Mr. Ahmadinejad did give some insight into sometimes ambiguous meaning of some of his statements. On Saturday the president said, ''We are not a threat for any country, even the Zionist regime that is the enemy of the countries in the region.'' 
 A reporter asked if that represented a change in position from his earlier call for Israel to be removed from the region. He replied by saying that swatting a baby's hand to stop it from putting its fingers in a fire is not a threat.
 ''We are a peaceful country,'' he said, ''but recognize legitimate defense as our legal right.''
 Iranian officials have also said they will be willing to hold talks on all issues regarding their nuclear program, so long as there are no preconditions. Asked if that meant that the government would be willing to consider, in the course of negotiations, suspending uranium enrichment, the president said: ''We are ready to negotiate. They can put any question to us. Our response will be based on the inalienable rights of Iran.''
 On the topic of debating his American counterpart, Mr. Ahmadinejad's objective seemed as clear as when he sent Mr. Bush a letter last spring asking him to re-examine his foreign policies in the light of his Christian values. 
 While the White House dismissed the letter, and many of Iran's own intellectuals scoffed at it, the Iranian president won points among his growing legion of followers in the region. Political analysts said he was hoping for the same response with the debate proposal.
 ''He is saying we want to talk, but Bush is refusing,'' said Mustafa el-Labbad, an expert in Iranian affairs based in Cairo. ''He wants to embarrass him by saying, 'We are willing to negotiate, but he is refusing.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the end of his fourth news conference since taking office a year ago, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad cheerfully left the podium yesterday and gestured toward a portrait of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who led the revolution that put Iran under the rule of Shiite clerics in 1979. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%) News and News Media; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Michael Slackman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN (72%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



598 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Pressures Increase on Pakistan's Government

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Aug. 29 

 BODY:
The government of Pakistan came under mounting political pressure on Tuesday as rioting continued for the third day in Baluchistan after the killing of a prominent tribal leader, and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz faced a no-confidence vote lodged by an alliance of opposition parties. 
 Four people died in the protests -- three in a bomb explosion and one policeman in clashes with protesters, news agencies reported. 
The opposition failed in its no-confidence vote against Mr. Aziz, a former executive with Citibank, garnering only 136 votes of the 172 needed to pass the measure in the 342-member Parliament. But the vote was seen as an opening maneuver by the opposition alliance in a contentious atmosphere ahead of elections in 2007. 
 Angry speakers condemned the use of military force that led to the death of the 79-year-old tribal leader and former legislator, Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti, in a mountain cave in his native Baluchistan, in the south, and criticized the president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who is also the head of the army.
 Legislators accused the prime minister of corruption, particularly in recent privatization deals, and mismanagement of the economy. More broadly and perhaps more ominously for the government, they focused on the lack of democracy under General Musharraf, who seized power in a military coup in 1999, and the dubious legitimacy of the prime minister, who was appointed to the post in 2004 after a politically safe seat was found for him in Parliament.
 ''The no-confidence vote is not just about the failures of the government of the past four years, but about the policy failures of President Musharraf over the past seven years,'' said the leader of the opposition, Maulana Fazlur Rehman. ''The government should resign.''
 ''It was alleged that past governments and corruption destroyed the country and a new system against corruption and new policies would be introduced, but the present government has also not lagged behind in these crimes,'' he said.
 Mr. Fazlur Rehman also said that the prime minister had failed to curb inflation and that the process of privatization has not been transparent. 
 His partner in a coalition of religious parties, Qazi Hussein Ahmed, weighed in against General Musharraf for his pro-American policies, entertaining guests with dancing girls, using the army against the tribes and people of Pakistan, and imposing a banker from abroad as prime minister. 
 Mr. Ahmed, like others, condemned Mr. Bugti's death. ''Nawab Bugti was a member of Parliament and ruthlessly eliminated,'' he said.
 ''Musharraf is the root of the evil,'' he said. ''Shaukat Aziz is not the main person responsible.'' 
 The opposition has been leveling corruption allegations against Mr. Aziz since the Pakistan Supreme Court rejected the government's bid to sell a majority stake of the state-owned Pakistan Steel Mills, criticizing the process as hasty. 
 The allegations are not baseless, said Shahid Hasan Siddiqui, an economist based in Karachi. He added that Mr. Aziz' handling of a sudden sugar shortage earlier this year, a stock market crash in 2005 and the privatization process were questionable and merited investigation.
 Mr. Aziz told Parliament that the privatization process had been in accordance with international practice and that the no-confidence resolution was based on ''false allegations, frivolous and selective use of distorted information designed to mislead the nation.''
 ''My heart and hands are clean, my strength has been transparency and integrity, and this was an attempt to malign it,'' he said at a news conference just after the vote. 
 He added that the vote showed discipline and unity among the government coalition, which has appeared fractious in recent months.
 Underscoring the tempestuousness of the day was the continuing violence in the south in reaction to the death on Saturday of Mr. Bugti, who for more than 50 years had dominated the Baluchi political scene. Some 10,000 mourners turned out for prayers for Mr. Bugti at the stadium in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan.
 Townspeople observed a citywide strike and shops were shut and the streets deserted. A policeman was killed in a clash with rioters in Quetta and a bomb exploded in a town called Hub to the south, killing three people.
 Tensions remained high as the government delayed handing over Mr. Bugti's body to his relatives, saying that he was buried in the rubble of the cave and that it would take days to dig him out. Yet the bodies of the six soldiers who died in the explosion were retrieved and buried Monday, said the military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan. 
 General Sultan contradicted earlier claims by the government that they had not known that Mr. Bugti was in the cave, telling journalists at a news briefing on Tuesday that members of the law enforcement agencies had entered the cave to negotiate Mr. Bugti's surrender. 
 ''The government had intended to take him into custody,'' General Sultan said. ''Every effort was being made to apprehend him alive.''
 An explosion caused the cave to collapse when the law enforcement officers were inside, he said.
 There is widespread skepticism over the government's version of events. ''I don't believe it was an accident,'' Agha Shahid Bugti, a senator and Mr. Bugti's son-in-law, said by telephone from Quetta. ''With all the weapons and equipment America has given the Pakistani Army, it is not difficult for them to know the precise location of someone. It was a well planned operation to remove him from the scene.'' 
 ''We think they are afraid of the public backlash,'' he said. ''The people knew Bugti as a political leader, and a father figure, so I don't think things will get easy for the government.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The police fired tear gas yesterday to disperse crowds in Quetta that protested the killing of a tribal leader. (Photo by Asif Hassan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); RIOTS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); COUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Demonstrations and Riots; Politics and Government

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti; Shaukat (Prime Min) Aziz; Carlotta Gall; Salman Masood

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Pakistan; Baluchistan (Pakistan)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



599 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Census Figures Show Scant Improvement in City Poverty Rate

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Sewell Chan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Despite New York City's economic rebound from 9/11 and the national recession, the proportion of city residents who live below the federal poverty level -- about one in five -- has not budged in the last five years, according to census figures released yesterday. 
 The stagnant poverty rate, coming at a time of relative prosperity, suggests that wealth has not trickled down to the city's poorest, and has raised concerns among experts and policy makers, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has singled out reducing poverty as a goal of his second term. By one measure, poverty dipped slightly from 2004 to 2005, but Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that the decline was ''statistically not significant.''
The new data on income and employment were collected separately, in the Current Population Survey and the new American Community Survey, and the Census Bureau cautioned against extended comparisons and analyses with surveys from earlier years. That left even more latitude than usual for interpretation and ambiguity. 
 The census statistics also show that New York is the only state in which both the median household income and the poverty rate surpassed the national average last year, an anomaly that suggested growing inequality in some categories and reflected vast disparities within the metropolitan area itself.
 Once again, Manhattan recorded the biggest income gap of any county in the country, although the chasm narrowed slightly since 2000. The top fifth of earners reported making $330,244 -- about 41 times more than the $8,019 of the bottom fifth. 
 Among the nation's largest counties, Somerset in New Jersey ranked fourth in median household income ($88,532), and Morris, Nassau, Rockland and Suffolk were all among the top 10. The Bronx was third-lowest ($29,228) and remained the poorest urban county in the country. More than half of Bronx households headed by a woman and including young children live below the poverty level. 
 No city in metropolitan New York made the nation's top 10 in median income, but several were among its poorest. Newark, at $30,711, ranked seventh from the bottom, just below New Orleans, among the biggest cities. Buffalo was third from the bottom. Among America's smaller cities, Camden, N.J., at $18,007, had the lowest median income in the nation and the highest proportion of poor people -- 44 percent. 
 At the same time, New Jersey's median income was again the highest of any state's. Maryland edged Connecticut for second place. New York ranked 15th. 
 Since 2000, median income has declined in all three states. Only two counties in the metropolitan area -- Cape May in New Jersey and Sullivan in New York -- recorded significant gains. Across the country, only two states recorded significant gains. 
 In 2005, according to the American Community Survey, the poverty rate was 13.8 percent in New York State, 8.3 percent in Connecticut and 8.7 percent in New Jersey. In the city, the overall poverty rate remained at just over 19 percent, but compared with a year earlier, it appeared to have increased among the elderly and decreased among children younger than 18. In Queens, poverty rates declined. 
 Statewide, New York ranked 17th in the share of children who are poor (more than 19 percent), and was tied with Texas for 8th in the share of elderly who are poor (nearly 13 percent). 
 In New York City, median household income -- the middle number on the scale -- remained about the same since 2004, at $43,434. But the mean, or average, income rose, suggesting greater gains among the well-to-do. Manhattanites recorded the biggest income gains. About 5 percent of households in the city reported incomes of $200,000 or more; 13 percent reported making less than $10,000. 
 ''With median income in New York City you have to be careful,'' said Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group. ''We've been seeing big income gains in a few very wealthy industries, and a few studies have suggested that the gains are not coursing through the entire city economy.'' 
 Given the steady influx of poor immigrants, he expressed surprise that the poverty rate was unchanged. 
 ''The city has been a fairly good place for the foreign-born to come and improve their fortunes,'' Mr. Malanga said. ''However, even as they do that we have a steady stream of foreign-born who come here and begin their life in poverty -- a constant replenishment of the ranks of impoverished foreigners.''
 He estimated that ''about 30 percent basically live below the poverty level their first year in New York,'' but that many ''are finding their way out of poverty in 5 to 10 years.'' 
 But he added that the competition from immigrants for lower-paying jobs also meant ''that people who are here without a high school diploma are finding it even more difficult to pull themselves out of poverty.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg seemed to concur. ''New York City is a city where more and more people want to come,'' he said. ''Some people that come, come with wealth. Some people that come, come with simply aspirations. And we are an immigrant community. We're always going to have people coming in who have come here leaving everything back where they came from except what's inside them. And that's a way to start up the ladder.''
 The mayor, whose commission on reducing poverty is expected to report next month, said: ''You cannot go and make real progress if you just worry about opinion and say, 'I've got to do everything for everybody.' That's just not possible. What we're trying to do is to focus on groups.''
 Mark Levitan, senior policy analyst for the Community Service Society, a liberal research and advocacy group, said the new figures were ''telling us that we have growing inequality -- income is rising in the middle of the distribution, but it's not trickling down. We've gone from a jobless recovery to a recovery where wage increases can't match the rate of inflation.''
 Mining the Current Population Survey, Dr. Levitan said he found that the poverty rate among households with children headed by a woman, which had declined from 56 percent a decade ago to 39 percent in 2001, had risen again to 49 percent -- an increase not evident from the American Community Survey figures.
 What he could conclude with absolute certainty, he said, was that the poverty rate is ''stagnant overall.''
 Trudi Renwick, senior economist with the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal watchdog group, agreed. ''It's flat, or down only very slightly in the city, despite tremendous economic growth,'' she said.
 ''We have a picture -- and you can place all kinds of value judgments on it -- of stability with a lot of these numbers,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the Department of City Planning's population division. ''That can be seen as encouraging, and discouraging.'' 
 Yesterday's release of the American Community Survey, an annual version of the census long-form questionnaire, also plumbed employment patterns. 
 It found that in New York, women earned 79.4 percent of what men did, above the national average and slightly higher than in New Jersey and Connecticut. 
 New York is tied with Colorado for first in the highest proportion of people working in the information industry (3.5 percent). Connecticut ranks first in the proportion of people in management, business and finance (16.3 percent).


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Slipping Household Income''Mirroring a national trend, many counties in the New York metropolitan area saw a decrease in median household income from 2000 to 2005, according to new census data released yesterday.Median household incomeCounties with change that is not statistically significant, or are within the margin of error, are shown in italics.CONNECTICUTFairfield2000* -- $76,3412005 -- $71,633PERCENT CHANGE -- -6.2%New Haven2000* -- 57,1362005 -- 53,591PERCENT CHANGE -- -6.2NEW JERSEYBergen2000* -- $76,3322005 -- $71,394PERCENT CHANGE -- -6.5%Essex2000* -- 52,5842005 -- 49,460PERCENT CHANGE -- -5.9Hudson2000* -- 47,1432005 -- 44,440PERCENT CHANGE -- -5.7Middlesex2000* -- 71,8922005 -- 68,080PERCENT CHANGE -- -5.3Morris2000* -- 90,4882005 -- 84,010PERCENT CHANGE -- -7.2Passaic2000* -- 57,5762005 -- 51,016PERCENT CHANGE -- -11.4Union2000* -- 64,7472005 -- 62,591PERCENT CHANGE -- -3.3NEW YORKBronx2000* -- $32,3052005 -- $29,228PERCENT CHANGE -- -9.5%Brooklyn2000* -- 37,5982005 -- 37,332PERCENT CHANGE -- -0.7Nassau2000* -- 84,2752005 -- 80,293PERCENT CHANGE -- -4.7Manhattan2000* -- 55,0252005 -- 55,973PERCENT CHANGE -- +1.7Orange2000* -- 60,9082005 -- 62,951PERCENT CHANGE -- +3.4Putnam2000* -- 84,5662005 -- 81,076PERCENT CHANGE -- -4.1Queens2000* -- 49,6542005 -- 48,093PERCENT CHANGE -- -3.1Staten Island2000* -- 64,3962005 -- 63,023PERCENT CHANGE -- -2.1Rockland2000* -- 79,5262005 -- 78,649PERCENT CHANGE -- -1.1Suffolk2000* -- 76,3872005 -- 77,109PERCENT CHANGE -- +0.9Westchester2000* -- 74,3912005 -- 71,800PERCENT CHANGE -- -3.5*1999 income in 2005 dollars.(Sources by U.S. Census Bureau
 Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POOR POPULATION (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); POVERTY RATES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); RANKINGS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); CHILDREN (66%) Income

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%) Census Bureau

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Sam Roberts; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area ; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



600 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: One Year After Katrina, the Struggle Continues

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 One year ago, Hurricane Katrina crossed the Louisiana coastline and changed us forever. As the storm shattered our lives and communities, New Yorkers were among the first people who rushed to our aid. 
 Few could imagine that four years after the World Trade Center attacks, two of the greatest cities in the world would share a unique appreciation for each other -- as we became bound by two of the most devastating events in our nation's history.
Just as Louisianans arrived in Manhattan soon after the tragedy in 2001, New Yorkers landed in south Louisiana last August. 
 In one of the darkest hours of our state's proud history, we turned to New York, and its people responded with compassion, strength and generosity. 
 I have accepted, on behalf of all the people of Louisiana, America's astonishing generosity. I continue to express our immense gratitude for all that has been done for us. 
 We thank everyone who has contributed to the Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation, provided aid to our people and dispatched resources and first responders to our communities.
 I ask the good people of New York not to forget us as we continue our recovery. Come visit us and experience our unique culture. Lend us your talents, and always keep us in your hearts and prayers. 

Kathleen Babineaux Blanco
Governor
Baton Rouge, La., Aug. 28, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''A City's Future, and a Dead Man's Lost Past'' (''The Katrina Year'' series, front page, Aug. 27):
 After reading the latest chapters of life after Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast, one can only wonder how much more diminished and impoverished our national pride, sense of security and care for our fellow citizens can fall. 
 It was not so long ago that Franklin D. Roosevelt and Dwight D. Eisenhower imagined, planned for and successfully executed enormously complex relief initiatives. 
 Their administrations would not have tolerated the pitiful and impotent efforts of the last year, nor would their followers have tolerated the lack of moral and civic clarity that plagues government today.
 The sad performance we have witnessed is less the result of Katrina's devastation than it is a failure of will, expectation and leadership at all levels.

D. C. Montague
Chattanooga, Tenn., Aug. 28, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''A New Orleans Home Is Reborn, With Grit and Persistence'' (''The Katrina Year'' series, front page, Aug. 23):
 If the future of New Orleans ''will be grounded in the stubborn drive of people like Artie Folse and Tonja Osborne,'' then the city is truly in real trouble. 
 How many other couples have a business that generates $50,000 a year and ''allows a flexible schedule,'' along with a family-owned home nearby in which they can live? 
 That Mr. Folse and Ms. Osborne ''got to work'' without waiting for government help is commendable. But the city cannot possibly recover if the lights are not turned on, the schools and hospitals are not open and other public services we all take for granted are not operating. 

Gregory D. Squires
Washington, Aug. 23, 2006

The writer is chairman of the sociology department, George Washington University.

To the Editor:
 ''A Year After the Storm, Business Remains Unusual'' (news article, Aug. 25), detailing the trials of small-business owners here in New Orleans, astounded me by how many businesses and owners I recognized or frequent. 
 It helps to know that others are even aware of the situation and progress in New Orleans and Louisiana. Continue the good reporting on our region. The best to your lovely city and state. 

Henri Andre Fourroux III
New Orleans, Aug. 25, 2006

To the Editor:
 The article about the economic struggles of New Orleans businesses didn't mention a major government-imposed barrier to their survival. The new bankruptcy laws, which went into effect after Hurricane Katrina hit, preclude people who held mortgages or loans from writing off old debts and starting anew. 
 Many New Orleanians, shopkeepers included, are making payments on homes and businesses that are now demolished, while trying to resuscitate their lives. 
 In a particularly heartless move, Congress refused pleas to exempt the residents of the storm-struck region from the onerous provisions of the new bankruptcy code. 
 As a native New Orleanian, I find the suffering imposed by political callousness, procrastination and ineptitude more anguishing than the original storm surge.

Christie Theriot Woodfin
Atlanta, Aug. 25, 2006

To the Editor:
 What a shock to see that there are still piles of rubbish on the streets of New Orleans one year after Hurricane Katrina. 
 The next time President Bush gets the urge to clear brush from his Crawford, Tex., ranch, maybe he should go to New Orleans and help remove trash. 

Tom Olson
Doha, Qatar, Aug. 29, 2006

To the Editor:
 It is a disgrace that elected officials from both sides of the aisle are using the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina as an opportunity for political posturing (''Anniversary Brings Out the Politics of Commemoration,'' news article, Aug. 28).
 Perhaps the situation in New Orleans, Mississippi and elsewhere would be less dire if we stopped trying to bolster political careers and instead supported the lives, health, security and well-being of people in need.
 I do my best to help my loved ones, as well as strangers, in the areas struck by the hurricane by giving time, money and any other resource I may have available. 
 It is unfortunate that those who should be leading by example demonstrate only selfishness. It is obvious that this very example is what predominates the rebuilding efforts, or lack thereof. 

Brittany Turner
Saugerties, N.Y., Aug. 28, 2006

To the Editor:
 Yes, New Orleans continues to be a mess and its sensible renewal problematic. Yet one hears little about whether the city should be fully rebuilt at all. 
 In fact, it should not, for its physical future is questionable. The marshes, swamps and bayous to the south of New Orleans are being eroded away, so that the south side of the city will likely be open to the Gulf of Mexico by 2050. 
 Even with the best of dikes and seawalls, how could it withstand, say, a hurricane like last year's with no other natural protection?
 If New Orleans is to be rebuilt, it should be strictly industrial -- serving the huge amount of goods that will continue to go through its port -- and built for that purpose only. 

Richard W. Stanley
Dellwood, Minn., Aug. 27, 2006

To the Editor:
 ''A Year After Katrina Disaster, Bush Still Fights for 9/11 Image'' (front page, Aug. 28) refers to President Bush's image ''after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, bullhorn in hand, feet planted firmly in the rubble of the twin towers,'' contrasting it with his careless flyover in Air Force One after Katrina. 
 I question the comparison. 
 In 2001, Mr. Bush waited three days before making his way to New York. The American people desperately needed him to be presidential after 9/11; we helped make him so, even as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and countless unheralded Americans did the truly brave work of relief and recovery.
 President Bush and his cold, shrewd team of advisers have always had a tin ear for citizens in need. 

Colleen Kyle
Deerfield, Mass., Aug. 28, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sam Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); HISTORY (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Small Business; Bankruptcies

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (78%) Colleen Kyle; Richard W Stanley; Brittany Turner; Tom Olson; Christie Theriot Woodfin; Henri Andre III Fourroux; Gregory D Squires; D C Montague; Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Mississippi; Louisiana; New Orleans (La); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

 
